Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the first quarter 2011 Varian Medical Systems earnings conference call.
My name is Kara and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question and answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And I would now like to turn the call over to your host for the day Mr.
Spencer Sias Vice President of Inventor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and welcome to Varian Medical Systems’ conference call for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011.
With me are Tim Guertin President and CEO; Elisha Finney CFO; and Tai Chen our Corporate Controller.
Tim and Elisha will summarize our results and we’ll take your questions following the presentation.
To simplify our discussion unless otherwise stated all references to the quarter or years are fiscal quarters and fiscal years.
Quarterly comparisons are for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 versus the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
Annual comparisons are for fiscal 2011 versus fiscal 2010.
All results are for continuing operations which exclude the sales and research instruments portions of XL.
Net order and backlog comparisons for the company also exclude a $62 million proton order that was booked in the fourth quarter of 2009 and canceled in the first quarter of 2010.
Please be advised that this presentation and discussion contains forward-looking statements.
Our use of words and phrases such as outlook could should believe opportunity can estimate and similar expressions are intended to identify those statements which represent our current judgment on future performance or other future matters.
While we believe them to be reasonable based on information currently available to us these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of the important risks relating to our business are described in our first quarter earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements in this presentation and discussion because of new information future events or otherwise.
And now here is Tim.
Thanks Spencer.
Good afternoon and welcome everybody.
Today we are reporting our results of the first quarter of fiscal 2011 with strong growth in margins and earnings and solid gains in revenues.
We had double-digit net order gains for our x-ray products business and moderate growth for oncology systems which great well in most regions with the notable exception of Japan.
Revenues rose by 7% or 8% on a constant currency basis with a remarkable 62% coming from international regions.
Our operating earnings increased by 15% reaching nearly 24% of sales.
Net earnings for the company increased by 22% and earnings per diluted share rose by 27%.Our quarter-ending backlog expanded by 10% reaching a record $2.2 billion.
As discussed in our last call we'll talk about net orders within each business unit rather than for the company as a whole.
Cash flow from operations for the quarter was $138 million and we ended the quarter with a record $704 million in cash and cash equivalents.
All in all we're in excellent financial shape and our global outlook continues to be optimistic.
I'll focus now on orders and operations in each of our businesses.
Oncology systems first quarter net orders totaled $459 million up 5% with a 20% growth in North America and a 6% decline in the overall international market.
Oncology achieved double-digit order growth in North America for the third consecutive quarter with the help of new products higher unit volumes and some recovery in the healthcare market from the year-ago periods.
European net orders grew in double digits with particular strength in France Russia Denmark Austria UK and the Middle East.
Orders in Asia fell sharply because of a $45 million decline in Japan which has returned to more normal spending patterns following a two-year stimulus program that ended last March.
Excluding Japan orders in Asia were up in double digits.
As our longtime followers know this business typically experiences regional lumpiness but the underlying global need for high quality cost effective cancer treatment capacity is tremendous.
We remain confident in the overall strength of this global market and our business.
From the product perspective TrueBeam was again the leading growth driver for oncology systems.
As of the end of the quarter we had more than 170 orders for this state-of-the-art radiotherapy radiosurgery platform since its introduction in the second quarter of last year.
It comprised more than 30% of global unit orders for high-energy machines during the quarter and it represented a majority of the high-energy machines ordered in North America during the period.
Installations of TrueBeams are proceeding smoothly with more than 40 installations complete or in progress.
As clinicians gain experience with this new system we are seeing tremendous treatment possibilities.
One center has already treated more than 220 patients most of them with hypofraction radiosurgery for paraspinal lesions.
Another center is routinely performing normal time-consuming radiosurgery on up to 10 patients per day using RapidArc and high-intensity mode to deliver doses quickly and precisely.
In one such case involving metastatic cancer this medical team took just six minutes to complete delivery of an 18 Gray radiosurgical dose to a spinal lesion.
RapidArc upgrades also contributed to the oncology order growth during the quarter as more clinics moved to modernize existing equipment to streamline treatment processes and increase their capacity to help more patients.
Our service business continued to grow and our relations with our customers are excellent.
I'm pleased to report in the newly-published 2010 IMV customer satisfaction survey Varian received the top ranking in seven measures out of eight measures of manufacturer's performance.
This included service system installation training documentation and overall manufacturer performance.
We also got top marks in our system performance and both of our field service and software engineers received the top rankings.
Turning to x-ray products we're seeing excellent acceptance of our products and we believe we're seeing a recovery in the global imaging industry.
This was a record first quarter for x-ray products which grew net orders by 13% sales by 22% and operating income by 34%.
The growth in this business was driven by higher demand for x-ray tubes as well as our flat panel detectors for faster more cost effective filmless imaging.
Shipments of our dynamic panels for fluoroscopic and CT imaging were up strongly and we believe we gained share with our new rad panels for digital radiography.
Our new rad panels address what we believe to be the largest and most promising growth area for the global flat panel market.
We have successfully continued to develop this product line and build relationships with important new customers who can drive future growth.
Growth in our tube business was driven by broad-based demand for tubes and CT mammography gentle radiography and industrial imaging systems.
Record shipments as well as improved quality costs performance and x-ray tubes contributed to a record gross margin for this business.
Improved market conditions with good execution and a great product line give us reason for continued optimism about the potential for strong growth in this business.
In fact subsequent to the close of the quarter we executed a new three-year approximately $450 million contract for Varian to supply medical imaging subcomponents to Toshiba Medical Systems for integration into diagnostic imaging equipment for the global market.
Orders will be booked over the period of the agreement.
We are very proud to announce this contract as it marks the latest chapter in our 30-plus year relationship with Toshiba Medical Systems.
Over the years our two companies have developed a close cooperation at all levels of the business; we have complimentary design engineering and manufacturing capabilities and work well together to realize new products and improve existing ones.
Switching now to our other category we reached some important milestones in our SIP (Security and Inspection) products business and our particle therapy business.
This category generated combined net orders of $22 million for the quarter up from the year-ago quarter when we reversed a $62 million order in Sweden for a proton therapy system.
Excluding the reversal net orders for the other category were even with the year-ago period.
We were unsuccessful in our appeal at Skandia and have dropped further litigation in this matter in order to put this behind us in order to focus on some very positive developments.
Earlier this month we announced that we received FDA 510((k) clearance for the Varian Proton Therapy System making it the first working system capable of delivering precise intensity-modulated proton therapy or IMPT using pencil-beam scanning technology.
This means we have product-level clearance on our proton system so customers will not seek site-specific clearances.
The benefit for our customers is that this may make it easier for them to secure financing for their products and they can get up and running quicker after their systems are commissioned.
Our IMPT technology is already at work at a center in Germany and construction on the Scripps proton therapy center in San Diego is moving ahead rapidly.
Base plates for the new gantries at Scripps are already in place and you could actually watch the progress of the project on live web-cam at www.advanced particletherapy.com.
Meanwhile our first cyclotron has been manufactured and moved into our test cell.
We're continuing to pursue other projects and we hope to book an order or two this year.
In our security businesses you will recall that we expressed frustration in our last call about repeated challenges to a large tender order award for U.S.
customs and boarder protection.
I am pleased to say the appeals were dropped subsequent to the close of the first quarter and we were instructed by CBP to continue to process our award so this month we have booked a $21 million order for five of our turn-key Intellex cargo screening systems.
These systems which will be installed on the U.S.
border on the next 12-18 months will incorporate our latest technology from materials discrimination and detection of radioactive materials.
During the quarter we received an order for the world's first high-energy high-speed x-ray source that makes it possible to identify hazardous materials on trains traveling at up to 20 km per hour.
We believe the ability to scan moving cargo on trains or trucks has the potential to significantly expand market acceptance of our security products.
Automated materials discrimination is now becoming a standard requirement for cargo screening systems and we are leaders in this area with patented technology that can contribute to our growth.
And now here's Elisha.
Thanks Tim and hello everyone.
While Tim has already covered net orders I want to briefly talk about the constant currency growth rate for the quarter.
Oncology grew net orders by 5% in dollars or 6% in constant currency.
Given these significant quarter-over-quarter strengthening of the Dollar against the Euro oncology's European net orders growth rate was 17% significantly higher than the reported 10% growth rate in dollars.
While the weaker Dollar versus the Yen helped us in Asia total international oncology orders were down 6% in dollars and down 4% on a constant currency basis.
First quarter revenues increased 7% to $580 million with constant currency growth of 8%.
Not surprisingly oncology systems posted a 5% increase in revenues consistent with moderate order growth in the year-ago period.
x-ray products posted a gain of 22% and revenues from businesses from the “other” category decreased by $4 million or 19%.
The first quarter growth margin for the company rose nearly one and a half points to 45% with record levels achieved in oncology and in x-ray products.
Oncology systems gross margin increased nearly one point to 47.3% due primarily to higher TrueBeam shipments and software upgrades along with improved installation and warranty costs.
x-ray product gross margin rose 1 point to 42.3% due to record revenues and improved cost of quality for our x-ray tube.
First quarter SG&amp;A expenses were $91 million or 16% of revenues and first quarter R&amp;D expenses were $39 million or 7% of revenues.
On a combined basis operating expenses were down slightly from the year-ago period as a percentage of revenue.
Moving down the income statement first quarter operating earnings of $137 million were up one and a half points as a percentage of revenues to 23.6%.
Depreciation and amortization totaled $12 million for the quarter.
The effective tax rate was 29.6% for the quarter down four points from the year-ago quarter and down 1 point from what we had forecasted due largely to the retroactive lien statement of the 2010 R&amp;D tax credit.
For fiscal year 2011 we continued to estimate that the tax rate will be somewhere in the range of 31-32%.
Fully diluted shares outstanding decreased significantly from the year-ago quarter to $121 million due largely to the accelerated share repurchase program that was executed last August.
Diluted earnings per share rose 27% to $0.80.
Turning to the balance sheet we ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $704 million debt of $23 million and stockholder's equity of $1.5 billion.
With strong global collections DSO for the quarter improved by 6 days to 78.
First quarter cash flow from operations was $138 million with most of it coming from net earnings and strong A/R collection.
Another primary source of cash was $77 million in proceeds from employee stock option exercises.
Primary uses of cash were $23 million for capital expenditures and $20 million for repayment of short-term bank borrowing.
Because of the accelerated repurchase program for approximately 3.8 million shares that was executed last August and that will completed by late February we did not use cash for stock repurchases in the quarter.
At the end of the quarter we had another 4.5 million shares remaining under our repurchase authorization that extends to the end of fiscal 2011.
Now I'll turn it back to Tim for the outlook.
Thanks Elisha.
We continue to believe that annual revenues for fiscal 2011 will grow 10-11% over the fiscal 2010 total.
Given our improved margins and the strength of our earnings in the first quarter we now believe that net earnings per diluted share for fiscal year 2011 could grow to a range of $3.39 to $3.45.
For the second quarter of fiscal 2011 we believe the total company revenues could increase by about 9-10% over the prior year period and that net earnings per diluted share could be in the range of $0.83 to $0.86.
And we're now ready for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from the line of Sean Lavin with Lazard Partners.
Please proceed.
Taking our questions?  Yes.
Hi Sean.
I guess to start I was wondering if you could go over the Japan (inaudible) package in a little more detail and tell us maybe how long it was in effect how much of a benefit you got in orders in the past and whether it was only in the March quarter or if it was an all-year thing and when exactly it ended.
It was a radiotherapy stimulus so other kinds of medical equipment were not necessarily affected.
It lasted for two years and it ended last March.
So actually if you look at quarter 3 and quarter 4 of last year and quarter 1 of this year we've actually increased quarter-over-quarter so we've actually got more orders in Japan this quarter than we got in the last two quarters.
It was just that this was first quarter where you saw that fall-back to that huge number that we had in the year-ago quarter.
Actually if you look at oncology systems and you exclude Japan from last year and from this year oncology systems grew by over 17%.
It was just a huge comp $40 million in that one quarter.
And we're glad to have had it because quarter one of last year was not a great quarter in North America we were down and Japan came through and kind of rescued us but now we had that big comp we had to compensate for this year.
And then for Elisha how sustainable is the margin expansion you saw in this quarter?  Yeah well Sean we were obviously very very pleased to see record performance in both oncology and in x-ray products but as we always say one quarter does not make a trend.
The good news is that the TrueBeam pricing continues to be very good and we are seeing overall decreases in installation and warranty across the board so I would think that those tend to be sustainable.
Product mix is something that is a little more variable.
We saw very strong software upgrades in the quarter that may or may not repeat.
Again x-ray products very strong performance with volume and with quality cost improvement.
So for both of those businesses looking out at the full fiscal year we think they will see gross margin improvement of somewhere close to a point year-over-year.
So very good performance by both.
Yeah I think from my perspective the nice thing here was that a huge portion of our business was internationally and normally that would pull us down but we had the opposite effect so that was very nice to see.
There's just been some really good performance on the part of sales teams in order to get customers interested in our newest generation of products our premium products and also at the same time good cost measures inside our operations.
So altogether I think we just had some nice execution that really helped us this quarter.
Then a question I've started to get is that I think you supply Hologic with tubes and I was wondering if they see a significant ramp in 3-D mammography how meaningful a benefit can that be to you?  Well you know we do supply materials.
I haven't asked Bob to actually estimate that.
The important effect for Bob's x-ray tube business is in CT tubes.
I think that's the strongest and most important part and the tubes that we're providing are not CT tubes for mammography.
So it would have a positive effect but I don't think it would have a really significant positive effect for them.
One last quick one.
What was the yearly size of your last contract with Toshiba?  It was announced 3 years ago Sean.
I believe the increase in the total value is somewhere right around 40%.
Alright perfect thank you very much.
Mm-hm.
And your question comes from the line of Amit Bhalla with Citi Group.
Please proceed.
Hi good afternoon.
Hi Amit.
I want to follow up on this margin question.
Elisa I understand that one quarter doesn't make a trend but can you take a minute and break out the contribution from each of these pieces that has contributed to higher margins this quarter versus last quarter and last year so we get a little bit more of an understanding of that benefit?  Well I'll take a stab at that question.
I don't know that I have every level of detail quarter-over-quarter year-over-year that you might be looking for.
Clearly oncology was up 79 basis points quarter-over-quarter.
Really product mix has always been the biggest driver so TrueBeam and pricing and software upgrades are by far the biggest driver in that margin improvement and again we get a lot of variation in product mix quarter-over-quarter but the improvement in installation and warranty and the TrueBeam pricing I believe should be sustainable as we go forward.
In any given quarter these geographies can also impact margin and as Tim said we're very pleased to see this improvement despite the fact that international sales were almost 60% of the total this quarter so it's a very good performance.
x-ray products -  by far the biggest driver there is volume.
and if we continue to see the volume that we have seen I would think that is sustainable.
As we've been talking about on the flat panel side the radiographic – we are seeing as these panels get higher volume the pricing does start to come down as we would have expected.
We are going to be relocating a factory through Dipix this year which may impact margins slightly but again for the full year I think we should see about a 1-point improvement hold in both businesses.
And on TrueBeam I think that last quarter we talked a little bit about some delivery pushouts and install times and I think you're highlighting that some of that is normalized? Can you quantify what your TrueBeam install times are today versus last quarter?  Well this really actually doesn't refer to TrueBeam specifically because TrueBeam in the quarter still represented less than 5% of total oncology revenues.
So it's still in terms of sales pretty minor.
We're seeing significant improvement in Trilogy and iX and in our standard Clinac iX  as we just chip away quarter by quarter and our getting improvement in warranty and installation.
I spoke recently to one of the service managers who is responsible for installs for TrueBeam and he was very pleased with his progress on bringing TrueBeam installs in and getting some good times.
I think we're getting to normal levels on that product very quickly.
It might have taken longer so it's a good question but I think they're bringing them under control nicely.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Amit Hazan with Gleacher and Company.
Thanks.
Good afternoon guys.
Hi Amit.
I want to stick with the guidance just for a second off of the recent questions because I think I'm trying to understand the extent to which you have conservatism built in You talked about 50% basis point improvement gross profit last quarter so that's clearly gone up to 100% to 100 basis points.
I'm guessing operation margin improvement is now expected as well.
If you could help us out with that and specifically I'm looking at the next 12 months and thinking your geographic mix is going to go back to a U.S.
benefit which is obviously going to help you.
TrueBeam like you said is only 5% of sales right now and that's clearly going to increase.
Help me understand why operating margins should stay anywhere near flat as we go through the next few quarters.
Well if you go through the guidance Amit for the full year yes the gross margin will go up about a point.
And remember our comparables got a little tougher in the second half when the business really started to come back last year.
But as we said we expected R&amp;D and SG&amp;A on a combined basis should go up as a percentage of sales.
Each should go up slightly and net-net the operating margin improvement should be somewhere around half a point for the full fiscal year.
Now it's early admittedly and we hope you're right that with North America and TrueBeam and if all of these things pan out but at this point based on expected delivery dates and what we see in backlogs -  Currencies.
and (inaudible) all of those things.
It's our best guesstimate.
I'll add that you know R&amp;D was a little lower than it might have been in the first quarter and as a timing issue I expect to see more R&amp;D.
I think Elisha mentioned that but just to put some particular focus there.
We're trying to increase our R&amp;D quite a bit this year and we have some great projects to invest in and so you'll see that rise as well.
Alright that's great.
I just want to get back to orders for a second.
I'm looking at my model and at least in my model the comp that you had for your all-U.S.
orders was about 9% in constant currency which doesn't seem that great to me and I realize Japan was a big part of that last year but you guys are obviously a global business and I'm trying to understand off of that kind of comp where else there might have been weakness and if and what you saw in Europe specifically Western Europe where we're seeing more of the austerity measures and whether you can comment on whether that had any impact or whether you're seeing any changes in those countries?  You know I think I mentioned there were a lot of Northern European countries that did well In the U.K.
and the Middle East we did well.
I would say we were slightly off in Spain and Italy and Latin America Q1 is never a big deal so that wasn't any help but it wasn't much of a hurt either.
This quarter is a story of Japan.
If you think of the oncology business Japan was $65 million or something like that in the year-ago first quarter and was by $22 million this quarter.
$40 million is – that swing - nearly 10% of their orders.
They just couldn't - and despite as I indicated if you take Japan out of the equation in both quarters they were up over 17%.
So this is really a story of Japan.
Everyone else is in the weeds.
Every single region Amit with the exception of Asia was up for the quarter and that held for both oncology and x-ray products.
And I'll just mention TrueBeam is not improved in some of our international locations yet for sale and it's doing well in the locations where it is and it hasn't yet even had an impact in those territories.
So as we get those approvals and of course those are up to governmental bodies so I have no way of predicting when that will happen but hopefully sometime before the end of the 21<sup>st</sup> century we'll get those and then we can sell TrueBeam and I think that will really be helping us in Asian territories as well.
Final question from me just a followup on that.
So we essentially saw 6% growth on a 1% comps.
The comps are getting much tougher and starting in the March quarter is this a business right now that as you think of the next 12 18 months just to keep it general because I know you don't like to give specific guidance on orders that is going to grow orders in the double digits?  We're just going to have to see.
Clearly Europe people have been worried about Europe not performing and we've been reading the earnings releases of other companies in terms of what they've seen in North American and what they've seen in Europe and frankly we were stronger in North America and in Europe than other companies were.
Some other companies had strong growth in Asia but they didn't have that huge comp in Japan and if you take out that huge comp in Japan we grew in Asia.
So honestly there are a lot of positive trends here that make me enthusiastic and the sales funnels look pretty good.
The sales managers are doing what they're supposed to be doing.
That being said in the long run yes I believe that we can get into the low double digits but in terms of predicting what's going to happen this year I think you're just going to take that ride with us.
Okay thanks very much guys.
Thanks.
And your next question comes from the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Good evening everyone and thank you for taking the questions.
I know there are a lot of moving parts in the order rates quarter-to-quarter comps geographic mix new product launches etc.
but kind of looking to your growth rate to normalize out some of the comps it looks like North American oncology orders on a compound annual basis grew over that period in the 2% range.
Can you help us think about normalized growth rates for some of the end-user markets in which you compete especially as we sort of get beyond these gyrations in cyclicality?  Yeah well your 2% number comes from the fact that I think North America declined what nearly 20% in -  13% in the year ago.
13% in the year-ago quarter so even if it grew 20% this quarter it reduces the overall effect.
But I would remind you that the U.S.
was going through a horrible recession in the United States and it's frankly still not over.
Unemployment rates remain high and I believe that as the U.S.
really starts to pull out of this recession and as unemployment rates get lower we have a lot of strong potential in the U.S.
Elisha what were you -  I meant with TrueBeam it appears to be that we are growing faster than the market in the U.S.
(inaudible) TrueBeam.
Yeah I think we're gaining share in the U.S.
due to TrueBeam.
That is a really excellent point.
So I don't think we have anything to apologize for in the U.S.
market and you got to remember that that 20% number includes both services and products.
So I'm not bringing it out in this call but if you can well imagine services are not likely to have grown faster than 20%.
So this means the product news was really really good in North America.
Sure.
So the question looks like there is a pretty nice uptick in TrueBeam orders if I'm correct quarter over quarter.
Can you maybe talk about the at least in the United States the nature of the customers who are adopting TrueBeam? Is there a way to characterize the type of hospital that focuses on academic centers is it more community center or broad based individual stand-alone clinics?  It's a good question.
Logically you would kind of assume that it's the academic centers and the big locations but the fact is that we're seeing it be broad based so that's really nice.
I think the reason why it is is because TrueBeam brings a lot of powerful capabilities to users but in a way that is actually simpler for them to use so it's not scary for a lot of people to use these enhanced capabilities because we've made the product so easy to work with.
I think it's a real breakthrough in a number of ways and so as a consequence we just see it be across the board.
That's good and that's a good harbinger for Europe as well because European sites I think we're more and more going to see that broad-based acceptance.
It's hard to predict for Asia Asia generally does not buy premium products at the same percentage rates as you see in North America and Europe with the exception of Japan.
But I would hope that  having a product that is so easy to use in this way will help it gain acceptance in Asia as well.
It's a very important introduction for us and I think it's going to change the whole picture worldwide over the next two year.
While you were sort of addressing Asia I think you referenced that except Japan Asia Pacific sales were up double digits and it looks like also from numbers that your prime competitor reported last year for their most recent quarter that Asia Pacific as a market is growing fairly significantly.
Can we just talk about market dynamics there and also your progress in China in particular?   In China I think we're doing okay but I think we can do better.
I think we can do better in both India and in China.
I think we should be able to add some share especially as we gain permission to bring new products into those markets.
I think we're going to see our share go up but we're going to have to expand the size of our teams in those countries and we're in the process of making those investments.
As we made the comment earlier we're not approved for some of our new products but nonetheless China was up I think – 17% 17% in a quarter.
So that's nice to see.
But I think if we get permission to have all of the products we want to have in China and get permission to have all of the products we want to have in Japan then I think we can gain a lot of share there.
We're not quite there.
We need some permissions that we do not yet have and then we're going to build our teams in those operations and I think looking out a year I think we'll see a lot of strengthening in those locations.
Great.
I appreciate the color thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Arnold with Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon.
Hi good afternoon.
I guess I just want to stay on the gross margin piece for just a second and part of the reason we continue to ask the questions is because we see some of the benefits coming from the TrueBeam mix and the U.S.
geographic mix going forward.
But do you expect the mix of software versus systems to change over the next few quarters and is that part of the reason you're being a little bit more cautious about gross-margin gains going forward.
Mark no I mean TrueBeam obviously has a lot of software that goes along with it but so does Trilogy so I don't see a huge shift in software versus Clinac iX.
I mean to the extent that you view RapidArc as a software product I think it' helps us.
Yeah.
But it's – and TrueBeam remains a very small part of -   Very small.
- in terms of units in this quarter so I haven't really shown you the impact yet of TrueBeam so we're hoping over time that helps us.
Tim you kind of answered my question there but should we expect that the contribution from RapidArc which may have had a very very positive impact on margins kind of abates going forward and is replaced with sales really more of systems like TrueBeam and while that still is positive for margins maybe not as positive as what we've seen?  We just had a very high mix of RapidArc upgrades in the quarter that may or may not repeat moving into the second half of this year.
I mean hopefully it will but all things equal our software products have about an 70-80% gross margin and the accessories 50 to 60 and then the (inaudible) from there and service about 50.
So it's hugely dependent on any mix on any given quarter.
I mean obviously over the long term we are trying to have more software products in our mix.
That's what we want to do.
I think we have 933 people on our engineering teams now and the more than half are software related so we're clearly putting a lot of emphasis on doing that.
I will say with regards to RapidArc that we have recently introduced gated RapidArc which is sort of a new more capable version of RapidArc that we're bringing into the market.
So I think that will give RapidArc some legs.
You guys are doing a great job on margins so I know I'm just trying to get some clarity on what we should be looking at in the next few quarters.
Just moving on just Japan you mentioned Tim that March of last year was when that program ended.
So should we expect another quarter here of a tough comp in Japan or was the bulk of it in the December quarter?  Quarter two in Japan was not as strong as quarter one in Japan.
Japan is a territory in which quarter one is often stronger than some of the other quarters having to do with the way their hospitals budget there.
But it is a more difficult comp in Japan than it will be in the third quarter.
I think Q2 was lower than Q1 by about $20 million.
So it's going to be a difficult comp but not quite as difficult and painful as it was in this quarter.
And I will also mention that you know when we look at Japan going forward Japan has not fallen off an edge.
It's behaving more like normal so we're still seeing a decent funnel in Japan but we'll have to see how the year goes but I'm hoping that in the second quarter – well certainly the numbers indicate that we won't have as big a comp problem as we did in Q1.
A couple more quick ones from me.
Any update on the timing of the permissions to sell UNIQUE and TrueBeam in China?  I wish I had you know any predictions that I make will immediately you know I'll have to knock on wood and so my Ouija board just does not give me good answers for that.
I wish I could give you a prediction but I really can't.
And the last one from me.
You mentioned that the construction on the Scripps project is ongoing.
I assume that means the developers have high confidence that the financing is going to get completed here.
Can you just give us an update of what contingencies still need to be met there before you would book the proton order into backlog?  Yeah.
Mark and to remind you they did do an equity raise and so they have money in the bank of which this construction they're using the equity that they raised several quarters ago.
And we are hopefully – APT is coming down the wire here I'm getting their debt financing done but until that is signed sealed delivered and all the Is dotted and the Ts crossed we're just not going to book the order so it's imminent whether it's a Q2 or a Q3 event.
One day could make that difference but I suspect and we hope certainly that they're going to get this done here in short order.
Great.
Thank you nice quarter.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Josh Jennings with Jefferies and Company.
Please proceed.
Great thanks a lot for taking the questions.
Hi Josh.
How are you guys doing?  We're doing okay.
Just a followup on the last question just in terms of the proton business and your full-year guidance can you just remind me what's baked into the bottom line for that business segment? My understanding is that last year was a $0.05 to $0.07 drag on earnings and what's baked into that business segment for fiscal 11 guidance?  Yeah it's pretty comparable Josh.
In terms of gross margin remember though any revenue that we book for protons on systems most likely is going to be at the zero-profit model until we prove ourselves and the fact that we know how to do accurate cost estimates.
So even if we get for instance some of this Scripps revenue in this year it will be at a zero-gross profit most likely.
But from the operating expenses it continues to be diluted in the range of last year.
Okay thanks.
And just back on the gross margin side again with a nice ramp in software mix in fiscal Q1 I think you guys mentioned in fiscal Q4 that you had 1200 orders to date for RapidArc and 600 installs.
So is there still some mix opportunity on the gross margin side with software over the next couple of quarters?  Sorry for the delay I'm just trying to think through your question here.
So yes.
Backlog is up 10% as of the end of the quarter of which clearly there are software upgrades that are in that number that will continue to positively impact gross margin.
Are you asking if there's an upside over guidance or what are you I'm not sure that  In terms of any mix shift that you experienced in Q1 if you still had 600 installs for RapidArc at the end of fiscal year Q4? I guess how much more runway is there for that mix shift and maybe if you could talk about the strength in RapidArc orders in fiscal Q1 as well in terms of your backlog in RapidArc orders as well.
We stopped talking about RapidArc numbers a while ago so I didn't bring that number to the meeting but as I indicated earlier with the introduction of gated RapidArc I think we can give some additional legs to that.
It's also a shorter time in backlog Josh when you're looking at an upgrade as opposed when it goes with a new system so clearly if orders in Q2 and Q3 are stronger in the software upgrades then there's still time this fiscal year to get those installed and the revenue recorded.
We're basically looking at what we having backlog today and customer-requested delivery date.
You know RapidArc upgrades did do well in the quarter.
And I don't have any reason to believe that won't continue but we baked all of that into our estimates.
So I don't know that there's an upside from it beyond what we've already baked in.
Okay great.
And lastly on the margin front if you look at TrueBeam service contracts being a nice improvement (inaudible) historical service contracts for Trilogy when does that start to contribute to margin expansions? Is that not until fiscal 12 after the one-year warranty or can that contribute to fiscal 11?  It's primarily fiscal 12 and really fiscal year 13 because still as of today TrueBeam has a very small piece of the total oncology revenue about 5% and it's a 12-month warranty period so as the installations continue and as that one year rolls off we'll really start to get some momentum in the service  When you look at the nearly 6000 machines that we have in the world 40 of them are TrueBeam right now.
So it's not going to be a significant factor until 12 and 13.
Hello?  And your next question comes from the line of Jeff Johnson with Robert W.
Baird.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good evening.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Hi.
Hi Tim.
I was just wondering a couple of housekeeping questions more than anything.
To go back to David's question on TrueBeam he mentioned TrueBeam orders up in the quarter.
By math they were actually down a little about about 60 orders last quarter or closer to 50 this quarter.
Is my math off or what's going on?  Your math is not off but you're forgetting the last quarter was the fourth quarter which is traditionally our biggest quarter.
So we're up...
Sure.
You know yes we're down but then total units are down.
But...
Right right right.
So I guess my question there Tim was...
As a percentage it's up.
Yeah on a seasonality basis I understand the absolute number down but your take rate was up both worldwide and U.S.
Is that a fair comment?  Yes but really strong in the U.S.
with close to 60% of machine orders in the U.S.
being TrueBeam It was a really big number.
Okay that helps.
Thanks Elisha.
And then the clarity on Japan for next quarter very helpful and I know you guys have one-off orders of size that come in every single quarter but anything to the extent of what we saw in Japan this quarter that should be on radar screen over the next few quarters?  You mean in oncology?  In oncology.
We've already told you about the $20 million one in SIP so that will count.
We always get big orders in oncology.
They happen every year.
There's nothing I know of that's just sitting here that I think is going to...
be a $40 million swing.
...that's going to be a big swing.
Yeah and I'm talking more Tim historically over the last three or four quarters any other big swings that happened in the past that we have to worry about from a negative comp standpoint?  I see from a comp stat category looking through to the end of the year we're kind of looking at each other her to think about that.
Japan was the big winner last year.
I don't recall anything in Australia  or China that was unusual.
I think that $20 million in Japan is probably the biggest thing.
Oh yeah Canada.
Canada is a larger territory than it usually is this year because there is kind of a stimulus going on in Canada.
That will help us this year kind of work against us in 2012.
I'll take it in 11 I guess worry about it in 12.
Let's see a couple other questions here.
On the Toshiba and Elisha the last time you guys announced that I think it was a $320 million supply agreement that you're right up 40%.
If that's almost a third of your business in x-ray  a third of your x-ray business grown 40%  Tim does that essentially put a 10-15% floor on the revenue growth and order growth that we should expect in x-ray over the next three years and that would assume zero growth in flat panels and all this other stuff you have coming out?  Well you know I haven't given you a forecast for orders growth and flat panels for the next three years and probably won't give it right now but a floor let's see a floor.
Well I certainly hope that if everything happens to Toshiba in the way that they expect I mean this is really good news because I think we're going to get some great new growth in our flat panel business in the next few years that we'll be able to add to this and I'm hoping to get some other good x-ray tube business as well.
I think this is it certainly fills me with greater confidence about the growth prospects of this business over the next few year.
But you've got to remember that Toshiba a large part of what they buy from us are tubes and so this mostly relates to growth that Toshiba's expecting in the tube business and also the North American market for CT scanners was hurt two years ago so I think that it means that Toshiba is more confident about the need for CT scanners in the U.S.
and in the world going forward and that's why we're seeing this number.
Flat panels was a smaller portion of this number.
I can't actually break it apart for you but we still see flat panels as a big grower especially our rad  panels.
So you'll have to pencil out your own math.
I don't want to give you multiple-year guidance on a particular business unit but certainly this was pretty dang good news.
Yeah congrats on that.
Last two questions I guess just for Elisha.
510(k) on the proton Elisha and the debt and equity in the Scripps deal that's already out there does that mean you're less likely to use your balance sheet on that deal and/or any future deals or do you still think your contemplating that?  You know Jeff to be determined on all of the deals that we have on the table right now.
But again we will be participating along with other financiers at some level.
I'm just not willing to go out on a limb and tell you exactly what it's going to look like at this point whether it's payment terms whether it's a bond hold whether we're part of a debt facility but we are absolutely able and will to participate given that $700 million of cash earning effectively nothing and it really gives us an ability to go out and prove ourselves and grow this business.
So it is something we will likely do.
Okay and the last question just on afaxite.
Going into this quarter you had used a buck thirty-eight to a buck forty-two on the Euro and obviously interquarter that looking maybe a little worrisome so what are you thinking now for the rest of the year? Are you getting a little more conservative on your Euro assumptions here at a buck thirty-seven or what's embedded in your guidance from here?  Oh boy.
Well we put all sorts of sensitivity analysis around that Jeff.
But fortunately when I look at Q2 the Q2 in the year-ago period was about $1.40 and we're running at about $1.36 or 7 currently so the delta is much much less so I'm encouraged when we look at Q2 that you won't get wild swings quarter over quarter.
For the year that one's a little more cyclitive at this point.
Euro just seems to be all over the place.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Junaid Husain with Soleil Securities.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon guys.
Good afternoon.
You know a lot of the nitpicky modeling questions have mostly been answered so why don't we focus more big picture.
Tim we're about five months away from the release of the preliminary hospital outpatient perspective payment system the preliminary reimbursement rules for 2012.
As you speak to your policy guys what is your sense for the directionality of radiation and oncology reimbursement for next year?  You know I actually prefer the nitpicky questions because Elisha can answer them and this requires me to use my psychic powers which have not always you know all that good.
I will say that obviously we've seen articles in the newspaper and from other sources be critical of the amount of money spent on prostate cancer treatments in North America.
I think the prostate cancer death is still 30 000 people a year so I don't think enough is being done for prostate cancer but if you read some newspapers you'd think that we're way over doing it.
And sometimes I think that there are organizations in Washington that read those newspapers and draw the wrong conclusions.
So there may be some attempt to control reimbursement for prostate treatments.
You know right now in radiation therapy the way the codes are written they're generic there is no indication of what disease they treat.
So there's a possibility I don't regard it as a likely possibility but there is a small possibility that they'll try to break out prostate cancer.
And if they break it out you know where will it have the biggest effect? It will probably have the biggest effect on protons for prostates.
What's nice about us is that we're not assuming very many prostate patients will be treated with protons in our models and so we don't think it's going to affect us very much.
So if there's going to be an effect I'm expecting a stronger effect on protons than I am expecting elsewhere.
But I'm not predicting it I'm just saying if it happened I would be less surprised there.
At the same time we're continuing to concentrate on throughput.
Every conference call you hear me over and over again talk about shortening treatment times and being able to deliver a sterotactic radiosurgery procedure in six minutes with 18 Gray which is kind of remarkable actually and we're doing all of that because we really think that that's what we have to do for our customers.
We have to be able to find ways for them to be able to deliver therapy faster because then if they do see reimbursement cuts they'll be able to accommodate them in their clinics and we think that's an advantage to us.
We think that Varian has done a much better job in producing super high-quality treatments in a very short time.
We think we've done a better job at that than anybody else in this field.
So that's why we're focused on that so much.
So I'm not expecting big trouble I'm not predicting big trouble but if there were going to be big trouble it's probably going to be that somebody is going to try to fix prostate cancer from 50 000 feet which is a bad idea but bad ideas have happened before.
Gotcha.
Now that's actually very helpful.
And then I guess last question for you speaking of articles in the newspaper we've seen some media attention of late highlighting the radiation and oncology space somewhat negatively especially as it pertains to safetyl.
I guess this isn't really new information but what are your thoughts as you think about safety issues that have been coming up and do you think that the regulators might want to put a little more scrutiny on the manufacturers?  We're obviously in constant communication with the FDA about any issues that arise.
We talk to them about these things.
I met with the FDA last year and probably will wind up meeting with them again this year and when we had an FDA inspection just in the last few months so we are and the regulators remain concerned about safety here.
Putting it in perspective there were a small number of events.
Unfortunately we have a million and a half people who are treated per year about that number on our equipment so even if you're 99.99% good that's still going to produce too many events.
And so when we see a pattern happen and that's what certain newspapers seized on was the pattern when that happens even if it happens at only one or two sites we treat it as something we have to deal with.
We just got FDA approval for a modification that we're going to put on our machines we told our customers all about it and we'll be rolling that out this year at no charge to them.
So even though that only a handful of events occurred we think even one is too many and we're going to deal with it.
Around here whenever anyone calls up and says a patient was injured that's a really bad day for us.
We just hate that.
And so we're going to do everything we can to keep that from happening and if it costs millions of dollars to keep it from happening well then that's what we'll pay because we think that patient safety is obviously something we have to take very very seriously.
At the same time I will say if you think about that 99.9% record and when you realize how powerful these machines are that they can treat and kill a small spot of cancer inside the body I think that speaks well of our customers I think our customers by and large incredibly scrupulous and diligent people who want to do a good job and so we are very proud of them as well.
But any mistake was too many and so we're going to deal with that.
So this year we actually built that already into the numbers that we gave you as we roll out this change we've already built that into our numbers that we've described for you.
I think this change is a really good one and I think our customers are going to like it so any time we have a problem we're going to increase our safeguards.
So I hate to read these articles but sometimes you just have to take your hat off and thank sometimes the newspapers have drawn your attention to something and sometimes you have to say thanks even when you really don't want to.
Got it.
That's very helpful.
Alright guys thanks very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of James Terwilliger with Duncan Williams.
Please proceed.
Hey Tim hey Elisha can you hear me?  Hey.
We can hear you fine.
How are you?  Good.
Congratulations on a good quarter.
Most of my questions have been answered.
but lucky for you I still have a couple.
I hope there's detailed model questions.
the first one is I want you to talk about the customers' tone at ASTRO I know that wasn't the first ASTRO that you've been to it wasn't the first one I've been to but the tone to me from the customers when I was there feeled extremely positive and robust and I wanted you talk a little bit about that.
Is it new technology that's the catalyst here to adopt this new technology? Or have these hospitals just not spent Cap x in the last two years and they have to do some spending now?  You know we saw them be excited across the board.
I certainly think that TrueBeam excited them and frankly at this ASTRO we introduced something really big and a lot of our competitors really didn't introduce anything of comparable newsworthiness so I think that – we saw a lot of positivity in our booth and that was very nice to see.
At the same time though it wasn't just TrueBeam.
Lester Boeh who is the head of our proton business was in the booth and talking about protons and he told me that he expected his role in the booth was going to be to direct people to where the TrueBeam demo was but it turns out we had a lot of interest in protons as well and he was constantly busy so that was nice to see.
I would have to say that we introduced some new technology on our information systems we demonstrated a product that we call Nexus which is the next generation of our software in our ARIA platform which people really like and we showed an iPad application that people really loved.
We think that mobile these kind of tablet applications in medicine are going to become very very popular because tablets are a lot easier to carry around than laptops.
So we think that tablet software is going to become a big deal in medicine.
And maybe I should be buying stock in Apple right now instead of this.
But anyway we think that as more Android tablets come online and the next generation of Apple products come online we're going to see more and more people use that.
So we had enthusiasm for a broad range of products.
You're right you're right we had a lot of enthusiasm and I was really happy to see.
Obviously I can't I'm not allowed to spend a lot of time in my competitors' booths but the mood in the Varian meeting was very upbeat.
I thought you guys did a great job and I thought that the customers' tone was very robust.
If I would switch to a different topic as it relates to proton therapy could you highlight very quickly the benefits of proton therapy and I know it's far away in terms of revenue and earnings for this but you're having discussions with I'm going to guess ten different parties.
What does that party look like? Is this something that would be adopted more in areas where due to its cost that maybe in areas of socialized medicine where a certain company could step up and maybe use government proceeds and debt to fund one facility.
Is that fair assumption?  You know outside of the U.S.
it's almost all socialized medicine so obviously a lot of those facilities will be government but there will be some private ones as well.
The center in Munich is a private center and is not part of that system.
So we'll see a little bit of both happening.
The basic principal of protons is that for a given dose to the tumor is that you deposit a lot less dose to healthy tissue than you would with an x-ray beam and that's simply because when the  x-ray beam enters the body the amount that's absorbed by the tissue starts relatively high by the skin and then diminishes as you go deeper into the body.
Whereas with a proton beam most of the dose is deposited at the tumor and very little dose is deposited as the beam enters and no dose is deposited after the tumor so it produces a much nicer dose pattern.
That means that you don't need to use as many beams and that means you can reduce the dose to healthy tissue.
Why is that important? Well if the patient you're treating is 75 years old it may not be that important because the secondary disease may not happen for 30 40 years.
But there is a category of patients for whom it's very important.
One of those groups is children.
You don't really want to give children a high dose to healthy tissue because they're going to live 50 60 70 years from the time they get this treatment so you don't want to see secondary cancers.
Another group is people who have already been treated.
They have already received maybe a high dose to their healthy tissues.
Those healthy tissues will not tolerate additional dose and so if you can use protons to treat them that would be great.
Another possibility is just tumors that are located adjacent to tissue that is very sensitive.
So when you look at spine or you look at brain you may be able to deliver doses that will have a lot less toxicity nearby healthy tissue.
And some of our customers are very enthusiastic about lung.
Now lung is a relatively new application for protons but the idea is that you can avoid the healthy lung and deliver a lot more dose the the tumor.
We'll have to see if that works out but if it does work out that could be hugely beneficial especially for people who have lung cancer while they're in their 50s or 60s.
We think that sterotactic applications for protons could be good because once again a sterotactic application uses lot of beams in x-ray it puts a lot of dose outside the tumor but sterotactic protons will put much less dose outside the tumor.
So for all of the reasons it's good and we think socialized medical systems may want to do it.
We think about 10-15% of patients will benefit from protons as opposed to x-rays.
We think that there's going to be huge growth in x-rays don't get me wrong.
We think there's a gigantic wave of people who are going to go over 65 years old and we think that there's going to be big growth necessary in x-rays.
But we also think that it's going to create a bit opportunity for protons going forward and we think the United States might hold 60 or 70 systems from the what dozen or so that it has now and we think we might see an even larger number internationally  Okay great.
Thank you.
One other question.
On the international side of the business we've talked about Japan and China Europe and South America but Tim could you please comment very briefly on what you're seeing in India and the Middle East?  You know India and the Middle East – the Middle East is being very good right now.
That's a good territory for us.
India we've had some strengths recently in India and in the long run we think India's a terrifically important territory.
A lot of Indian healthcare is delivered at public health clinics.
Most of of our successes in India have been at private clinics in fact almost all have been at private clinics and private clinics affect the upper middle class.
But to get to the great mass of the Indian population products like UNIQUE are going to be important.
So I think that India remains a significant market but I think it's tiny now compared to what it's going to be in five years.
Okay great and the very last question is you know as you've raised guidance and your business seems pretty robust do you have the infrastructure in place to support this growth? Are you looking to hire additional sales people or installers or is the organization positioned with the infrastructure to support the future growth initiative?  I think we have the factories necessary to do it.
We are always hiring to our service teams and in fact if anyone is listening today would like to join our organization we can certainly arrange for that.
But we're hiring service people all over the world.
It is one of the fastest growing parts of our operation and yes you will see us add sales people especially outside of North America.
Okay great.
Again congratulations on a good quarter.
Thank you.
Thanks so that's all the questions we can take for the day.
Thank you for participating.
A replay of this call can be heard on the Varian investor website at www.
Varian.com\investor where it will be archived for a year.
To hear a telephone replay please call 1-888-286-8010 from inside the U.S.
or 1-617-801-6888 from outside the U.S.
and enter confirmation code 98071883.
Telephone replay will be available until 5pm this Friday January 28.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the presentation.
You may disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 Varian Medical Systems Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Stacy and I'll be your conference moderator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Spencer Sias Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and welcome to Varian Medical Systems Conference Call for the Second Quarter of Fiscal Year 2011.
With me are Tim Guertin President and CEO; Elisha Finney CFO; and Tai Chen our Corporate Controller.
Tim and Elisha will summarize our results and we'll take your questions following the presentation.
To simplify our discussion unless otherwise stated all references of the quarter or year are fiscal quarters or fiscal years quarterly comparisons are for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 versus the second quarter of fiscal 2010.
Annual comparisons are for fiscal 2011 versus fiscal 2010.
All results are for continuing operations which exclude the sale of the research instruments portion of ACCEL.
Please be advised that this presentation and discussion contains forward-looking statements.
Our use of words and phrases such as outlook could should believe opportunity can continue estimate and similar expressions are intended to identify those statements which represent our current judgment on future performance or other future matters but we believe them to be reasonable based on information currently available to us these said statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of the important risks relating to our business are described in our second quarter earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements in this presentation and discussion because of new information future events or otherwise.
Let me quickly remind you that Varian management will be holding a mid-year review for investors a week from today in New York lunch time meeting will take place from 11:30 to 2:00 p.m.
Eastern Time at Sentry Centers at 730 Third Avenue in New York.
Details are available on our Investor Relations website at www.varian.com/investors you'll find the details under Events and Webcasts.
Before turning it over to Tim let me say that because we have more participants in this call I'm going to be asking questionnaires to limit their questions to one question.
We will circle around again if we have the time to do it but I want to give everybody an opportunity to ask at least one question in this call.
So thank you very much.
And now here's Tim.
Good afternoon and welcome.
Today for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 we're reporting financial results that demonstrate that our companies long-term growth strategy is on track.
Demand for our new TrueBeam system oncology services and X-ray tubes and panels as well as strong performance in our Security business led to healthy orders and revenue growth and improved margins during the quarter.
In summary revenues grows by 11% our operating earnings increased by 12% topping 23% of revenues.
Net earnings for the company increased by 13% and EPS rose by 18%.
Our quarter ending backlog expanded by 11% to $2.2 billion.
We ended the quarter with $584 million in cash and cash equivalents even after spending $238 million on a program for the accelerated repurchase of 3.5 million shares of our stock.
As you all know that a quarter was marked by an unusual number of disruptions around the world including unrest in the Middle East an earthquake in New Zealand and the most recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan.
Many of you have been concerned about the possible impact of these events on our businesses and I can now report that although many customers and employees were deeply affected the overall effect on our financial performance has been very limited so far.
I'll provide more details on this in a few moments.
I'll focus now on orders and operations in each of our businesses.
Oncology Systems second quarter net orders totaled $520 million up 9% with 12% growth in North America and a 7% increase in the overall international markets.
Oncology achieved double-digit order growth in North America with the help of some major wins involving our TrueBeam platform for radiotherapy and radiosurgery.
For example we booked an order for six TrueBeam units with USMD a leading cancer care provider and Bayhealth in Maryland placed an order for three TrueBeam units.
We also had a significant software win for our ARIA information management system at the University of South Alabama.
We have replaced rival systems.
We continue to do very well against the competition in this important software market during the quarter.
Year-to-date orders are up 16% for our Oncology business in North America.
In Europe net orders grew in double digits for the second consecutive quarter.
This was driven by robust service gains coupled with strong system orders with notable gains in Egypt Spain Norway Poland Romania and Russia.
For example despite the political turmoil in Egypt we received a multiunit order for a military hospital there.
In the Netherlands we won a large order to replace multiple units from one of our competitors.
We are seeing customer demand for our clinical solution that combines high throughput advanced clinical capability and cost effectiveness a combination at place to a strength that is unique to Varian.
Despite continued orders growth in China Oncology Systems net orders for Asia again declined versus a strong year-ago quarter when Japan finished the large government stimulus spending program.
At this point we're pleased with the strength of business in Japan where orders have grown for three consecutive quarters.
To give you a little more color on the effects of the disaster there 12 Varian treatment centers were knocked out of operation by the earthquake and or tsunami.
JASTRO Japan's radiation oncology professional group rushed to reroute patients undergoing treatment to working facilities while Varian service teams from throughout Japan worked with clinical personal to restore normal operations at the damaged centers as quickly as possible.
These teams had eight clinics back in normal operation within 2 weeks.
Despite this extensive disaster recovery effort our service teams were able to complete installations of our new machines in Japan as scheduled during the quarter.
I think what makes this all the more remarkable is that this work was successfully completed in spite of gasoline and food shortages rolling blackouts telecommunications breakdowns and other logistical troubles that may affect this nation for many months to come.
We're working with our customers and suppliers in Japan in an effort to minimize the long-term effect of this catastrophe.
The people of Japan have shown tremendous courage and resiliency in the face of this disaster we're honored to be partnering with them on this recovery.
Varian together with hundreds of our individual employees from Japan and around the world has donated nearly $200 000 to the relief effort.
Turning now to the rest of the world.
Oncology Systems net orders grew nicely driven by Brazil and Barbados and Latin America and by New Zealand where we won another international order for TrueBeam.
Overall we had another very good quarter for our TrueBeam product.
As of the end of the quarter we had more than 225 orders of this game-changing cancer treatment platform since its introduction in the second quarter of last year.
Installations of TrueBeams are proceeding smoothly with more than 65 installations complete or in progress as of the end of the quarter.
As you may have seen in our recent press release we have received SFDA clearance to market and sell our TrueBeam product in China.
This opens up an important market where I believe firmly that this device can make a meaningful difference in the treatment of lung liver and other cancers.
The clinical story continues to be the most exciting story about TrueBeam.
To give you some reason examples doctors at the University of Alabama at Birmingham have taken advantage of TrueBeam's motion management technology including gated RapidArc to deliver conventional and hypofractionated treatments for liver and lung cancer as well as metastatic adrenal cancer.
And clinicians using TrueBeam at UC San Diego are excited about the potential for sparing more healthy tissue and reducing complications for their Hodgkin’s lymphoma patients.
At Stanford doctors have now delivered RapidArc hypofractionated treatments for both lung and pancreatic cancer using TrueBeam's unmatched high dose delivery rate and two arcs to complete each procedure in just three minutes.
Our Trilogy and low-energy accelerators and RapidArc upgrades as well as our software for treatment planning and managing clinical data also contributed to the Oncology Systems' order growth for the quarter.
Service orders and revenue including the second quarter have continued to average around 15% year-over-year growth.
Growth in this business has been driven by an increased contract capture rate better pricing and a larger install base which now stands at around 6 200 machines.
Turning to X-Ray Products.
We continue to see record-breaking second quarter growth in net orders and revenues for this business.
Net orders increased by 18% to $124 million revenues rose 15% to $118 million and this business achieved record second quarter operating income.
Surprisingly two borders grew faster than panel orders and although both were in solid double-digits.
Here again Japanese business came through despite its natural disaster with large orders for CT tubes from Toshiba and other Japanese manufacturers.
Toshiba has continued to operate normally under our long-term purchasing agreement with them.
Outside of Japan we also had good growth and orders of tubes for mammography and industrial applications including non-destructive testing material analysis for environmental compliance and airport baggage screening systems.
I'm pleased to note that our tube operation was the prime driver of a 2-point gain in gross margin in our X-Ray Products business principally because of higher shipment volumes manufacturing efficiencies and lower cost of quality.
Our biggest dynamic panels for fluoroscopic and CT imaging were the biggest contributors to the continued expansion in our Panel business during the quarter an apparent ongoing recovery in the market for dental and veterinary x-rays imaging systems also added to the growth of our Panel business.
Looking at the strong performance in X-Ray Products over the last several quarters I believe we are witnessing an ongoing recovery in almost every segment of the X-ray imaging industry.
Switching now to our other category including our SIP Security and Inspection Products business and our Particle Therapy business we generated combined net orders of $38 million from the quarter up by $25 million from the year-ago quarter.
All of the order expansion in this category came from our SIP business as was mentioned in our last call we booked a $21 million order in January from U.S.
Customs and border protection for five of our turnkey IntellX cargo screening systems that will be installed on the U.S.
border over the next 12 to 18 months.
We also received a large order during the quarter for cargo screening components that will be integrated into scanning systems for installation in the Middle East.
SIP also booked a multimillion order for a 15 million volt Linatron that will be used for nondestructive testing applications in Europe.
In the Varian Particle Therapy business we continue to see progress on construction the Scripps Proton Therapy Center in San Diego and we expect to book an $88 million order to equip that center when project financing is completed.
And now here's Elisha.
Thanks Tim and hello everyone.
While Tim has already covered net orders I want to briefly talk about constant currency growth rates for the quarter.
Our net orders and revenues were impacted by a stronger yen and aussie that were largely offset by a weaker euro.
Oncology grew net orders by 9% in dollars or 8% in constant currency.
Total international Oncology orders increased 7% in dollars and 6% on a constant-currency basis.
Oncology's European net orders grew 14% or 16% in constant currency while the Asian orders declined by 13% or 19% in constant currency.
Second quarter revenues increased 11% to $648 million with constant currency growth of 9%.
Oncology Systems posted a 9% in revenues X-Ray Products a gain of 15% and revenues from businesses under the Other category increased by 20%.
The second quarter growth margin for the company rose by more than a point to 44.6%.
Oncology Systems gross margin's increased by nearly 40 basis points to 45.5% due primarily to improved installation and warranty costs a favorable geographic mix shift to North America and higher TrueBeam shipments.
X-Ray Products gross margin rose by nearly two points to 40.4% due as Tim said to high shipment volumes manufacturing efficiency and improved cost of quality for our X-ray tubes.
For the first half the total company gross margin is up more than a point to 45.3% with gains in all business segments.
Second quarter SG&amp;A expenses were $94 million or 14% of revenues up as expected by about a point as a percentage of revenue due largely to higher compensation cost compared to the year-ago quarter when austerity measures including salary and hiring increases were in place.
We have more recently been investing and expanding marketing and sales capacity to execute on our global growth strategy.
Second quarter R&amp;D expenses were $44 million or 7% of revenue about even as a percentage of revenue with a year-ago quarter.
For the first half total operating expenses were up half a point as a percentage of revenue from the year-ago period.
Moving down the income statement.
Second quarter operating earnings totaled $151 million up 12% to 23.3% of revenues.
For the first half operating earnings are up 13% to $288 million or 23.5% of revenue.
Depreciation and amortization totaled $13 million for the quarter.
The effective tax rate was 31.8% for the quarter down almost 1 point from the year-ago quarter due largely to a net benefit of the free tax items.
For fiscal year 2011 we continue to estimate that the tax rate will be in the range of 31% to 32% including a 30% to 31% rate for the third quarter.
Fully diluted shares outstanding decreased significantly from the year-ago quarter to 120 million due largely to the accelerated share repurchase program that were executed in August of 2010 and this past February.
Diluted earnings per share rose 18% to $0.86.
Turning now to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $584 million total debt of $143 million and stockholders' equity of $1.3 billion.
Subsequent to the close of the quarter we have continued to pay down short-term debt under our revolving line of credit which as of today is less than $40 million outstanding.
DSO; Days Sales Outstanding increased by three days from the year-ago quarter to 79.
Second quarter cash flow from operations was $68 million with net earnings partially offset by increased accounts receivable and inventory related to current and expected higher shipments.
Another primary source of cash was $120 million in net borrowing mostly for the accelerated share repurchase during the quarter.
Primary usage of cash was $238 million to repurchase 3.5 million shares of stock.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately 13 million shares remaining under repurchase authorization.
Now I'll turn it back over to Tim for the outlook.
Well while our business has faced some uncertainty related to ongoing effects of the catastrophe in Japan our outlook for the balance of the fiscal year remains unchanged.
For fiscal 2011 we continue to estimate that annual revenues could grow 10% to 11% over the fiscal 2010 total and net earnings per diluted share from continuing operations could be in the range of $3.39 to $3.45.
For the third quarter of fiscal 2011 we estimate the total company revenues could increase by about 11% to 12% over the prior-year period and that net earnings per diluted share from continuing operations could be in the range of $0.80 to $0.83.
We're now ready for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Amit Bhalla with Citigroup.
My question relates to the North America Oncology order book typically we've seen in this fiscal second quarter in absolute dollars that North American Oncology order book grows.
So I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the dynamics in North America and then your view for the next two quarters as the comps start to get a little bit tougher in North America.
The comps are -- will of course be tougher.
But I mean the good news is we had 18% growth in the quarter North America for Oncology 22% in the first half.
We had two points now that say that we're seeing some recovery in the North America market.
That's very nice to see.
TrueBeam is now a majority of our high-energy machine orders.
That will help us in the North American marketplace.
We've mentioned some big wins at certain sites like USMD you saw some conversion of impact sites to ARIA and we're not seeing major losses.
So all of those things mean that I think we're doing well in North America.
And I think our share is doing well in North America.
SBRT is continuing to be important.
Few years ago I think SRS stereotactic radiosurgery for intracranial was important and now more and more we're seeing people focused on stereotactic body radiation therapy.
And that means a lot of the features that are in TrueBeam are really relevant.
So all of those factors will weigh in our fortune.
It's not my practice to prognosticate orders in any particular country because that's the way to get in trouble fast but all I can tell you is so far so good.
And the signs in the marketplace are good.
But as you mentioned we will have tougher comps because the market started to recover 12 months ago.
And that will help.
The nice thing about getting those orders is we did go through this trough in the North American orders and that affected our sales.
That's made it tougher in 2011 to get all the sales we would have liked to have in North America.
So seeing this business come back reassures me that going forward we'll have nice revenue prospects.
And Elisha just on the fiscal third quarter earnings guidance given what you're guiding for the top line I would have expected I guess the earnings to be a little bit stronger.
I guess also coupled with the tax rate you're talking about so could you just walk us through how you get to the $0.80 to $0.83 for earnings...
Sure.
And Amit let me do this at a very obviously top level without giving a lot of specific detail by line item.
But clearly if you look at the year-ago third quarter the gross margin for the company was up about 1.5 points.
So we are -- based on the guidance numbers that we just gave you what I am assuming is that we'll be able to hold that margin relatively flat at about 44%.
R&amp;D will remain about flat as it has for the first half of this year.
SG&amp;A we are still in a recovery and a building mode.
And we're gearing up.
We are doing some key hires and we are increasing travel and things of that nature really to go after the business when the market is expanding.
So SG&amp;A will likely go up as a percentage of revenues by about 0.5 point which gets you to RoS being down by about 0.5 point.
But the tax rate being helped somewhat by the accelerated share repurchase program.
So that's kind of how we get to the guidance number for the third quarter.
I will point out though if you come back to the fiscal year as we have been saying all year gross margin for total company should be up about 1 point SG&amp;A will take about 0.5 point away and total RoS should be at around 23% up about 0.5 point from last year.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Johnson with Robert W.
Baird.
A couple of questions here.
Tim I guess one of the ways we're trying to track things on the TrueBeam side is the take rate.
You talked about a 30% I think a 30% or so worldwide take rate last quarter 55% 60% last quarter in North America.
Any updates to those numbers this quarter? That take rates I think I just gave you the take rate for North America's is the majority.
And I believe the number worldwide is that we're now greater than 40% of high-energy orders worldwide.
So North America 51% 99.5% I guess majority can mean a lot of things there.
Can you ballpark that maybe a little tighter for me? I would like to ballpark it for you but I really don't have it in front of me so I'm going to have to stick with majority.
Okay no that's fair.
And then Elisha just on the guidance again for the full year.
Similar to I guess Amit's question on fiscal Q3 guidance you've got some foreign currency tailwinds here obviously significant share repurchase plans that have gone into the place since the last quarter.
Has currency moved in those share repurchases plans came into effect subsequent to last quarter's end? It just felt like to us there were some upside for the year.
And is Japan just some caution around there maybe offsetting? Or how should we think about what the puts and takes are going into how you hold the guidance for the year stable? Right.
Of course Jeff in terms of the currency you are correct.
I mean assuming that it holds at today's levels versus the year-ago level with the dollar today is about 12% weaker than in the year-ago third quarter it will give us some help on the top line.
But remember we are naturally hedged.
So what it does is it puts a lot more pressure on the SG&amp;A and the R&amp;D expenses because we have a lot of costs particularly with proton therapy now in Europe that are also euro-based.
So it helps us on the top line it kind of shuffles some things in the margin.
Bottom line it's fairly unaffected.
I mean in the order rate clearly we benefit and look forward to competing with a weaker U.S.
dollar.
On the accelerated share repurchase program I mean as you know historically we have bought shares back throughout the year anywhere from 1.5 million to 2 million shares per quarter.
So if all we're doing here with the accelerated program is getting upfront delusion by our deduction in basic shares by a couple of months.
That would have all equaled out by the end of the year.
So it's only a couple of pennies difference by doing this as an accelerated program versus if we had assumed we just continued our normal ongoing share repurchase.
I mean yes of course Japan.
We just feel like it's prudent at this point we're not aware of any particular -- we have some minor issues that we are aware of in terms of our supplier chain.
We have mitigation plans in place.
I'm very optimistic that we're going to be able to weather this.
But I just think it's way early at this juncture not to have some caution for Japan given that it's anywhere from 10% to 15% of our total business.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Jennings with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Just on the international order side it was better than we expected.
Had a very difficult comp at a 33% growth last year and in the face of Japan headwind as well.
Can you just let us in on whether there's a one-time bolus or system orders in any region that would interfere with sequential growth? And International Oncology within a dollar basis in fiscal Q3 we actually have a much weaker comp? I really can't say so no.
I mean yes obviously like in any quarter we had some big deals which I mentioned during my comments.
But truth be said no.
The second quarter doesn't seem to have anything with it.
Is that unusual beyond what we would usually see and so no.
I'm not feeling like it's a special event.
Inc.</strong> And then Elisha on the gross margins side I know I understand the comp year-over-year in terms of the growth margin expansion in fiscal Q3 last year but looking sequentially and looking at some of the gross margin tailwinds that you have in this quarter and moving into fiscal Q3 could you just give us some of the puts and takes on why you're going to have sequential contraction in gross margin? Sure.
As I've said Josh for many quarters now product mix is the biggest driver and I'm simply just looking at what's in backlog and expected shipments and the product mix and the proportion of software hardware acceptance revenue et cetera.
So very backlog delivery driven.
Geographic mix will also play into this and in both Q1 and Q2 we had a very favorable mix into both North America and Japan which are two of our highest gross margin regions.
So moving into Q3 there'll be more international shipments that just has a lower -- typically has a lower gross margin by a couple of points.
Your next question comes from the line of Amit Hazan with Gleacher &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> I thought maybe I'll ask first about the share repurchase and maybe just in terms of kind of how you plan on going through your existing share repurchase with both of your cash right now overseas and that makes kind of full use of your share repurchase a little bit hard to get to unless you do a similar accelerated buybacks with borrowing as you've been doing.
Is that how we should be thinking about that going forward? Or can you sort of talk to the U.S.
component of your cash and how you might use of that? Yes well I mean I think we're in somewhat of an enviable position as lots of companies with strong cash flow and a very very conservative balance sheet.
And so we spend a lot of time thinking about how we're going to return the best way to return this money to shareholders.
So we plan to be opportunistic Amit.
I think you should assume that we will continue on our share repurchase program to be determined whether it's just an ongoing program or whether it's an accelerated program.
That requires us to have an understanding of where our interest rates are at that time and board discussion et cetera.
We are in this accelerated program through August at which point we can then do a more repurchases either in the open market.
And then obviously this program the $13 million runs through the entire next fiscal year.
So I think we have a lot of flexibility in terms of how we execute under a program and how much money which it will depend on how much cash flow we generate in the next two quarters.
This is Tim.
Let me just comment here.
When you look at our P&amp;L for the rest of the year I mean it is true that there are a lot of ins and outs and mix affects us especially we're seeing a mix effect in the third quarter that's affecting us and we have to deal with that.
And below the line there are some artifacts.
The fact that last year we were in austerity mode and this year we're coming out of austerity mode.
And also I'm investing now more in our international markets.
We're making a substantial number of investments abroad to strengthen ourselves there.
And although those are going to cost me money in 2011 I think everybody will be happy we're making those investments in 2012 and 2013.
It's just the right thing for us to do.
In terms of uses of cash share buybacks will be part of our procedures but I also have to say going forward as I've looked at the three to five year plan for the company we're just going to have to step up M&amp;A.
I think it is the right thing for us to do.
And so Elisha and I are trying to figure out what's the best way to use our cash and we do that on a quarter-by-quarter basis based upon what's up ahead.
I think that we can achieve the vast majority of our growth goals for the period of the next three to five years from our organic growth but I think we need to supplement that organic growth.
And I believe the company throws off enough cash that we can easily accomplish that mission.
Long-term long-term our goal is to increase our EPS growth rate by -- in the 10% to 15% range.
I think I've been saying that for years we're going to go on doing that we have a plan for doing that.
And big opportunities to do that organically our international in the Proton business in our Service businesses in new products like TrueBeam that can really step it up in our Software businesses.
I think our Security business has huge potential and I believe that our Flat Panel business is a gigantic potential going forward.
That being said we need to supplement that with a little M&amp;A activity.
So a lot of the things that you're seeing in our P&amp;L reflect decisions that we're making inside the companies.
Some of which we can talk about and some of which we can't to make all of these things come true.
Inc.</strong> Just one quick follow-up if I may for Elisha.
Just to be very clear then on the guidance in the share repurchase I think what you mentioned to an earlier question is that this is kind of what you expected in your guidance is for the share count to go down.
But I can't recall your share count going down by 4 million to 5 million shares in any fiscal year that I've covered you.
So are you saying that you were planning on the accelerated share repurchase or something like that or in the aggressive share repurchase when you gave that guidance and that's why it really hasn't changed because it's only a couple months difference from where it would have been? Or is there anything else in the P&amp;L that also accounts for the lack of change in EPS guidance? I would say that the tax rate coming in is kind of the higher end of the range and we did assume that we would have a share repurchase.
I don't want to give you all the details as to the exact number that was assumed.
But what we did is we made it an accelerated share repurchase as opposed to an ongoing just daily open market repurchase program.
But yes we assumed in our guidance as we have more cash at this point than uses for with this virtually 0% interest rate with a very large share repurchase authorization that is granted to us by the board.
But yes we were going to step up our share repurchase program.
It was the form of repurchase that allowed us to get the full benefit of the reduction in basic shares outstanding by doing it on an accelerated basis.
Your next question comes from the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Tim I was hoping you could expand a little bit on some of the sites where you're seeing some of the strong uptake of TrueBeam? For example I think you said you had six at USMD three at Bayhealth.
Are you seeing a lot of the sales of TrueBeams go into centers where you're placing multiple units? And at those centers are you seeing more like are there upgrade in TrueBeam or are they expanding the number of units they have? Or is it something like -- or are you just placing competitors? Anything you can help us just characterize some of these orders in a little more detail.
Okay.
When we talk about units like six orders from one side or three orders from another side that remains unusual but we of course we like to brag about unusual things which is why we brought it up.
Now the majority of these deals are classic deals.
It's if the customer wants to replace an older machine and they have a machine that they think is either too old or they have a competitors machine that they don't think is working very well and so they want to replace it.
And they look at TrueBeam as an opportunity to upgrade their clinical and operational profile.
Because they got a machine that can do things they can never do before and they get a machine that's faster than anything they’ve had before.
Plus a lot of customers are moving towards stereotactic body radiation therapy.
So they're seeing it happen and they're looking at their existing machines and they're saying can these machines do SBRT? And if the answer is no and they want to bring SBRT into their program then they look on TrueBeam as a godsend for them something that can really help their clinical programs.
So it's an operational win and clinical win but otherwise know this is normal behavior normal buying behavior.
I will say I think your TrueBeam is doing well against the competition especially in North America because North America is where the predominant -- where we're seeing their earliest uptick for TrueBeam.
But I think TrueBeam does well against competitors all over the world.
I've been in a lot of meetings with customers recently.
Where they come in and talk about TrueBeam and they really don't see any other companies machines as being a match for what that machine can do.
So nice to see.
And in your prepared remarks you just talked about a very nice growth in X-ray and obviously came through in the reported numbers.
And I think you referenced a general recovery in the X-Ray imaging market is that really the underlying dynamics that's driving the strength there? Or is there something more variant-specific that's allowing you to outperform those expectations? Well we think that there is a recovery.
And that's the kind of thing that affects X-ray tubes.
But we also think that Flat Panels continue on their march.
This is -- we've been saying for years that Flat Panels are going to continue to grow and I think that's what we're seeing.
The Radiographic Panel business has been growing a lot.
But I have to say this last quarter we saw a lot of fluoroscopic dynamic panel growth.
So that was very nice to see.
And as a company we're in a kind of unique position.
Because when customers come to us and they need an imaging machine we can offer them both tubes and panels.
And so I think what you're seeing now maybe a little bit we've been kind of predicting this for a wide and hoping that it will come true.
In this quarter it did come true where we see people wanting to get both tubes and panels from us.
So that's another strategy that I think is working for us and should work more for us in the future.
And lastly for Elisha could you give us some sense as to where you exited the quarter from a share count perspective? I'm assuming that the modest sequential reduction even though you repurchased just 3.5 million shares has to do with quite a bit of options being exercised given the movement in the stock.
But how should we think about share counts for the balance of the year? Well as I mentioned we are effectively done with our share repurchase through August at this point.
We can go back into the market around mid-August so you will just need to take your assumptions on option exercises.
And the diluted share change depending on the stock price as well.
So all of those things that we will at least cannot buy more shares until we come out of the accelerated program which ends in the middle of August.
And how far below the 120.4 did you exit the quarter? I don't have that number in front of me and we're just not going to give the information out.
This is the only kind of share data that we've ever given and which an average over the quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of James Terwilliger with Duncan Williams.
Inc.</strong> Couple of quick questions.
First of all Tim could you talk a little bit about the developments in China over the last one to two months.
I believe you had maybe a clinical conference or a trade show and then you also received some sort of regulatory approval there.
Could you just update all of us on the developments in China in the last two months please? Yes.
First of all  we've been making -- we got SFDA approval for TrueBeam in China very nice to have because it means we can sell that product there.
Here we were in China a very important country for us and we were able to sell our high-end products so that's very nice to see.
We did restructure our sales organization in quarter one and quarter two and that restructuring is mostly complete at this point.
And so I think that the China sales team did well considering the fact that we had some significant organizational disruption over the course of the last six months.
But we needed to make some changes and now we've done them.
We did have a recent trade show and the response was really really excellent.
And that maybe what you're hearing about.
And so all of those things are good news for the future.
We are manufacturing more and more equipment in China.
The UNIQUE product is of course built there.
And with our manufacturer facility we're conducting more courses than ever and we're meeting with more customers than ever.
And so I'm feeling good about it.
And going forward I think China will be a strong locus of business.
Inc.</strong> Tim how should we think about China as a market? I mean in many different markets China has become number 2 behind the United States may past United States.
Clearly the U.S.
is your number 1 market you've got the EU and Japan.
How should we think about the market opportunity for Varian medical with TrueBeam from today going forward in the Chinese market as a whole? Yes I wish I could tell you the China market is monolithic in its behavior but it is not.
It is true that there is a substantial portion of the market that is interested in high-end machines like TrueBeam but there's a substantial portion of the market that can’t afford those machines and in these a lot less expensive machines.
So over time we're going to continue to try to create machines that match up with all the segments of the market the low-end segments and the high-end segment.
Our C-Series machine our standard bread-and-butter machine that we sell is doing very well in China.
It matches the need I think of the middle of the market.
Where I think we can do better over time is in getting to locations where there is less budget and that's where we're courting more and more [ph] to try and get at that.
I think China -- with the entry of TrueBeam into China I think that we will be able to address the needs of high-end customers better than we ever have before.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions on TrueBeam.
When I look at these 225-- approximately 225 orders for TrueBeam could you give me a ballpark percentage on where those orders are coming from? Is it 75% from the U.S.? Or is it less than that? We're going to do some math.
Hold on.
Yes okay.
It's about more than 65% and less than 70%.
And that's based upon unbelievably rapid arithmetic by people sitting in the room with me.
Inc.</strong> So if I would look at the current installs completed in progress of about 65% would that be a fair percentage? Maybe 70% 75% of those installs would all be here in the United States? Yes it's probably even higher than that because TrueBeam really started in the U.S.
the strongest.
And then you'll see that number pick up abroad overtime.
Inc.</strong> And then in terms of the average length and the trend in terms of TrueBeam is that coming down? And that will be my last question? Repeat the question.
I'm sorry.
Inc.</strong> The average length of time to install TrueBeam in the U.S.
could you have a ballpark figure of what that would be including training? And then is that number trending up or trending down? It's coming down.
Our installation costs are coming down for TrueBeam.
I think it's probably a little more than five weeks at this point which is still more than C-Series but it's coming down all the time.
Our service teams are just great.
I mean they've been growing their business and they've been-- we have some folks I'd like to name them all but Spencer would kill me.
But the fact is we have some people on our service team who've just done a fantastic job of driving down cycle times and costs.
Your next question comes from the line of Tycho Peterson with JPMorgan.
Jumping into the kind of the capital deployment comment and I think you've mentioned M&amp;A.
Can you just talk to I guess your appetite within Oncology or to move outside of Oncology? And then Elisha can you just remind us how much of the cash is overseas right now? The lion share is overseas Tycho.
It's still probably 90% overseas.
Because we're still in a debt position in the U.S.
So it's like obviously that makes international acquisitions cheaper for us than North America acquisition but it doesn't mean that we're not looking at North American acquisitions.
We're talking to I would say we're talking probably-- we're looking at more things than we've ever looked at.
But a lot of them are still small some of them will move the needle but they won't move it until 2014 or so.
But I think they're very important when you look at our three to five year prospects.
Some of them are new technologies things that you've never heard of before.
Others are companies that you already know about in the marketplace.
So it's a nice mix.
Everyone of them has a strategic element to it.
We're not looking at things that don't fit well with who we are as a company.
Everything fits well but it's a lot of work.
So in terms of how cash will look differently I don't think I can give you a quantifiable picture of that.
I don't think I really want to give you a quantifiable picture as to how our uses of cash will change in the future except to tell you that you should expect that we'll spend more money on M&amp;A and that will probably result in a little less spending on stock buybacks over time.
But in terms of any particular quarter or time period I just can't I can't tell you because these deals come to fruition at a pace of their own.
Okay.
And then on TrueBeam are you seeing meaningful change in terms of treatment application areas? So any new kind of clinical areas that are emerging more rapidly? And is anything coming out of the development mode that you...
I would say lung and liver are two areas where -- and I think some interest in pancreas.
Now pancreas is a relatively infrequent cancer so that's not probably going to make a big different in terms of numbers although it will make an unbelievable difference to cancer patients.
But lung and liver it's very high incidents of disease to lung and deliver and there I think if we can make a difference it will count.
We're also coming out with a new version of our software for TrueBeam in the next few months and that version enabled some of these techniques to be run in an even spiffier fashion than they currently can be done.
So I think we're going to see customers who get this software are going to be experimenting with it.
And I'm hoping that sometime in 2012 we'll see some nice papers about the clinical and technical results of using that capability.
And then last one just can you talk on what you're hearing out of D.C.? Any potential changes to reimbursement would be helpful just given that it’s that time of year.
I really haven't heard anything.
There were some discussions in I think in D.C.
about this issue of whether or not we should change Stark laws but that doesn't seem to be moving forward very fast with respect to radiation therapy.
And we are-- but in terms of reimbursement no.
I really can't say that I'm hearing anything.
We'll probably hear something in the summer but I'm not -- I'm listening to the tom toms in the jungle and I'm really not hearing a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Dalton Chandler with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Could you just remind us on the-- Japan winding down their stimulus spending? When will that annualized? It just did.
It ended at the end of the second quarter a year ago and this was-- we just graduated.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So that should help some with the comps going forward.
It does help with the comps going forward.
I think people are naturally concerned about North America but it does help in Japan.
And at this time I'd like to turn the presentation back over to Mr.
Sias for closing remarks.
Thank you for participating.
A replay of this call can be heard on the Varian investor website at www.varian.com/investor where it will be heard and archived for a year.
If you hear a telephone replay please dial 1 (888) 286-8010 from inside of the U.S.
Or 1 (617) 801-6888 from outside the U.S.
and enter the confirmation code number 43268063.
Telephone replay will be available through 5:00 p.m.
on Friday this April 29.
Thank you very much.
We thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude your presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Varian Medical Systems Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Tahisha and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Spencer Sias Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning -- or good afternoon and welcome to Varian Medical Systems Conference Call for the Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2011.
With me are Tim Guertin President and CEO; Elisha Finney CFO; and Tai Chen our Corporate Controller.
Tim and Elisha will summarize our results then we'll take your questions following the presentation.
To simplify our discussion unless otherwise stated all references to the quarter or year are fiscal quarters and fiscal years.
Quarterly comparisons are for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 versus the third quarter fiscal 2010.
Annual comparisons are for fiscal 2011 versus fiscal 2010.
All results are for continuing operations which exclude the sales of the research instruments portion of ACCEL.
Please be advised that this presentation and discussion contains forward-looking statements.
Our use of words and phrases such as outlook could should believe promising can estimate and similar expressions are intended to identify these statements which represent our current judgment on future performance or other future matters.
While we believe them to be reasonable based on information currently available to us these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of the important risks relating to our business are described in our third quarter earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements in this presentation and discussion because of new information future events or otherwise.
And now here's Tim.
Good afternoon and welcome.
Today for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 we are reporting financial results that demonstrate continued progress on our long-term growth strategy.
Demand for our newer products on oncology and X-ray products remained healthy during the quarter.
In summary revenues rose by 12% to $649 million.
Gross margin was lower than normal 43.1% for the quarter but is up by half a point year-to-date.
Net earnings were $0.83 per diluted share up 12% from the year-ago quarter.
Net orders were up in both our major businesses and our quarter-ending backlog increased by 10% to $2.3 billion.
And we ended the quarter with $568 million in cash and cash equivalents.
I'll focus now on orders and market conditions in each of our businesses and Elisha will then walk you through the financials.
Oncology Systems' third quarter net orders totaled $553 million up 9% with 18% growth in international markets and flat orders in North America.
Year-to-date Oncology Systems net orders are up 8% revenues are up 9% and operating profits are up 10%.
Asia net orders grew by 19% where our China business was particularly strong driven mainly by high-end systems and leading cancer centers.
China celebrated its first TrueBeam installation at Shantou Medical Center with an opening ceremony that garnered international media coverage.
In Japan we saw a return to quarter-over-quarter order growth in spite of the earthquake and tsunami that that country experienced earlier this year.
In our European Middle East and Africa territory net orders grew by 8% with notable wins in Scotland Norway Saudi Arabia Russia Turkey and Belgium.
In Scotland Varian was awarded an order for 10 linear accelerators including 8 TrueBeams.
That's part of a national procurement project to replace aging accelerators in the country's 5 radiotherapy centers.
We've also received an order for 2 TrueBeams in Belfast Northern Ireland.
Business doubled in our rest of world territory.
Central and South America performed particularly well with wins in Brazil Mexico Uruguay Argentina and Panama.
Net orders were flat in North America versus a strong rebound in the year-ago quarter.
We saw a strong demand for our TrueBeam platform which made up the majority of high-energy machine orders in this market.
Year-to-date we believe we've gained significant share in North America where our net orders are up by 10%.
We booked an order for 5 TrueBeams at the Central Arkansas Radiation Therapy Institute while the University of Colorado ordered 3 TrueBeams 2 of which will replaced competitor units and one which will go into a new radiosurgery suite.
Overall we had another terrific quarter for our TrueBeam product with more than 60 orders bringing the total to almost 300 orders since the product was introduced just a little more than a year ago.
The take rate for TrueBeam represented more than 40% of all high-energy machines ordered globally.
Installations of TrueBeam are proceeding smoothly with more than 100 installations complete or in progress as of the end of the quarter.
While it contributed to higher installation costs early in the third quarter by the end of the quarter we reached a 4-week installation time.
This approaches the installation time for the rest of our accelerators.
And as you may have seen in our recent press release during the quarter we received Shoenen clearance to market and sell TrueBeam in Japan.
With clearance for China achieved in the prior quarter we continue to open up important markets where I expect this device can make a meaningful difference in the treatment of lung liver and other cancers.
We recently showcased TrueBeam at the World Conference for Lung Cancer in Amsterdam where the thoracic surgeons and radiation oncologists discussed radiosurgery as a more viable treatment choice for certain cases of lung cancer.
Early TrueBeam treatments for both inoperable and operable lung cancer patients were outlined in papers and presentations during the meeting.
These included several by VUmc in Amsterdam where pioneering lung cancer treatments are delivered on 2 TrueBeam devices.
A presidential symposium presentation by doctors at VUmc detailed a nationwide study which showed a significant rise in survival rates for elderly lung cancer patients treated using radiosurgery.
As you may have seen from press announcements TrueBeam was an R&amp;D 100 Award Winner and was recognized internationally with the Red Dot design award.
Services also continued to drive growth for our Oncology business with mid-teen increases in both net orders and sales.
We've got good news on the reimbursement front.
During the quarter we've proposed rates that should not materially impact the market.
CMS announced 2012 proposals for freestanding clinics and hospitals that are relatively benign and reinforce our view that some radiation oncology codes will be reduced gradually over time.
With a modest 4% cut in radiation oncology codes for freestanding clinics and a 1% increase in codes for hospitals the CMS proposals are considerably less draconian than the original suggestion of a 20% cut in IMRT rates.
Before turning away from Oncology I want to touch on a strategic investment we made in the quarter.
As we announced earlier we made a $15 million minority equity investment in Augmenix which is developing products to improve radiotherapy outcomes.
This agreement gives Varian an option to acquire the rest of Augmenix.
Augmenix makes a liquid hydrogel that is injected between the prostate and the rectum.
Once injected the hydrogel solidifies within seconds to move the rectum away from the prostate helping to reduce the amount of radiation that goes to the rectum during radiotherapy.
Augmenix SpaceOAR System is commercially approved for sale in select European countries and Australia.
In the United States SpaceOAR is under a clinical investigation and will require a submission of premarket approval application or PMA an approval by the FDA before being commercialized.
We believe this investment represents a potentially promising growth area for our market.
And we'll continue to look at acquisitions as part of our growth strategy.
Turning to X-ray products we continue to see double-digit growth in net orders during the quarter for this business.
Revenues increased by 18% to $121 million.
Both tubes and flat-panel image detectors contributed to the strong growth in net orders and revenues during the quarter.
X-ray tubes for CT scanners mammography and replacements in the aftermarket drove growth in our tube business while radiographic panels led the continued expansion of our image detector business.
We were notified during the quarter that our panels will be incorporated in a new mammography system and we see this as a particularly promising future growth area for this business.
To update you on Japan we are hearing that customer demand will be somewhat weaker in the fourth quarter due to reduced production schedules caused by power shortages stemming from the natural disaster.
For example one of our larger customers informed us that they will be shutting down for about 2 weeks because of the power shortage.
Switching now to our Other category including our SIP and Security and Inspection Products business and our Particle Therapy business.
We generated combined net orders of $17 million for the quarter down 12% from the year-ago quarter.
Although some anticipated cargo screening orders came through in the quarter others were delayed and has negatively affected our security business.
Additionally we expect a delay in the fourth quarter of a large shipment to a customer in the Middle East.
In our Particle Therapy business we continue to see progress on construction of APT's Scripps Proton Therapy Center in San Diego.
And we expect to book an $88 million order to equip that center when project financing is completed.
During the quarter we signed a contract with APT to equip the Proton Therapy Center at the University of Maryland and again we will wait until the financing is complete before booking an order.
It was a landmark event for our Particle Therapy team in Germany where we successfully commissioned our first production-line Cyclotron and generated a proton beam and a test cell that is fast enough to travel around the world 4x in a second.
This milestone was achieved on the Cyclotron that is bound for the Scripps facility in San Diego next month.
And now here is Elisha.
Great.
Thanks Tim.
And hello everyone.
While Tim has already covered net orders I want to briefly talk about the constant currency growth rate for the quarter.
Oncology grew net orders by 9% in dollars or 5% in constant currency.
Given the continued quarter-over-quarter weakness of the dollar against most currencies Oncology's European net orders growth rate was 8% in dollars and down 1% in constant currency.
And the Far East was up 19% in dollars and 13% in constant currency.
Third quarter revenues increased 12% to $649 million with constant currency growth of 9%.
Oncology Systems posted a 12% increase in revenues.
X-ray products posted a gain of 18% and revenues from businesses under the Other category decreased by 18%.
Year-to-date total company revenues are up 10%.
The third quarter gross margin for the company fell by nearly 1 point to 43.1%.
Oncology Systems gross margin decreased by 1 point to 43.9% due primarily to product retrofits and product mix shifts.
The majority of Oncology's gross margin decline in the quarter was due to increased spending on product retrofits as part of a heightened effort to ensure that all of our products can continue to be safe and effective when used in accordance with clinical quality standards.
TrueBeam installations ramped up rapidly in the quarter.
While the required learning curve impacted the gross margin early in the quarter we made great progress at improving the efficiency of our TrueBeam installations which now can be completed in just 4 weeks.
Year-to-date the Oncology gross margin is roughly even with the year-ago period at 45.5%.
X-ray Products gross margin rose by 1 point to 41.2%.
Higher volume channel mix and lower cost of quality led to this improvement.
The Other category also saw a significant decline in the gross margin primarily because of a higher cost estimate for commissioning the Munich Proton Treatment Center.
Year-to-date the total company gross margin is up by half a point to 44.5%.
Third quarter SG&amp;A expenses were $95 million or 15% of revenues equal as a percentage of revenues to the year-ago quarter.
Third quarter R&amp;D expenses were $44 million or 7% of revenue also equal as a percentage of revenue to the year-ago quarter.
On a combined basis operating expenses were about even for the year-ago period at 21% of revenue.
Moving down the income statement third quarter operating earnings were up 7% to $140 million or 22% of revenue.
Year-to-date operating earnings were up 11% to 23% of revenue.
Depreciation and amortization totaled $13 million for the quarter.
The effective tax rate was 29.9% for the quarter up almost 1 point from the year-ago period due primarily to a shift in the geographic mix of earnings.
For fiscal year 2011 we continue to estimate that the tax rate will be in the range of 31% to 32%.
Fully diluted shares outstanding decreased 5.4 million shares from the year-ago quarter due largely to the accelerated share repurchase program.
Diluted earnings per share rose 12% to $0.83.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $568 million debt of $18 million and stockholders' equity of $1.5 billion.
DSO increased by 1 day from the year-ago quarter to 81.
Third quarter cash flow from operations was $121 million.
The primary use of cash was $119 million mainly to pay down the line of credit that was drawn to support our accelerated share repurchases.
We have approximately 12 million shares remaining under the repurchase authorization which is in effect through fiscal year 2012.
Now I'll turn it back to Tim for the outlook.
Thanks Elisha.
While we continue to estimate that revenues for fiscal year 2011 could grow to 10% to 11% over the fiscal 2010 total we now believe that net earnings per diluted share from continuing operations for the year could grow by about 16% to be in the range of $3.42 to $3.45.
And we're now ready for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Dalton Chandler from Needham &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Let me ask about the retrofit you mentioned that impacted the gross margin.
That's the first time I recall you talking about that.
Was there some event that triggered this? Or what's driving it here? Well Dalton we're a medical device business so we're constantly -- I would say over my entire history with the company I've seen us take -- do retrofits.
So when we see something in the field where we want to make sure that we take preventative action to prevent some problem or other we do retrofits.
This quarter we just had -- we booked a larger amount of money -- for money that we're going to spend over the next year or so than we usually would.
And that amount was large enough to have a significant impact on the Oncology number.
But Oncology has been booking these for years and years and years it's just that this number was a little larger than usual and so we drew your attention to it.
That's really all there is.
There's nothing special.
LLC</strong> Okay so the way you're accounting for this it will only impact this quarter? That's right.
So even though we may -- if we decide to do a retrofit that will take a year but we decided to do it for preventative reasons then we take the money now and then we'll spend it over a period of a year.
So that's how we do it.
Yes a portion of it a large portion was actually expensed in the quarter Dalton.
And then another portion was a reserve for future activities that we're going to undertake.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And so should we assume we'll see the gross margin bounce back in the fourth quarter? Well if you take a look at the guidance that -- once you fold it into your model there you will see that in order to hit the 23% RoS projection that we've said yes we are going to see gross margin up both for the fourth quarter and for the full year somewhere approaching a 1 point improvement to be offset a little bit by the higher SG&amp;A spending as a lot of the cost controls in it were actually we're investing for the future growth that we see.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And just a final question do you have the dollar amount that was associated with the share repurchase in the quarter? There was no -- because we did the accelerated share repurchase program in the prior quarter Dalton there was no actual cash amount in Q3.
Your next question comes from the line of David Roman from Goldman Sachs.
I was hoping I'd just a little dive a little bit more into the gross margin line.
It sounds as though there were potentially some one-time factors or some timing factors that negatively impacted the margin in the quarter whether it was the timing of the retrofit issue.
If we were to sort of look at the gross margin on a more -- can you maybe help us think about a sort of more normalized gross margin for the quarter? And could you quantify sort of the impact of that? Yes.
Well the Oncology margin was down 120 basis points quarter-over-quarter.
Of course we saw an improvement in the year-ago quarter so that the base line was a little different.
The vast majority of that and I can't give you the specific number data but the vast majority of that so you should assume somewhere close to a point was due to the retrofit cost that we've already talked about.
Okay that's helpful.
And then if you look at X-ray it continues to be very strong for you.
And I think at the Analyst Meeting you had commented that your view on the end-user market was somewhere in the kind of flattish range.
Can you maybe sort of talk a little bit about what's driving the outperformance in your business relative to the market and especially given that that has sort of continued over from last quarter? I'm sorry I missed that point about the flattish range.
Could you repeat that again? You had said that the X-ray market was kind of flat I think at the Analyst Meeting.
And you're obviously growing much faster than that.
Are these competitor issues given that a number of these competitors are Japanese-based or anything in there that we should think about as we head through the balance of the year and into fiscal '12? Okay.
I don't have that video of what I said so I'll have to try and use my memory.
But generally X-ray tubes does not grow as fast as flat panels.
But flat panels is nowhere like flat.
It's continued to grow considerably.
What's kind of surprised us a little bit this year is the tubes have been stronger than usual.
Some of that is just simply because some of our big customers are buying more tubes from us than usual and especially considering circumstances that you'd think might hurt us.
So both of them have been double digits and that is nice to see and kind of remarkable for the year.
Panels are continually being driven up by rad panels.
There's fluoroscopic panels and there's rad panels and our rad panels have been doing really really well.
And we're just seeing a market recovery in this area.
The Japan impact has been very limited.
So far I've mentioned in my remarks that we might see some OEM customers who are limited in what they can take in the future by power shortages especially in the fourth quarter.
I can't name those companies but you might be able to figure it out.
We believe that our rad panels are gaining share.
We think the global imaging industry is showing some recovery.
And that's nice to see.
So we're aiming for the mid-teens growth in this business and we just introduced the mammographic panel that we think is going to be incorporated -- not -- I mean the incorporation processes is going on now.
So maybe in a year you'll start to see products with that panels.
So in late 2012 and 2013 I'm hoping we can see some mammographic business that are added.
And our anode-grounded tubes are performing extremely well and people really like them.
So I think all of those things bode well for that business.
It's just been very very well-managed.
Your next question comes from the line of Amit Bhalla from Citigroup.
The overseas Oncology order book that was particularly strong.
You talked about a number of large orders.
I'm just curious in the release that you've put out also after the close on the Scottish order was that fully recognized in this fiscal quarter? And can you just talk about the other ones if they were all right? Yes it was a Q3 order.
Okay and it was fully recognized in this quarter? Yes.
Now I will point out that the newspaper article when it talked about a GBP 22 million pound deal that was the total amount.
Varian is a significant portion of that but there are other diagnostic imaging systems that went into that as well.
Right.
We're the majority but there are other things in that order.
Okay great.
And then in terms of the U.S.
business it was flat.
Tim in the past you've given us some qualitative comments on the performance of Linac versus software versus Brachy.
Could you parse those 3 out for the U.S.
business and talk about any trends there? Well Brachy I don't think is a big factor for us.
It's not a big growth area.
It's I think in aggregate for us for the world it's about a $70 million business.
So that's -- I don't think Brachy growth is going to be a driver.
Linac units are up and so that's good.
Service grew in the mid-teens.
So we had very good performance in service.
Oh that's true.
Yes.
I mentioned that TrueBeam has been a good driver for us continues to be a good driver in the U.S.
We had 12% order growth in Q3 of last year.
So that -- well everybody recognized that was going to be a tough comp and indeed it did turn out to be a tough comp for us in this quarter.
So...
So I may have just missed that because if U.S.
orders were flat but it looked like Linacs were up service was up and brachy's a non-factor how was the business flat then? Well there's other elements -- Linacs were up worldwide.
Sorry I got that wrong.
I've just been signaled.
Linacs were not up in the U.S.
it was they were up worldwide.
Okay.
And any magnitude of how much they were down in the U.S.? I don't have that number.
And I'd probably wouldn't usually break that out.
The next question comes from the line of Sean Lavin from Lazard Capital Markets.
Just wanted to quickly follow up on the oncology gross margin.
I just want to make sure I understood Elisha said that the retrofitting should not impact the fourth quarter is that correct? Sean unfortunately I'm having a hard time hearing you.
It did impact Q3 both we have expenses that were higher than normal in Q3 as well as a reserve that was taken for retrofit.
Is your question related to Q4? Right.
We should not see an impact again in Q4? Well let me just say every quarter there is a certain level of retrofit activity that goes on in Q3 because of this heightened focus there was a higher than normal.
We don't anticipate being higher than normal in Q4 from where I sit today.
Okay.
And then looking at TrueBeam.
At this point either in the quarter at the end of the quarter are installations now improving gross margins or are they still below overall gross margins? TrueBeam is pulling up gross margins in general.
Even with the higher installation cost which is why we didn't tell you that TrueBeam was a negative impact on gross margin.
It's a positive impact on gross margins.
What we're telling you is we think it can be even more of a positive impact on gross margins going forward.
Just in the quarter we noticed an improvement.
So that means that our learning curves are working things are getting positive plus we just graduated it's been our first year of building TrueBeam.
The factory knows how to build them better.
We're bringing down our production times we hope to be able to get some of our product cost down.
So we think that TrueBeam can even be a more of a stronger contributor in the future than it is now.
We got 300 orders and we've shipped and installed 100.
So we have this big bolus of TrueBeam orders and if we can get our cost down and get our installation times down all of those things work for us.
Are you willing to quantify at all where they may be now in terms of margins or where you think they may be able to go? We don't break it out as a particular product but of course I'm going to work that into my -- next quarter when I give you the guidance for next year I'll sort of try to work all of that into that guidance picture.
Your next question comes from the line of Tycho Peterson from JP Morgan.
Maybe just getting a little bit more into the dynamics in the U.S.
market.
Tim you mentioned share gains.
Can you just talk about the competitive dynamics? Obviously you've got 2 competitors going through a merger here so has there been some disruption or is it kind of traditional gains against Siemens and others? So you're talking about the Accuray and Tomo merger.
Honestly I think the Accuray and Tomo merger has probably been disruptive for the organization like any merger of this size it probably would be.
So we're going to see what happens over time and most likely anything I say about them they will say is wrong.
But my impression is that Tomo has continued to show weakness and that Accuray has been preoccupied.
We do think we're seeing share gain versus Elekta especially in the United States.
And it's hard for us to know everything until Elekta release and Accuray both release their numbers which they do after us.
So we'll understand those figures better.
But certainly in the U.S.
based upon last business reports we think we're doing a very very well and we are probably gaining share against them in Europe.
And I'll probably have to know more about Asia when I see more numbers.
And then in light of your comments on the Linac performance in the U.S.
earlier can you just talk about your view of the underlying market growth? It's been a while since you've talked about kind of the age of the installed base but talk maybe a little bit about replacement cycle and where you see that process.
Well we continue to see a significant number of units that are over 10 years old.
So there's a huge opportunity there.
The U.S.
market ought to be buying more units than it is buying right now.
When we see this level of buying it means that the installed base is aging.
And so for all of those reasons I believe that there is a huge potential opportunity in the U.S.
to increase the size of the replacement market.
There was a lot of concern just a month ago about reimbursement I think some of those concerns have been alleviated especially for the hospital market and so that behavior was I think is good.
I think the remaining residual concern in the U.S.
market is for us is the same as it is for lots of other companies.
And that is as the country struggles to deal with both the recession and the desire for reduction of the national debt at the same time how is that issue going to be resolved in Washington and what impact would it have on Medicare reimbursement rates.
And also as unemployment stays high what effect will that have on decisions by hospitals as to how to spend their money.
So all of those factors are contributing to hospitals maybe not being as decisive about things as they should.
I would hope we would have cleared all of this by now as a national issue but we haven't.
And so under these circumstances I think the U.S.
market for us -- well I believe it would've grown a lot more if these issues had been clear.
And I'm hoping that as we proceed into 2012 there will be additional clearance and we'll be able to see some growth.
That being said our U.S.
backlog is very strong.
Our backlog for oncology is as strong as we've ever seen it.
Our U.S.
backlog is very very strong and I expect that in 2012 and 2013 we're going to see a lot of that business come out.
So I guess I would say I'm reasonably optimistic about the U.S.
market but I can't predict it quarter-by-quarter how it's going to behave.
Okay.
And then just to make sure we're clear on the retrofit issue because you did call it out as an item on the margins and we had heard a little bit of rumblings about this during the quarter.
Could you just talk a little bit about how widespread the issue is and what's actually entailed here? Do you have to go in and replace the equip's package or what is actually needed and how did it come to your attention? Yes it wasn't my intent to talk during this meeting about specific retrofits.
We tell our customers what retrofits we have informed our customers of everything that we plan to do.
They already know when we set aside the money to do these things it's usually because we've already sent a letter to our customers announcing what it is that we're going to do.
But just part of a general effort on our part we have a large customer base and there's been a lot of scrutiny of the radiation therapy field and the safety of the field.
And so we're in a position where if something happens twice even if the machine did exactly what it's supposed to do but we can see how something happened twice and we don't want it to happen 3 times and we're going to ask ourselves what it takes to keep that from happening.
And so we make preventative changes to our design.
And those preventative changes to design when we decide to implement them cost us money and we set aside the money to go do them.
And usually we hit those retrofits with a bang which is why Elisha had pointed out that we probably spent a lot of that money in the third quarter because once we release them we turn the floodgates on to go do as many as we can in a very short period of time.
Generally this kind of retrofits can take about a year to complete.
And this particular quarter I drew attention to them because it was kind of a bolus of decisions to do these things.
But I have to tell you they go on all the time.
They've gone all the time and they've gone on all the time for the last 10 years.
So it's just that there was a little bit of a bolus and so -- and it affected the gross margin for oncology this quarter and so I'm telling you about it.
Okay.
Then just lastly on capital deployment.
You talked about M&amp;A last quarter.
You obviously made the equity investment in Augmenix.
Talk a little bit about your thoughts on tuck-in deals and also how we should think about Augmenix being rolled out.
Right.
We continue to look at lots of possibilities and as those things turn real of course we will tell you about them.
So I can't tell you about anything but I will say that there seem to opportunities for us to look at and we'll continue to talk to people and look at those opportunities.
Not all of them would be acquisitions some of them will be investments.
I think in the past we used to think of these things as either they would be a partner company or they would be -- we would buy them but we wouldn't invest in them.
And now we're looking at opportunities to invest going forward and own some small percentage of those companies just so we can be involved with them and maybe have them go in a direction that's favorable to Varian in the long-term.
Speaking specifically of Augmenix it was $15 million investment with an option to buy.
I felt that the technology was very promising.
Rectal toxicities are always a concern in prostate radiation therapy.
And although IMRT reduced them a lot and to a reasonably low level as we look at hypofractionated prostate in the future where prostate patients get treated in 5 days instead of 40 days there was a possibility that we would see those rectal complications rise.
And in fact in the early studies of IMRT to the prostate over 5 days you do see rectal toxicities rise and therefore we felt that the reduction that using a product like Augmenix would make things better.
So I believe that it's a good idea for Varian to identify these things that aren't necessarily our traditional market.
They aren't traditionally what we make or sell but they are things that radiation therapists will want to buy or at least we'll want to encourage for example urologists or thoracic surgeons to buy and then get involved.
So these are markets that aren't our main market but they're cousins.
And having a strong relationship with them I think is good for us.
So there's a whole host of these.
And I think over the next year or so you'll be hearing me talk about a lot more.
Your next question comes from the line of Amit Hazan.
Inc.</strong> I thought maybe I'd go back for a second to talk about oncology orders and the unit question that was brought up earlier and maybe think about in North America and EMEA and try to ask you -- I know Elisha there is more to it than what was said.
So if I kind of just frame it we had TrueBeam being 40% of orders and we had service up in the midteens that would imply if it was just as straightforward as having units as being the other factor that units were probably down pretty significantly.
I know that's not the case because there's other stuff there.
So can you kind of just help us understand what the unit trend has been not just this quarter but just roughly speaking where units have been either up or down in the U.S.
market? Well unit trend worldwide has been up.
And I think year-to-date units have been up in the U.S.
So this is just a one quarter one point on the graph trend.
So it's a -- this is an event not a trend.
Inc.</strong> Well I mean if I can push on that a little bit more.
In a similar situation last quarter right I mean your service was up midteens and TrueBeam was a much bigger portion of your units so it helped your ASPs.
And so it's just I mean is it if we look at the last year is it a fact that units were up in the last year in the U.S.? Units were up last year in the U.S.
in the third quarter yes.
That was part of the 12% growth we had during that period of time.
So what we're saying is that the mix of TrueBeam is I don't know what the mix of TrueBeam would have been in the third quarter of last year but it was pretty good.
I think it was pretty good.
And so -- I don't know if it was better in this quarter or not.
It was better in this quarter than it was a year ago.
So that would have driven up pricing in the U.S.
but if unit volumes were down a little bit those 2 effects sort of neutralize each other.
Inc.</strong> Well maybe let me ask this similar question about Europe then.
So the EMEA was down 1% in constant currency and it looks like you had more TrueBeam sales out there than you had last year.
A similar question there in that region I guess more importantly the near term have you seen any additional weakness that you could characterize whether from austerity measures in the periphery or we'd heard from other companies that the U.K.
was getting weaker as well so far this year.
Are you seeing any of that is that what's driving? We're seeing certain countries in Europe weaken a lot.
And that has an effect on the overall.
In other words it's not a monolithic affect inside Europe.
Some countries are fine like we mentioned Scotland and Scotland is way up.
But other countries can be considerably down.
And those countries are the ones you read about in the newspaper.
Amit the only other thing I would add is I mean we saw the largest amount of the growth quarters in the quarter and our Rest of World region.
They don't tend to be buying the TrueBeam so we had some -- I mean these are largely government bids.
We talked about Panama Latin America.
I mean these are lower-priced units.
And so there's a lot that goes into -- you can't just say TrueBeam's are up and so orders need to be up.
There's just a lot of other factors that go into that.
So if you're trying to figure what's going on in the European market all I can tell holistically is that certain countries are off in Europe.
And that is why in constant currency terms Europe is roughly flat this quarter.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then the last one for me just thinking over the course of the next year.
I know you're not ready to give guidance yet but Elisha just share kind of your long-term thinking had always been that we should see about 50 basis points of operating margin improvement on an annual basis is it still okay that we think about it in those terms? Well I'm not giving guidance into fiscal year '12 at this point.
But we still have the same goals and that is that we're going to be somewhere in the long term 10% to 15% and that we will strive for a 50 basis point improvement in the EBIT margin up to we've talked about you start to hit a wall at the 25% 26% range but we will -- that will be what we're striving for.
Your next question comes from the line of Roche [ph] from Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> This is Anthony for Roche [ph].
I just want to focus on China a bit.
For one the TrueBeam how was that actually classified in China? I'm assuming it would be a Class 3 device.
And if it is it would be subjected to more stringent import hurdles from the Ministry of Health.
I'm just wondering how that would play into the whole implementation cycle for TrueBeam in China.
And just a follow-up to that would be the learning curve that you've accelerated with TrueBeam in terms of implementations is that transferable to China or do you have a reset button due to local market logistics? Let me start with the first part of your question.
All I can say at this meeting is it is cleared for us to import into China.
And that process did take a long time but it did happen.
I don't know that that process was anymore arduous for TrueBeam than it is for any other product that we tried to get cleared into China.
We're certainly not Class 3 in the U.S.
FDA.
I don't know what the classification is in China but I doubt that it's Class 3 but I don't know.
So I can tell you today is that it was cleared and that's good news.
What was the second part of your question again? Inc.</strong> The installation cycle here overall has improved for TrueBeam.
Is that immediately transferable to China or do you have to sort of set a reset button there just because of a new market? China -- well any country where we're starting installing for the first time obviously the local service teams are responsible for the installs.
Generally what we will do when the product is new to a country is we will send in experts from either in the United States or Europe into China probably to help with those but we have already done one install in China.
And that one went extremely well.
So I don't anticipate a big problem in China.
We're certainly way down the learning curve in terms of the kind of teething problems you have whenever you introduce something new.
We've just introduced several new versions of the software that have made things go easier for our installers.
So for all of those reasons I don't think we are going to be anywhere near where the U.S.
was when it started but you're always going to have a learning curve when in a particular country just because the local teams have to learn about the product.
Inc.</strong> That's helpful.
And just last for me in terms of capital deployment would one use of cash potentially be using the balance sheet for future Proton therapy contracts in various locations around the world? Absolutely.
Yes as I talked about on numerous occasions it is very likely that Varian will be participating as a lender or through deferred payment terms.
The good news is we have determined that we're able to use our international cash.
And even if it's a U.S.
investment in a Proton Therapy Center as a lender we can do that.
So it will be putting a significant potentially amount of money and earning higher than 0% to 1% that we're getting today.
And your next question comes from the line of Junaid Husain from Ticonderoga Securities.
Tim we have been hearing about some peer pushback on IMRT for breast cancer earlier this year.
Dow had touched on it briefly during the midyear review back in May.
Can you give us an update on whether this pushback is continuing? I think there's private insurers who are pushing back on IMRT for breast cancer.
I mean I can tell you that breast cancer -- IMRT doses for breast are better than our non-IMRT doses for breast.
You produce fewer hotspots it's just -- it is a better treatment.
But there are certain insurance companies that want to see long-term data on that.
And I don't think it has worsened over the course of the last 9 months but it's the same kind of grumbling on the part of certain insurance companies.
I can't say that I've seen pushback from Medicare.
I don't know of any pushback from Medicare so this would be private insurance.
Got it.
And then switching gears a bit in talking about capital deployment.
When I look at the land the label land in radiation oncology there's not a lot of I can see that could materially move the Varian sales and earnings needle mostly onesy-twosy type of acquisitions.
Would you agree with that statement? No.
Care to elaborate? I can't really elaborate.
No.
All right fair enough.
Well then my last question for you on the medical conference front.
The AAPM meeting starts this weekend and then we've got ASTRO about 2 months in Miami Beach.
Great venue by the way.
Anything that we should be on the lookout for at either these meetings either key presentations or maybe a sneak at new products? Yes it's a good question it's a little early for me to talk about that.
At AAPM we'll be of course talking about the improvements that we've made.
In terms of ASTRO projections why don't you let me just closer to ASTRO before I start talking about that.
I think my competitors listen to all my remarks and I'd rather not send too many signals before I have to.
But I will say we're spending a lot of money in R&amp;D and by goodness I think we're going to come out with some nice things over time that our customers are going to love and our competitors are going to hate.
Ladies and gentlemen we have no more questions at this time.
Well thank you for participating.
A replay of this call can be heard on the Varian investor website at  www.varian.com/investor where we'll archive it for a year.
Telephone replay is available and you can dial 1-(888)-286-8010 from inside the U.S.
or 1-(617) 801-6888 from outside the U.S.
and enter confirmation code number 94903998.
Telephone replay will be available through 5:00 p.m.
this Friday.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes the line of Amit Bhalla with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start just with the revenues in the quarter.
And if I remember back to fiscal 4Q '10 the Oncology business missed in that period also.
There was a number of delivery push outs install time issues et cetera.
And this quarter Oncology Systems revenue also fell short of our expectation and consensus.
Can you just walk through what happened in Oncology? Sure.
Let me start Amit by saying that Oncology was within spitting distance of our expectation.
So the impact was really from our other businesses and so I'm happy to walk you through that.
The revenue in deposits came from some slightly different places than we had first expected.
SIP and X-ray Products were down on a combined basis somewhere between $12 million and $13 million in the quarter.
And as you know X-ray Products we had the issue in Japan which impacted us somewhat and most of this coming from SIP which is just a very lumpy business and where we had push-outs in the quarter.
Good news is that the SIP sales target for FY '12 looks very strong so we will make those up as we move into next year.
At the proton business we had built in some proton revenue and let me just say that that SIP and X-ray revenue was at about a 40% margin.
So that was down and in return we had higher-than-expected Proton Therapy revenue in the quarter and that's at a 0% margin.
So as you know that was not exactly a fair trade if you will on the top line.
Fortunately the -- as I mentioned oncology was within spitting distance of what we were expecting.
But we did have some territorial mix that impacted it.
We had unprecedented quarter-over-quarter changed in FX rates and so as we sat down and looked at revenue around the globe when you converted that into dollar depending on where that revenue came from you could get very different results.
So I'm actually quite proud that we got -- that within -- that we hit the 10% number and that the Oncology gross margin made up a lot of difference because it came in significantly higher than what we were expecting.
And then the last thing I would add in terms of the Q4 that was a little odd is because of the intra-quarter wild fluctuations in FX we had a $2 million hedging loss that flowed through SG&amp;A from just doing our balance sheet hedges.
That is fairly unprecedented we tend to be closer to maybe $0.5 million up or down and had $2 million in the quarter from those FX losses.
So that's really kind of where the changes were from what we initially expected.
Research Division</strong> So just to follow up there.
For Oncology so there wasn't any issues with install timer push outs? And then secondly can you just -- Tim you said that linear accelerators were up worldwide were they up in North America? We were trying -- I'm trying to think back if we were talking about orders or sales when we were talking about the units.
I think we were talking about orders.
We were talking about orders yes.
I think we were talking about orders.
So the global order units were up.
And then the U.S.
yes the units placements would have been up I mean we saw again we saw 10% growth in sales for North America so that was quite healthy.
Research Division</strong> And I just want to ask you a quick guidance question or just to understand what's implied inside these -- in the numbers.
In fiscal 2012 if I assume that there is roughly like $44 million of Calypso and Proton revenue that adds about 200 basis points to the number to guidance.
Can you tell me how much you're assuming in your guidance? And also for fiscal 4Q how much Calypso was in the Oncology order book? There was -- in the fourth quarter there was nothing.
That was an acquisition that was made subsequent to quarter end.
I would just tell you that Calypso had annualized sales of somewhere around $15 million.
We do believe that Calypso can help our orders -- topline orders next year by about a point or so.
You're going to get some lag on that turning into revenue growth because again we tend to -- our expectation is we will bundle most of these with the oncology sale and they'll be in backlog for about 12 to 15 months.
So we feel very good about the orders for Calypso moving into FY '12 most of the revenue bumps won't come until FY '13.
In terms of protons that's a -- boy it's a tough one.
Unfortunately it's not going to move the EPS number but it can make your margins look very strange.
We are expecting somewhere close to $20 million additional revenue for the Scripps project in FY '12 and I would give that a fairly high probability just given that we are already delivering under that contract.
There could be additional revenue as high as a total of $50 million if we were to get another order depending on when that comes in the year and how much of the percentage of completion we have completed by that time.
So again that's why we're putting a range around this but the Proton business is going to put some volatility in that number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're 8% to 9% -- I'm sorry your 9% to 11% revenue growth is -- includes about 200 basis points from those 2 issues? Yes it includes about $20 million of Proton revenue that again we're pretty confident of and you can assume somewhere around another $25 million or so that we're just estimating could be potential revenue with if and when we book an additional order.
But I think in terms of -- the point that we should make is in terms of guidance on EPS Calypso loses money next year the Proton business that we're booking makes no profit so we're making that increase in our EPS through organic measures and...
Margin improvement.
Margin improvements and so that I think that -- I think we have what $0.05 of...
$0.05 to $0.06 for Calypso and it's a little loaded more in the first half than the second because we have some transaction costs and severance and those were for paying in Q1.
And then some people will be transitioning off in the consultants and whatnot.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
First Elisha just -- you talked about the gross margin impact from the Proton order.
I espied just for the gross margins for the Proton order I actually get stronger GM's than I guess we were expecting.
I wonder if you could kind of walk us through some of the dynamics that may have attributed to stronger underlying gross margin trends whether it was easing some retrofit issues from last quarter or a TrueBeam? No it was largely driven by TrueBeam.
We -- our Oncology had a very strong margin 45% in the quarter it was up 167 basis points quarter-over-quarter largely driven by higher percentage of TrueBeam at a higher margin and some improved installation and warranty costs as we continue to get faster on the -- on these installations.
The X-ray Products margin as I mentioned was roughly even with the year-ago quarter.
We're seeing a little bit of pricing pressure with the RAD panels and some mix between tubes and panels tend to drive that margin as well.
So really the total impact of the gross margin came from bookings $33 million of revenue at a 0 margin.
If you were to strip out Scripps the total company gross margin would would've been up 140 basis points quarter-over-quarter.
So a very good margin performance.
Research Division</strong> Great very helpful.
And then maybe Elisha one more question on fiscal '12 guidance.
Can you just give us a sense in terms of your service business which has been kind of a powerful driver of growth.
How you expect that service business to perform in fiscal '12 versus fiscal '11? Yes it had done very very well.
The -- I'm not going to sit here and say that level of performance is going to continue indefinitely but I think we will definitely see double-digit performance in the service business.
Somewhere around the 10% to 12% range.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if we could -- just pick back up on Calypso a little bit and I just have a couple -- one logistical question can you just remind us where the amortization gets booked through to the P&amp;L? And of the $0.05 to $0.06 how much of that is really noncash versus cash expense.
Then a follow-up to that would be just as it relates to Calypso specifically what are sort of the clinical milestones or data points we should be watching out for over the next call it 6 to 12 months just to sort of track the progress of that technology? I'll start with the non-numerics stuff.
Basically the Calypso folks have introduced some data for prostate that -- and so we're going to be talking to a lot of people in the United States about adding Calypso into their prostate programs.
So you -- there's no big events there it's just a continued activity on our part.
For lung Calypso is trying to get approval for a lung marker and of course as you can tell from the presentation I made today and other presentations we think that both operable and inoperable lung cancer can benefit from more radiation therapy treatment and -- but the trick with lung is you have to hit the target.
And for especially prosteric types of treatment it's important that that be extremely accurate.
So we're hoping that the Calypso device will get approved by the FDA.
Obviously they're in trials to do that.
I'm not going to predict the date today because that's up to things that are beyond my control.
But I would hope that maybe 6 months from now I can give you much a better insight into when that approval would be expected.
But I think Elisha's remarks earlier are very important to us.
Calypso -- we didn't invest in Calypso because we think it's going to have a huge and positive impact on us in 2012.
In fact we expected to lose $0.05 or $0.06 for us in 2012.
Calypso is an investment for the sake of 2013 and 2014.
That's when I hope to have more FDA approvals that's when I expect the business that we got this year for prostate starts to be delivered in terms of sales.
So now I'll now turn it over to Elisha to comment on the financial stuff.
Great.
David so of that $0.05 to $0.06 most of that is cash-related the -- we are not finalized on the purchase price allocation as of yet but I am estimating at this point the amortization will be about $0.01.
That will flow through the SG&amp;A and that is included in that $0.05 to $0.06.
So most of that is -- obviously we had some legal and accounting and things to close the transaction we had some severance we are actually taking the Calypso operating losses that they've had over the last year and cutting that in half.
So we are making progress but we are continuing to invest quite heavily particularly in the regulatory area so that we can get this FDA clearance that Tim mentioned.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just on -- more on the target SG&amp;A and the P&amp;L.
Maybe just give us some sense as to directionally what's happening with discretionary spending.
Operating margins that I think we're kind of roughly flat in 2011 and you had talked to that kind of some lost quotas -- I think you call them austerity measures that had pulled back spending in fiscal '10 some of which returned in fiscal '11.
Maybe you should just give us a sense that we're back on the trajectory that sort of annual 50 basis point of operating margin expansion that you had previously targeted? Sure.
I think for fiscal year '12 once you go through your model you'll see that we are modeling out again somewhere around 23% or so of the EBIT margin.
That is including the dilutive effects of Calypso that is including the shutdown of the dpiX manufacturing facility the Proton revenue so it's a little hard to compare apples to apples but in terms to answer your question I would say we are still cautious on spending we are not out like drunken sailors by any stretch of the imagination but we do plan to get salary increases in equity brands and all of the normal things that we do year-over-year.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to focus a little bit on some a qualitative-type questions.
The TrueBeam order rate is growing nicely and I try and balance that against your revenue guidance of plus 10% plus 9% to plus 11% and it looks like acquisition and Scripps adds roughly by my calculation roughly 100 basis points or so.
Does this mean that you've got an extra 100 basis points coming from just good order flow and turning that order into revenue? Well we did have significant orders and increasing backlog.
And we also as Elisha said we had some business that moved from quarter 4 into next year which gives us a little extra tailwind which is nice to see.
So all of those things have an effect.
And I'm going to say about TrueBeam the bulk of our TrueBeam business has been in North America.
True -- if we start -- we're to see more pick up in TrueBeam internationally and if we start to get a lot of TrueBeam international orders then I think that that's just hugely positive for us.
So some of that obviously is built into 2012 but I think the European and Asian story for TrueBeam is really going to help us in  2013 -- in 2014.
I think when we introduced TrueBeam I told everybody that it would take 2 years for that to hit the international markets that it would first hit the U.S.
market because people set those budgets a long time in advance internationally.
And so I think that that's proven to be the case.
I was just at a meeting of users of scientific meeting of our users in Berlin and there are a lot of presentations about TrueBeam and a tremendous amount of optimism about the product.
Not just from physicians and physicists but also from operators.
I mentioned at ASTRO that I had met with our customer who went on and on about how much they love TrueBeam and it's really nice to hear.
So I think all in all it's a product that's going to give us a lot of strength.
So we'll see orders strength into TrueBeam in 2012 and some of our uplift in terms of revenue is from that.
And -- but I think our real potential -- and Oncology did nearly what 45% margin in the fourth quarter.
I mean this is incredible what TrueBeam has done for us.
So I think we're going to see that manifest even more strongly in the future because I think we can bring up our European and Asian margins as well.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
So it sounds to me like are signals are go in terms of placing the TrueBeam systems you're not seeing any delays in the places such that you're able to recognize that net order into revenue in fiscal '12 without hang-ups? No we we're not -- there's nothing deferred we're installing them quickly our install times have come down very nicely what 3 or 4 weeks now for 4 weeks for install times.
And so I'm just -- we've hit the ground running.
We have now installed close to 150 TrueBeams so we've gone through a lot of learning doing all of that.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Shifting gears to x-rays.
I appreciate the comments made on the new mammography system that's to be featured at RSA.
Can you just sort of help us understand why this would be differentiated and why customers will want to look at this particularly given the current base right now of selenium system? Well the selenium systems are very delicate and they have lifetime problems they produce very good pictures but they are not as reliable as amorphous silicon and so -- but people have preferred them because of image quality.
What's happening now is that we've been able to make amorphous silicon products and then -- and the new generations of coatings performed so well and gets such high resolution that those panels are producing images good enough to use in these kinds of mammography systems.
So I'm not saying we're going to get 100% market share and all that and far from it but I am saying we're going to start to see some penetration of these kinds of panels which are cheaper to make and more reliable and easier to ship into more and more mammography systems over time so we're happy to see it.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it doesn't sound like customers who are entrenched in the current amorphous system have to make big changes into how they're producing the materials they use.
You're essentially giving the same product but a better product? That's what we believe and so what we want to do now is -- obviously we want to try to woo those people into offering this as maybe as an option on their product.
So that they don't all have to deliver amorphous selenium they have an option that they can deliver to customers.
But that's what  Mr.
Kluge has to do starting at RS&amp;A is try to talk more people into doing that.
And of course we already have been in contact with a lot of people who've seen the stuff that we do and people are incorporating our new mammography panel in their products.
But I think 2012 is a year in which we're going to try to persuade a lot of people to consider this technology instead of what they already use.
LLC Research Division</strong> I apologize if you gave this but did you give the tax rate that underlies your EPS guidance? For fiscal year '12? LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
Yes.
It will be about 31% Dalton.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and what about the share count? We haven't guided to share count and obviously fully diluted shares depend largely on what's going on with the stock price as well.
I think you should assume that once this stock repurchase program that we are in that we will have some ongoing share repurchases as we've done over the last several years.
And then just building your stock price assumptions we ended the quarter -- we ended Q4 within 116 million shares outstanding I believe.
LLC Research Division</strong> Then just shifting to R&amp;D you did mention you had a pretty good bump in the year as you're working on some new products.
Should we expect that to moderate going forward? Could it even come back down a little bit? Or what -- how would you model it? No I'm -- I love R&amp;D.
So we will probably grow it as fast as we grow sales and maybe a little bit faster.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just going to start with Calypso.
Just a couple there Calypso had 110 installed base units I'm just wondering if any of those were already Varian -- had Varian equipment on the 1x side.
If they did not how long would that transition take? And then on the earn outs for Calypso I'm just wondering what is the actual trigger for these earn outs and what is the timetable? It's a 2-year earn out and the trigger is they have to exceed as of the expected units and we haven't disclosed what those units are.
But once they exceed what we expect on the installs going forward for the next 2 years then there's additional money.
In terms of the rest -- first part of your question I don't think I have that number but I believe -- looking around the room at the people who're sitting here with me that it's going to be probably consistent with our normal share in North America which is about 70% of units.
So I would expect that that's the number and we don't have any reason to believe it's lower or higher than that number.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Elisha last quarter you mentioned freestanding clinics had a little bit of a tough time on the credit side of things getting access to credit.
Although today in Europe was a good announcement.
Markets were up and that's great.
But did you notice that was an issue this quarter? And if indeed it is an issue will the company consider using its balance sheet on the freestanding clinics side for systems and upgrades somewhat to how it's using it for the proton business? Well it really -- let me just say it didn't circle up to my desk as being a big issue in the past quarter.
And I've got financing folks on staff to go out and facilitate this financing and it's been business as usual.
So I don't think there's anything particular going on in the freestanding side right now.
We have used our balance sheet on the proton business and we used a good piece of it and we would always consider doing something for other segments but at this point it just has not been applied.
They haven't asked us to so Elisha hasn't had to be a drunken sailor yet in terms of doing that.
So I think that's going to be okay.
We have seen some nice activity on the part of freestandings in North America in the fourth quarter so I think that they're getting access to money.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two last ones for me quick ones.
One just a housekeeping one on the balance sheet $180 million in short-term borrowings.
Is that just related to Scripps or...
No no no.
That was related to our revolving line of credit that we drew down to do our accelerated share repurchase program.
Now Scripps is...
We are in the process of paying that down.
What you have to realize is we built a lot of the inventory for Scripps.
So loaning the money is to some extent using cash we've already spent.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Tim maybe the last one just a general comment on reimbursement.
We're approaching November.
Just any of your thoughts heading into November on reimbursement for next year.
We are -- well to remind everybody on reimbursement for hospital-based reimbursement we are expecting about 1.5% for -- not counting -- let me -- I'll give you the answer and then I'll fix it.
1.5% for freestandings.
The number varies but it's around 6% 7% negative win which was anticipated.
If the super committee does not come back the super Congress does not come up with an answer there will be a 2% on top of that which won't affect hospitals at all.
I mean well it will affect them but I don't think it will affect their behavior.
That will be harder I think on freestandings and of course we don't know what the super Congress is going to do.
I guess November 26 is the deadline for a proposal so we have not -- we don't know there.
We'll see the final numbers next week but we have no reason to believe that the numbers are going to be any different than those numbers.
Anthony let me come back to one thing you said.
I just want to make sure that we don't mislead on your question regarding the debt facility.
We have committed $115 million to this facility.
We have only funded at this point $19 million which is new on our balance sheet and this will be drawn down over a period of time.
So a small portion has been funded for the centers to date.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then again that 6% 7% is not including what potentially could come from the super committee vote? That's correct.
It could be -- for freestandings they could be affected more.
But this is -- they've all taken this into account.
There's nothing here that they haven't known about for 3 or 4 months and their behavior's still been good.
And you have to remember we have done a tremendous job in the last few years at driving cost out of what it takes to do radiation therapy when you use our equipment.
It is true that if you use our competitor's equipment if I do say so myself you don't get the throughput that you get with our stuff.
But in treatment planning and in delivery we give people very good performance and that's why they prefer us.
And so I think that everybody expects the pricing to go down the payments to go down in radiation therapy.
And I think one of the reasons why they like what we're doing is because we've shown them how you can use our stuff to get your cost out.
And I think we can -- so I believe we can stay ahead of the curve.
Research Division</strong> I've been jumping between calls here so forgive me if I repeat a question here that you've already had.
But Elisha I want to look at guidance here for a second.
The $0.05 to $0.06 Calypso dilution that you're talking about how much of that is being offset? Can you just remind me by the increased interest income from the loan to Scripps? Well again only $19 million has been funded.
As you know it's an 8.25% currently and that will be drawn down anywhere from $1 million to $3 million per month by the end of the year somewhere around maybe $35 million to $40 million will be funded.
Also that has to be offset that we are borrowing more to under our revolver to do our share repurchase program.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So let me ask it this way and I'll walk through all that math offline I guess.
But is the Scripps funding expected to add a few pennies or not as much as the $0.05 to $0.06 dilution on Calypso? It would take an average of maybe $25 million outstanding in 8.25% and that's your number.
That's it.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No that's helpful.
So then as I think about the rest of your guidance it's the first quarter guidance that I'm still confused by the $0.74 to $0.75.
How much of the dpiX closure how much of that is going to cost to EPS? Sure.
Let me kind of walk you through the first quarter of '12 which I understand on the surface looks a little confusing.
The problem with the near-perfect quarter is you always have to anniversary it the following year and that's exactly what happened in the year-ago quarter.
Virtually every single metric moved in the right direction.
So if you look back into Q1 of last year earnings per share were up 27%.
So in this first quarter again you can see sales will be somewhere around 8% to 9% growth.
We have $0.04 to $0.05 dilution from both Calypso which is roughly $0.02 and then roughly $0.03 from the shutdown of dpiX.
And that's a onetime charge and that will all hit in the first quarter.
If you look in the year-ago quarter oncology had an unsustainably high gross margin at 47% and we are now modeling that will be closer to the 45% which is still very strong but will not be at the year-ago level.
And then in the year-ago quarter we also had that reinstatement of the R&amp;D tax credit which drove the tax rate down to 29% versus 33% or so in this Q1.
And that's about a $0.04 delta right there just on the tax rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that 33% Q1 tax rate you're still I think I caught before I jumped to another call 31% for fiscal '12 is what you're still guiding to though? Correct.
Research Division</strong> So a lot of what we lose in Q1 just kind of gates into probably higher estimates on street numbers in the back half of the year? Yes.
And I would just focus on for the full year and admittedly $0.10 is a relatively big spread.
It's early.
The FX rates have been all over the board and so we've put a slightly broader range on that.
But if you take the midpoint it'll put you at mid-teens growth year-over-year.
I think altogether next year looks pretty good.
It just doesn't look so good in the first quarter.
And a lot of things have just happened coincidentally in one quarter and that's what we're trying to explain.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No understood Tim and I guess what I was trying to feel out is it almost looks like Q2 through Q4 next year you're guiding to 20% plus EPS growth.
Well we'll get to that guidance when we get to it by quarter.
But for the year we still think this looks pretty good.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And another one I'm sure you won't bite on Tim but I'm going to ask anyway.
I mean just kind of your overall outlook on orders for next year.
Maybe just qualitatively you're up international and U.S.? Well obviously I'm feeling better about Europe today than I was yesterday so that's good news.
I'm feeling good about that.
In terms of North America obviously there's still turmoil.
I want to see our Medicare reimbursement rates come out.
But yet even if -- I don't -- I just can't contemplate that thing getting much worse in the 2% that people were talking about which I think is kind of a no op for the radiation/oncology business.
So I would -- I'm not particularly worried at that point.
It's more of a long-term consideration for the North American market.
In Asia we'll now have thoroughly graduated from Japan.
And so I think that we have some opportunities there.
We're showing share growth in China and we're very strong in Japan and other parts of Asia and the rest of the world.
You saw the rest of the world numbers for this quarter.
So I'm kind of bullish on international overall.
But for Europe I think a lot depends on what that currency number does for us.
And I want to say while I got you on the line.
We started this year giving a range of guidance of I think $3.34 to $3.39.
We came in at $3.44.
So although the fourth quarter we were disappointed by some slipouts that happened not in oncology and not in -- well but happened in X-ray and Security we nonetheless did well.
And so I bet just -- and some of that business has slid into 2012 and gives me optimism for 2012.
So I would have to say overall I'm more bullish now than I was even a week ago about next year.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's encouraging.
And yes I guess just last let me just follow up one more.
I thought I was done there.
But if I look 2 years ago your North -- your orders on a constant currency basis were much softer in North America much stronger international.
This past year now in fiscal '11 as I update my model is pretty evenly balanced.
You think when we get through 2012 you think we're going to look more like 2010 or 2011? Are they more balanced there in '12 or will one geographic area outpace the others? I guess my view is that North America -- in the past I've seen North America slow down and then eventually you just get a return.
They just come back because they just have to buy.
I don't think -- I'm not expecting a strong return in 2012 necessarily but I am starting to see signs that people are starting to buy in North America as we emerge from this.
So that leaves me to believe in the long run we're going to see greater North American strength than we've seen for a while at some point here.
I can't tell you exactly when but some time in 2012 2013 we're going to see more strength in North America.
Is it going to be more balanced? Well it's like I say there are 310 million people in North America and 6.5 billion people outside of North America.
Ultimately we're just going to have to grow faster outside of North America than we do inside.
But the nice thing is that if we can develop products for those markets and if we can get nice products like TrueBeam to be well accepted in those markets then we can increase not only our share but we can increase our gross margin in our international businesses.
So in the long run I'm very bullish about international and I'm very bullish that we can increase our profitability from our international business.
Research Division</strong> Elisha just a quick question for you on collections and bad debt in Europe just given the situation which again hopefully is improving after today.
What's your DSOs look like in Europe? How does this compare to U.S.
and then how does it compare to a year ago? Well it's -- I don't have an exact number for you Junaid but it is higher in international markets than in the U.S.
We feel like we have adequate reserves on the books for whatever we might be experiencing in Spain or Portugal et cetera.
So I don't anticipate that there's going to be any real surprises coming out of there.
We do have a few hemo plans in certain countries that we're executing on.
And DSO we have if you average the last 4 quarters we've been right at 80 and yet again this quarter we're right at 80.
So I would say it's just kind of business as usual.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then again in Europe your competitor over there can be call it fairly aggressive on the pricing side.
Just again given the more macro issue going on in Europe how has this impacted pricing? As we started to introduce new products in Europe I think our pricing has done reasonably well.
I have to say I think our competitors are pursuing an M&amp;A strategy and we've been pursuing an organic growth strategy and these are different strategies for growth.
Both of them have their merits but I think it has enabled us to hold our pricing better than you might otherwise think.
Research Division</strong> And that's actually a good segue to your acquisition of Calypso.
Tim could you help us understand how this plays into other motion management strategies that you've been looking at for example Vision RT? Would you -- after Calypso would you think of perhaps moving away from Vision RT? Or alternatively would you even consider something more strategic similar to your deal with Calypso? Well motion management is one of those things where there are a lot of different ways to do the problem to solve the problem.
And to some extent I guess you might say -- I don't know if you ever played roulette.
We talked about drunken sailors earlier so I'm going to use a gambling example.
If you're playing roulette and you bet on 0 and double 0 and all the numbers you stand a greater chance of winning.
So in a way we're betting on all the numbers here.
We -- one way to know whether or not you're positioned properly is to use what I call active markers and that's what Calypso makes.
And active markers are nice because they -- the Calypso marker has -- you don't have to use ionizing radiation it tells you where it is.
Some people are going to prefer imaging.
And of the people who prefer imaging some of them are going to want to use what I call passive markers which means gold seeds.
They don't do anything except they're visible under radiation and some want to use no markers at all.
And we really don't know -- if you talk to one customer you talk to one customer about how they prefer to solve this problem.
We're going to provide an answer for the people who want to use no marker we're going to provide an answer for the people who want to use passive markers and we're going to use -- we're going to provide an answer for people who want to use the Calypso markers.
In lung think about lung because lung is very important to us going forward but also liver.
In lung and liver if you want to do stereotactic treatments it's a little different.
In the lung some lesions are visible when you treat them in the lung.
So you can use regular imaging methods and maybe no fiducials inside the lung for visual -- for visible tumors.
For other kinds of tumors that are hard to see and hard to distinguish between the background then a marker might be very good.
And the nice thing about the Calypso marker is you don't have to use extra x-ray to do imaging during that period.
For liver you can't see tumors at all in the liver with traditional imaging methods.
And so Calypso could be very useful inside the liver but also passive markers would be useful.
So we don't know how this is going to play but we do know that a lot of people love the Calypso product.
Obviously we didn't buy it without talking to users and a lot of users are very bullish about it.
But this is going to be -- it's not a one-size-fits-all market in terms of how this will be solved.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I like the drunken gamblers analogy.
Tim we're about a month away from RSNA.
I know that's Bob Kluge's time to shine versus the larger oncology business.
I know that you've all already renewed with one of your larger OEMs for the year on the X-ray business.
But as we head into RSNA and with new products coming could you give us a sense for this meeting and it's magnitude to the X-ray business and perhaps signing up some other larger OEM customers? Well this is where Bob gets to show his new stuff and he will be showing lots of new products.
And obviously a lot of his customers already sort of had guessed or know what we're coming up with and what we're going to show at RSNA but we can show a broader variety of things.
So for him RSNA is an important show.
He's way more busy.
All of the oncology people -- we talk to people who come in from the Chicago area and from the Midwest but otherwise that's just not a big oncology show.
But there's a tremendous number of customer meetings that goes on for Bob Kluge that -- where we get to meet important customers that are major buyers from us.
So it's a huge show for Bob Kluge.
Research Division</strong> First question.
Tim appreciate the color you've provided on reimbursement before.
Just wondering if you can comment on the dynamics of the private payers? There's obviously been some noise there with Blue Cross Blue Shield in Massachusetts.
And just wondering what you're hearing from customers about pushback from the private payers? And is your view that this ultimately doesn't impact demand on the freestanding side? Yes we've heard things like New England Blue Cross has been limiting IMRT to prostate which is strange because we're head and neck -- you'd be crazy not to do IMRT for head and neck patients because you're going to experience tremendous cost.
So we've seen insurers do nuts things before and obviously we're going to still see insurers do crazy things.
We've  seen some Western insurers blocking prostate SPRT and we've seen insurers blocking IMRT for breast.
IMRT for breast is probably not going to be well paid for except in certain kinds of cases and there's a difference between left breast and the right breast for treatment.
So it's hard to say where that's going to go.
We've seen clinicians successfully challenge nonsensical denials and I think we will continue to be and we're investigating.
We're putting money into clinical trials to provide more clinical evidence.
But I don't know what I can tell you.
Obviously some insurers are going to ignore the facts.
But if you have relatives that live in New England and they don't get IMRT when they have head and neck cancers treated then they ought to do something nasty to their insurer.
Research Division</strong> And then you mentioned the clinical trials.
I mean to what degree do you feel a need to get a cost of that versus just coordinating? And obviously we've seen some papers come out of the SPRT release at ASTRO.
So how much are you able to quantify what you're spending on coordinating these trials? Well we spend a lot of money every year on research that's done by customers.
Now what we spend is small I think compared to the total amount of clinical trial stuff.
A lot of what we spend is additional money to help facilitators speed up the course of a clinical trial.
But in the end the critical trials that most people like best are the ones that the manufacturer doesn't support.
They're paid for by the large investigative bodies like RTOG.
But we're participating and for example lung data.
We want to get lung data and we want to get it more quickly.
So we're going to participate to the extent that we can speed up the accrual of patients because that's something we would really like to see.
So if we can pay for a better status more statisticians or easier assembly of data et cetera that's good.
Also sometimes we want them to use a technology that's uniquely ours in a clinical trial.
And so if you have a general-purpose clinical trial and only one vendor has a particular technical solution then probably you're going to want to see some money from us to support that effort.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Calypso and now that the business is in your fold any thoughts on the pricing structure there? I mean the system's a couple hundred thousand dollars.
Does that make sense going forward? Or do you feel a need to maybe adjust the pricing and further integrate the device itself into the Linacs? Well the Calypso had a pricing level that was based upon its volume.
What we hope to do over time is increase the volume and get some advantages that we can offer in terms of pricing because we get scale.
But right now the scale isn't there yet so we're going to have to be very careful in what we do in terms of pricing.
And obviously we're going to spend some money on cost reduction activities to see what we can do.
Any technology like this the more inexpensive we can make it the better.
But this remains a very exotic device right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one of the competitive dynamics we tend to get is as we think about the dynamics here in the U.S.
in particular around the Tomo-Accuray merger how do you view the opportunity to go after some of those vaults and importantly bringing UNIQUE to some of those customers to some of those low-energy vaults? Well TomoTherapy vaults yes people pull them out.
Some people have decided not to put them -- I mean they're putting TrueBeams in some of those things and some of them are putting 600 CEs in there.
UNIQUE is a potential opportunity for some of those sites and I have seen people express an interest in doing that sort of thing.
So the only places I think where we -- maybe something special would be required that like UNIQUE would be extremely small vaults in North America that's not really a big opportunity.
There are small vaults in North America but most of those small vaults are outside of North America.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one on capital deployment.
I think your Analyst Day back in May you'd kind of talked about ballpark $300 million to $400 million-type deals.
Obviously Calypso's much smaller.
So can you just talk to the extent you're still looking at M&amp;A? Yes I think I said $300 million in aggregate over several years right? I don't want to scare the heck out of everybody else on the thing.
Calypso is small.
We're still looking at a number of opportunities.
I think ultimately Augmenix can be big.
Right now it hasn't been approved for use in the U.S.
but ultimately I think it can be extremely important worldwide.
I think there's about 100 000 prostate patients treated in the United States every year with radiation therapy.
There's probably another 100 000 or so internationally and that number is going to grow.
So that represents a very large opportunity for us if we can get a good share.
And I think that there's maybe some Augmenix opportunities elsewhere in the body as well.
So I think Augmenix is probably already one of them.
It's just that you haven't seen the rest of the acquisition happen.
You've just seen the initial investment.
Calypso I think is important but is never going to be gigantic in terms of that number.
And there are a number of other acquisitions but for the most part they're not huge.
I mean they are -- I think some of them have big revenue torque but not very many.
But nonetheless I think I've got a list that adds up to $300 million.
That's going to be all the questions that we can take today.
I want to all thank you all very much for participating in the call and we're certainly happy and look forward to meeting with you next week in New York.
We will give you additional information.
Again that thing will be webcast as well.
This call has been recorded.
A replay can be heard on the Varian website where it will be archived for a year.
And if you want to hear a telephone replay you can dial 1 (888) 286-8010 from inside the U.S.
or 1 (617) 801-6888 from outside the U.S.
and entering confirmation code 14920221.
Telephone replay will be available through Friday and thank you very much for participating.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Varian Medical Systems First Quarter Fiscal Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Cathy and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today's call Mr.
Spencer Sias Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and welcome to Varian Medical Systems conference call for the first quarter of fiscal year 2012.
Participating in this call are Tim Guertin President and CEO; Elisha Finney CFO; Dow Wilson Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Tai Chen our Corporate Controller.
Tim is on travel and participating remotely.
Tim and Elisha will summarize our results and will take your questions following the presentation.
To simplify our discussions unless otherwise stated all references to the quarter or year are fiscal quarters and fiscal years quarterly comparisons over the first quarter of fiscal 2012 versus the first quarter of fiscal 2011.
All results are for continuing operations which exclude the sale of research and in proportion of ACCEL.
Please be advised that this presentation and discussion contains forward-looking statements.
Our use of words and phrases such as outlook could should believe opportunity can expect potential and similar expressions are intended to identify those statements which represent our current judgment on future performance or other future matters.
While we believe them to be reasonable based on information currently available to us these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of the important risks relating to our business are described in our first quarter earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements in this presentation and discussion because of new information future events or otherwise.
And now here is Tim.
Good afternoon and welcome.
Today we are reporting results for fiscal 2012 first quarter with revenue and earnings in line or ahead of our expectations but net orders challenges in all of our businesses.
To summarize our results revenues for the quarter rose by 8% to $625 million.
Our gross margin dropped by 3% as anticipated due to a tough year-ago comparison product mix and the Scripps Proton revenue recognition which had 0 margin.
Net earnings were $0.79 per diluted share down 1% from the year-ago quarter but well ahead of our guidance for the quarter.
Our quarter ending backlog including the Proton business expanded by 14% to $2.5 billion.
I’ll focus now on orders and operations in each of our businesses.
Oncology Systems' first quarter net orders totaled $485 million up 6% with a 22% increase in the overall international regions that more than offset an 11% decline in North America.
This is in stark contrast to the year-ago quarter which had a 20% increase in North America and a 6% decline in international markets versus the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
Compared to the first quarter last year net orders rose 27% in the Far East driven by gains in China Thailand and Malaysia as well as in Japan where we have just announced the establishment of a new training and education center.
I believe we've gained market share in this region and we continue to see a healthy pipeline of potential business in China where we're [indiscernible] from a larger and revitalized sales force.
In Europe net orders increased 18% with the help of key wins in Sweden The Ukraine Turkey The Netherlands Egypt Finland and Russia.
Net orders in the rest of the world including Latin America and Australia grew 37% versus the year-ago period.
Growth in Latin America was led by Argentina Chile and Brazil where we have won all 3 of the last public tenders.
New technology a broader product line unmatched service capability and new educational programs have enabled us to strengthen our position in all international regions.
In North America which comprised 42% of the net orders for the quarter we were impacted by several order push outs.
We fully expect that we will book these orders in this fiscal year.
While the sales funnel for this region looks healthy for our hospital customers we're seeing some continued reimbursement uncertainty and slow purchasing activity among freestanding clinics.
On a global basis the number of accelerators ordered in the quarter was up from the year-ago quarter driven by strong demand in international markets for both low- and high-energy accelerators including our TrueBeam platform for radiotherapy and radiosurgery.
The take rate for TrueBeam almost doubled in Europe showing that it is gaining traction as a product with a broad clinical appeal and a driver for future growth in all parts of the world.
TrueBeam continued to comprise about 40% of our high-energy accelerator orders in the quarter despite the order push outs in North America which has been the strongest market for this product.
Since TrueBeam was introduced in 2010 we have now booked some 425 orders for the platform and we now have about 100 installations complete or in progress.
The strength of our international business during the quarter also resulted in strong orders for our UNIQUE accelerator which is a cost-competitive low-energy system capable of delivering image-guided RapidArc IMRT.
Customer demand for our other radiosurgical systems including the Trilogy and Novalis Tx platforms was also up during the quarter.
Demand for the onboard imager upgrades and RapidArc products rose during the quarter as more clinics position themselves with the technology needed to meet the new standards for delivering efficient image-guided treatments.
Our service business grew strongly expanded by about 15% versus the year-ago quarter.
Given the varying methods for reporting orders and acquisitions by our competition objective measures of market share are different  -- excuse me difficult our analysis of the quarter shows that we held our own in North America while gaining share of the available accelerator business in emerging markets.
This bodes well for our future growth as emerging markets become a more important driver of global growth.
There's been a lot of discussion in the market about Siemens exiting the accelerator business.
And while it represents a growth opportunity for the rest of us it's too early for anyone to claim that Siemens' decision has resulted in additional business for them.
A typical sales cycle is about a year long.
That said Varian has been selected to replace more than 50 Siemens units within the last fiscal year and of course of serving the normal replacement market and we're now pursuing additional opportunities.
We saw continued progress  --  excuse me continued clinical progress in the fight against cancer during the quarter.
As an example clinicians at the University of Alabama at Birmingham and the Humanitas clinic in Milan Italy showed a fast-dose delivery using high-intensity mode on TrueBeam makes it possible to deliver radiosurgery in a normal radiotherapy time slot.
This unmatched capability is designed to reduce the extent of tumor motion during treatment as well as patient time on the table.
This should also help to lower the clinic's cost per treatment.
Clinicians at the Palo Alto Medical Foundation have noted that they've been able to use RapidArc for stereotactic radiosurgery on brain lesions greater than 7 millimeters in diameter in addition to performing radiosurgery on smaller lesions.
It's great to see that this radiosurgical capability could give clinics more options for treating large lesions.
Clinicians at the Humanitas clinic in Milan also showed that our new Acuros XB  algorithm is capable of calculating highly accurate RapidArc treatment plans for stereotactic surgery.
This should help streamline clinical workflow while maintaining excellent treatment planning precision.
Finally we're encouraged by an increasing number of physician-related clinical studies on using stereotactic radiosurgical techniques.
Studies like these will encourage others to continue exploring and developing regular surgical techniques and all of these studies support continued use of Varian technology in the fight against cancer and our mission to save another 100 000 lives every year.
Our X-ray Products business had an uncharacteristically weak quarter for both tube and panel products.
Net orders were $110 million down 2% from the year-ago period and revenues rose 1% to $113 million.
The principal cause of weak revenue growth was soft demand in Japan where several customers appeared to be adjusting inventory levels to be more in line with their normal imaging equipment production rates.
We believe this is a delayed reaction to the recovery efforts from last year's earthquake and tsunami and we are expecting that our business will return to more normal growth rates as the fiscal year progresses.
While there was weakness in demand during the quarter there were some bright spots including strong customer interest in the new products that we will bring to market later in the year.
Several large customers are currently working on integrating new products such as our wireless radiographic panel our mammal panel and our new cone beam panel into their next-generation products.
We also expect growth in X-ray tubes later in the year as we ramp up production of a new high-tier replacement CT tube that was recently exhibited at the RSNA meeting in Chicago.
Switching now to our Other category.
Combined net orders were $12 million for the quarter down $10 million from year-ago quarter.
Demand for our security products was soft compared to the year-ago quarter when we received a large order for border screening products.
In our Particle Therapy business we continue to make good progress for the installation of our ProBeam system at the Scripps Proton Center in San Diego.
Subsequent to the close of the quarter we signed a contract and booked an order from the Saudi Particle Therapy Center to supply the King Fahd Medical Center in Saudi Arabia with a $77 million system for a proton center in Riyadh.
This facility which will be the first in this region will include our ProBeam system for 5 treatment rooms as well as 2 of our TrueBeams.
Equipment installation is expected to commence in 2013.
This agreement will also include a multiyear service contract that should commence as the installation is completed.
We believe that more and more proton centers will want to employ the full suite of Varian products and technology for radiotherapy and radiosurgery as well as particle therapy for world-class cancer treatments.
The combination of these technologies based on 60 years of innovation plus Varian -- puts Varian in a unique position to help advance clinical care for patients around the world.
As a reminder Varian is also been selected to provide equipment for their new proton centers at the University of Maryland and in Mestre Italy where a new center is planned to open in 2015.
Furthermore we've been identified as the preferred provider for a new center at Emory University which just received its Certificate of Need.
We are continuing discussions with several other groups who are planning to build proton centers.
And now here's Elisha to cover the financials.
Right.
Thanks Tim and hello everyone.
While Tim has already covered net orders I want to briefly talk about the constant currency growth rates for the quarter.
In comparing quarter-over-quarter exchange rates the euro was pretty stable and the yen was slightly stronger so the FX impact in the quarter was minimal.
Oncology grew net orders by 6% in dollars or 5% in constant currency.
Oncology's European net orders growth rate was 18% both in dollars and in constant currency and the Far East was up 27% in dollars and 23% in constant currency.
First quarter revenues increased 8% to $625 million with constant currency growth of 7%.
Oncology Systems posted an 8% increase in revenues.
X-ray Products posted a gain of 1% and revenues from businesses under the Other category increased by $9 million or 56% including nearly $9 million of revenue for the Scripps Proton Therapy contract.
The first quarter gross margin for the company fell as expected from the year-ago record quarter by 3 points to 43%.
Oncology Systems' gross margin declined by 2 points to 45% due primarily to a product mix shift.
X-ray Products' gross margin also declined about 2 points to 40% primarily due to a mix shift to lower margin products within our line of X-ray tubes.
The gross margin for the Other business and the total company was negatively impacted by the Scripps contract under which revenue was being recorded using the percentage of completion method.
Under this method revenues are initially recognized equal to cost with the expectation that profits will be recognized towards the end of the project.
The Scripps contract negatively impacted the company's first quarter gross margin by 60 basis points.
First quarter SG&amp;A expenses were $96 million or 15% of revenues down slightly as a percentage of revenues from the year-ago quarter.
First quarter R&amp;D expenses were $44 million or 7% of revenues up slightly as a percentage of revenue from the year-ago quarter.
First quarter operating earnings as expected fell 6% to $129 million or 21% of revenues.
Depreciation and amortization totaled $14 million for the quarter.
The effective tax rate was 30.2% for the quarter up slightly from the year-ago period when we benefited from a reinstatement of the R&amp;D tax credit.
The tax rate for the first quarter of this year is lower than expected due to a change in Japanese tax law.
For the fiscal year we expect that the tax rate will be about 30%.
Fully diluted shares outstanding decreased from the year-ago quarter to $114 million due mainly to our previously announced share repurchase programs.
Diluted earnings per share fell by $0.01 to $0.79.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $606 million debt of $188 million and stockholder’s equity of $1.4 billion.
DSO increased from an unusually low year-ago quarter to 86 days including a 4-day impact from the Particle Therapy business.
First quarter cash flow from operations was $53 million with increases in inventory as well as somewhat slower collections on accounts receivables.
Primary uses of cash were $10 million for the purchase of Calypso and $8 million for CapEx.
Now I'll turn it back to Tim for the outlook.
Thanks Elisha.
We remain confident in our growth outlook for fiscal 2012 and expect our businesses to strengthen as the year progresses with annual revenues growing by about 10% and earnings per diluted share rising by about 15%.
For the second quarter of fiscal 2012 we believe that revenues could increase by about 8% over the second quarter of fiscal 2011 total and that net earnings per diluted share could rise by 12% to 13%.
This brings us in at about the midpoint of our previous guidance for the year and it reflects the softness in the Japanese imaging equipment market as well as our push outs in the North American Oncology business.
Thank you for your attention and we're now ready for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Jason Wittes of Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions.
First off the way you characterize push outs from oncology orders is that something that you -- is not necessarily next quarter but sometime this year? Is that the right way to think about it? And was there a specific reason surrounding why there would be a delay in those orders other than traditional capital equipment cycles? This is Tim.
I'd just say that when you see larger -- when we talk about push outs obviously we're talking about orders of some size.
And when an order of some size moves sometimes it just moves a short distance and sometimes it can move a quarter or 2 and that's generally the case.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So basically it's a big order but hard to say whether it's this quarter or the following but sometime this year… Yes.
I would be reluctant to say at this point when it will happen.
It's just -- you make forecast based on what you know at the beginning of the quarter and your customers sometimes change their plans.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And also on X-ray orders I understand what you said about Japan.
How much visibility do you have in terms of when this sort of inventory levels normalize and you can get back to your normalized growth rate there? Well let me comment first and then Dow I'll see if you have anything to add.
We constantly get information from our suppliers.
We have some sense of what their inventory levels are.
When this has happened in the past it's generally persisted 1 or 2 quarters.
Dow do you have any additional insight on this? No.
And I think that's -- we do have some visibility into their inventory levels.
We've seen this kind of call down before not recently for sure.
But we think of what we're seeing is really kind of a rebalancing from some of the activities that happened in Japan last year with the earthquake and tsunami.
Yes.
And we see this about every 3 to 4 years.
It's just the nature of the beast of being a component supplier.
I would just tell you that once you pencil out the guidance Q2 is probably going to be in the high single-digit growth rate for X-ray and with double digit returning in the second half of this year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And by the way if I split out Japan what would the order rate look like? Is that something    a figure you could give us? Not something that we looked at.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just want to quickly ask about Particle Therapy as well.
My understanding is -- and you guys have been pretty open about business.
There's a fair amount of dilution resulting each year as a result of doing the R&amp;D to get your Particle Therapy business up to speed.
I assume that's somewhere around 10% to 15% but I also heard that you guys thought with your first real installation going forward it could get a little bit higher.
Is that still the way you perceive it? No Jason.
It's closer to about 5% of the total year EPS estimate.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I meant $0.10 to $0.15 not 5...
That is correct.
Yes not 15% yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sorry.
And the new order the order that you just put in for Saudi Arabia that's a net orders.
But it sounds like that won't really actually  -- there won't be any revenue recognition till next year and when that happens I think we can assume that it's going to be neutral to earnings based on how you account for it.
Is that correct… Well we're still analyzing the contract in gory detail at this point to really lock in the revenue recognition.
You can assume it will be under project accounting and really the revenue can start when the project starts.
So we have not started the project specific to this deal at this point.
So in fact I am assuming that there will be some revenue in this fiscal year.
For the total year as we mentioned last quarter this is between $50 million and $55 million of proton revenue.
And yes it will be at if not 0 very low margin for the first couple of transactions.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But that $50 million to $55 million does include -- would it -- did anticipate something like the Saudi Arabia order? Is that...
Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Amit Bhalla of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Question -- I want to start with on North America oncology.
In general it's unusual to see your book to bill fall below 1 and you are saying that you're expecting orders to come back.
But can you talk specifically about freestanding clinics? I know you mentioned in your prepared comments and it does sound like freestanding clinics have taken kind of a permanent step down.
So why do you think that there's going to be kind of a bounce back? And how do you think freestanding clinics play into the North America outlook? I would say that our overall funnel looks pretty good so let's just start with that.
That would include hospital business and the freestanding clinic business.
We are seeing strength in the hospital segment so that's encouraging to us.
In the freestanding market it is down.
I think there is still some residual concern about reimbursements and also some concern about raising capital.
So that's what we're seeing out there.
I'd say our volumes in that segment have been light 2 quarters in a row.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the bounce back you're expecting has kind of nothing to do with freestanding clinics is that fair? We do see  -- as I said our funnel looks very good.
It is mostly a hospital market funnel.
There is some reimbursement maybe in February.
We get this reimbursement decision made and maybe that takes some away -- some of the uncertainty away in the freestanding market.
But really what we're seeing is a hospital market rebound.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second thing here just to clarify on proton.
Last quarter when you Elisha you talked about $50 million to $55 million.
About $20 million of that was coming from Scripps and $30 million was coming from Maryland.
But now you're saying that that also includes Saudi Arabia.
So did some of the Maryland revenue fallout? It's all depends on when we began a project as to when the revenue and the cost began.
And so when the $30 million was basically just order number 2 regardless if it was Maryland or Saudi and Saudi is kind of first in at this point.
So a combination of what we see right now gets us to about $50 million to $55 million for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So Maryland  -- you say order number 2.
So order number 2 is Saudi and that the means...
Correct.
Research Division</strong> Maryland is not necessarily as  -- you're not assuming Maryland right now? Well we are -- I mean we firmly believe we will be booking the Maryland deal as soon as the financing is complete.
And so there is a contingency and so we have not booked it even though we have announced and they are out raising funds as we speak.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is there any assumption that you have full year guidance for Siemens contribution? Amit again and to all of you please limit yourself to one question so we give everybody a shot at participating in this call.
Much appreciated.
But I'll answer the question.
Siemens we've always been able -- I mentioned in the conference call that we've been able to take some business from Siemens from their installed base and we would expect that other customers will be looking at who are in Siemens' backlog will be looking at making decisions.
But what you have to remember is Siemens was strongest in China and Eastern Europe and a number of countries like that and so some of those locations may take a little while to make their changes.
And so I wouldn't expect anything over time immediately but we'll expect an effect over time.
Maybe just a little more color.
We do believe that they represented about 8% of the market so it does represent an 8% market opportunity for us.
To Tim's point that is global market opportunity.
We think it's probably a little too early to impact anybody's current orders whether ourselves or anybody else.
And as Tim mentioned in the conference call we did last year win more than 50 Siemens sockets.
So we've already seen to some degree that installed base moving over to us and we're encouraged at looking at additional replacement opportunities in fiscal 2012.
Our next question comes from the line of David Roman of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us just an update on -- I think you said there are about 110 TrueBeams installed as of this quarter and 425 orders booked.
If -- I don't think you gave those numbers last quarter but I believe 2 quarters ago you said there were around 100 installs complete or pending.
What's happening on the conversion rate? And is that -- are those numbers in fact slowing? David it was 175.
175.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
Sorry.
So I misheard that.
So there's -- order installations continue to track basically one to one? Yes we're doing fine.
Research Division</strong> And then any impact on [indiscernible] -- follow-up question was around order cancellations whether you were seeing anything to that effect.
Philips they'd talked about that in their profit warning and they had cited some markets in Western Europe as well.
They weren't that specific but they did talk about a slowing rate of conversion from backlog to order.
So just wondering if you're seeing anything similar to that across any of your franchises? Nothing outside of historical basis no.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeremy Feffer of Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to come back to Siemens very quickly.
You mentioned 50 units that you've replaced in the last few years of theirs.
Was that prior to their announcement or is that since? That would have been 50 orders I'd say 90% prior to their -- that was our fiscal year that was our fiscal year '11.
So...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just...
We we've got announcement just after the fiscal year or so yes.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
And then just quickly back to the North America.
I think this quarter you said about 40% of these high-energy orders were TrueBeam.
Last quarter it was 70%.
Can I then assume that most of these order delays are these all TrueBeam orders? The 40% is the global number and that's consistent with our historical performance.
North America is much much higher than that.
Which we were actually thrilled to maintain a 40% take rate on TrueBeam given that virtually all of the orders growth came outside of North America and we saw Europe basically double -- almost double their take rate.
So to maintain 40% with the North American market down was very good.
Our next question comes from the line of Vivian Cervantes Kaufman Bros.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Switching back to X-rays.
I appreciate your comment that you've got some visibility into customer inventory levels.
Having said that did you get a sense that maybe production is back in order in which case there's going to be normal usage and therefore expectations for a return to ordering is in line with what you were expecting? We think it was just an overstocking and rebalancing of their inventory.
So as Elisha mentioned it's probably going to be a second half bump for us where we see the run-up and we've got a very good product pipeline as well for the second half including new replacement tubes for CT some new filmless imaging X-ray tubes and then a number of new products in our panel business as well.
So we're encouraged about the new product list we can get in the second half.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
So there's -- I guess I'm thinking rolling blackouts things of that nature manufacturing disruption you're not seeing or hearing anything of that kind? That was kind of last year's news and what we're really hearing is about a rebalancing of their overall inventory.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's helpful.
And if I may just sneak in one more.
Smart Segmentation received FDA clearance recently.
Can you provide us with some feedback on how that's being taken in the marketplace? Smart Segmentation will really be viewed as a very positive productivity and effectiveness play for our customers.
I'd be very encouraged about the ability to do treatment planning faster and the ability to contour quickly get recommendations and make their treatment planning decisions much much faster and achieve really outstanding treatment planning.
So the initial reception has been excellent on Smart Segmentation.
Our next question comes from the line of Tycho Peterson of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you can talk to the sustainability of the trends you're seeing in Europe.
I mean I know some of what you saw this quarter was again some easier comp but you obviously had high teens low 20s order growth the last two quarters there.
So just talk about the sustainability of some of those order trends in Europe.
I think -- let me cast it overall.
I think it really points to the -- we didn't have a great quarter in North America and yet we delivered 6% growth overall and it talks to the great balance that we have globally right now.
We had a terrific quarter in Asia we had a very solid quarter in Europe and Australia and Latin America and we had a bad quarter in U.S.
If we can pull the U.S.
up we're going to rebalance this just fine.
With Southern Europe we saw some softness already last year.
We don't see that improving right away.
Tim would you like to add anything else there? No.
I think you've covered the waterfront.
Research Division</strong> And then just to follow up on the U.S.
comment how contained were the delays or push outs? I'm just trying to get a sense as to whether these were a few larger centers and mainly on the TrueBeam side.
Or can you just give us a sense of how widespread the push outs were? Dow why don't you take that? I'd say it was concentrated really in 2 or 3 big sites and the high end of our product line so TrueBeam and maybe a few Trilogy and other high-energy systems.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Petrone of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to -- one on -- just to say on actually oncology service revenue.
I don't know if I'm doing the math correctly here but based on my math it grew a little bit over 7% this quarter and that's down from last year's growth rate.
It's been decelerating for a few quarters.
Is that just the result of the light bookings in North America over the past few quarters? Or is there something else going on there perhaps lower ASPs on new contracts? And then one follow-up on the North American orders.
So it sounds like it was a hospital customer.
Is there any look into actually why they pulled back? Was it a function of credit accessibility budget concerns or similar reimbursement concerns that some of the freestanding clinics had? So Anthony let me take the service question.
I'm not positive where your math is coming from but our service on revenue was up in the mid-teens and the net orders was in the high teens.
So we had a fantastic quarter in our service business.
On the delays it's none of the above.
It's just internal processes.
Signatures.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Johnson of Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Dow I want to go back to a point you made where you talked about Siemens accounting for about 8% of the market and that you've been taking about 50 orders a year from them.
What's your sources? Or how do you guys break down how many maybe Siemens linear accelerators are coming up for bid each year? My sense is that number is around 200 but that you and some of the others are already taking maybe 100 of those combined each year.
So how big is that kind of incremental opportunity of Linacs that you're not already taking share from? We think that their overall market share has been 8%.
I don't know that our science is as accurate as yours is Jeff.
But I think your number of about 100 systems sounds pretty good.
Research Division</strong> So that would be 100 systems maybe that you haven't and nobody else has been taking that they've been kind of rebooking each year even though maybe 200 of their systems are coming up for bid each year.
Is that fair? Yes and I think it's -- it'll be interesting to see how it evolved a little bit.
I would say they've had some markets historically where they've done very well but they've also been the low-priced guy in those markets.
So I think that will be kind of interesting.
China they've done well; some other Eastern Europe markets where -- Middle East markets where they've done well.
And in the U.S.
they tend to do well in the enterprise accounts where they're providing all the diagnostic imaging and IT.
So I think those will be the markets where it opens up.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And just a follow-up question for Elisha some housekeeping here.
Just what was the Calypso contribution in revenue this quarter? And can you remind me last quarter what you were guiding to for tax rate? I know this year -- or this quarter you took that to 30% I think if I go back to my notes.
But just what was it last quarter implied in your guidance? We -- I said 30% to 31%.
So it's about a 50 basis point improvement for the Japanese tax law.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Calypso revenue? Well look.
I don't want to get into breaking out revenue.
I can tell you it was pretty much in line with our expectation.
It was low it's under $5 million and that's exactly what we expected because again Varian's distribution channel we are going to sell more through bundling.
And so the revenue is going to follow a year later.
Our next question comes from the line of Junaid Husain of Dougherty &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Tim just one question for you.
I know that over the past couple of quarters you've been spending a good deal more time on business development.
You pulled the trigger on at least one small deal.
Are you still spending about that same amount of time on business development? I've got Dow in the COO job now and so he's doing a lot of things for me that's given me more time.
So I'm kind of wondering around the building looking for work and so I'm spending more time on business development yes.
Whether you should read anything into that in terms of its implications I probably not.
It's just I have more time to spend on it.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Beuchaw of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> One housekeeping item Elisha.
Was there any impact of currency movement on earnings in the quarter or the outlook for the year? Well we would prefer a weak dollar obviously and it's not moving in the right direction.
So what happens is we are pretty naturally hedged.
It's never perfect so there is a little bit of impact.
I don't have an exact number for you.
But obviously on the top line as the euro has been strengthening that impacts the guidance that we gave for the full year.
So we would love to have a weaker dollar.
Unfortunately I don't think that's going to be happening the rest of this fiscal year from where we sit today.
We do have the proton business which is European-based which is helping us to become more naturally hedged.
Research Division</strong> And then Tim put it simply I mean the last 2 quarters in the North American oncology market has frankly been tough.
And I think the mid-single digit growth profile in that market has been a key to the overall organic outlook for the company.
So given that can you give us a sense for where you think that order trend could go over the next 12 24 months and given the outlook for the overall organic growth profile for the company and what are the drivers of any rebound that keep you comfortable with those expectations? In general I think that the organic -- that the North American market is going to grow.
And that given any individual quarter is more of an event rather than a trend right now I think there is growth in the North American market.
But I think it's in the single digits.
And in some quarters it's going to be down and in other quarters it's going to be up.
But I don't think in the long run -- and I'm not talking about this year; I'm talking about in the long run.
In the long run I think the North American market is going to grow but the major source of growth for the company is going to be outside of North America.
So it's very important for us to get companies like TrueBeam and -- at higher take rates outside of North America.
That's what we saw happen in this quarter so it fills me with confidence that we're going to get additional growth.
Plus we've done well in some recent deals around the world in these small territories and growing territories.
So all of those things I think are very important.
The U.S.
market is more and more a replacement market.
That's not -- that probably means is not -- we won't see stupendous growth.
But what we can get is if we can speed up the replacement market that would be nice.
We still have a huge number of machines in North America that are quite old.
And so if we can continue to stimulate that market I think that we can still see in the single digits for North America.
Outside of that the big business will be elsewhere.
Also another key driver that I should remember is stereotactic radiosurgery in North America.
If we can get lung and liver indications to take off that is if we can get operable lung cancer patients and if we can get operable liver and learn how to treat them with radiation with stereotactic radiosurgery and get that to be widely accepted in the United States it will be a huge boost to our business here.
So there's some upside possibilities as well and don't forget protons.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Dalton Chandler of Needham &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could maybe put some quantification around the order push out? For example you are down 11% in North America.
If the orders they come in as expected where do you think you might have been? Dow? I think probably as specific as we want to get is Dalton it was 2 or 3 big customers.
Yes I don't think we can be more specific than that and you can look at our history and judge what big customers are like.
No further questions at this time.
I will now like to turn the Q&amp;A session over to Mr.
Spencer Sias for closing remarks.
Thank you for participating.
The replay of this call can be heard on the Varian Investor website at www.varian.com/investor.
We'll archive it there for a year.
To hear a telephone replay please call 1 (888) 286-8010 from inside the U.S.
or 1 (617) 801-6888 from outside the U.S.
and enter confirmation code number 39547714.
The telephone replay will be available through 5:00 p.m.
this Friday January 27.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2012 Varian Medical Systems Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Anissia and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Spencer Sias.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and welcome to Varian Medical Systems Conference Call for the Second Quarter of Fiscal Year 2012.
Participating in this call are Tim Guertin President and CEO; Elisha Finney CFO; Dow Wilson Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Tai Chen our Corporate Controller.
Tim and Elisha will summarize our results and we'll take your questions following the presentation.
To simplify our discussion unless otherwise stated all references to the quarter or year are fiscal quarters and fiscal years quarterly comparisons over to second quarter of fiscal 2012 versus the second quarter fiscal 2011.
Please be advised that this presentation and discussion contains forward-looking statements.
Our use of words and phrases such as outlook could should believe think appear opportunity can expect potential and similar expressions are intended to identify those statements which represent our current judgment on future performance or other future matters.
While we believe them to be reasonable based on information currently available to us these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of the important risks relating to our business are described in our second quarter earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements in this presentation and discussion because of new information future events or otherwise.
Before we start this call please mark your calendars for our mid-year review meeting with investors in New York at 11:30 a.m.
on Monday May 7 at the Intercontinental Hotel Times Square.
We'll issue more details on this meeting and webcast tomorrow.
And now here's Tim.
Good afternoon and welcome.
Today we're reporting results for the second quarter of 2012 with healthy growth in revenue net orders and backlog but with mixed margin results.
Earnings were $0.94 including a $0.02 restructuring charge associated with the realignment of resources to support our ongoing growth in emerging markets.
I will comment on the operational highlights for the quarter as well as our exciting newly announced global collaboration with Siemens and Elisha will walk you through the numbers.
To summarize our second quarter 2012 results compared to the year-ago quarter company revenues for the quarter rose by 11% to $720 million.
Net orders were up nicely in all of our businesses and our backlog increased by 18% to $2.7 billion.
Excluding proton order backlog was up 12%.
Our company gross margin dropped by more than 3 points with a record margin in our X-ray Product business that was more than offset by reduced margin in our Oncology business and higher-than-expected proton revenues that were booked on a 0 profit percentage of completion basis.
Turning to our Oncology Systems business second quarter revenues were $565 million up 11% from the year-ago quarter.
However margins in this business declined to an unusually low level in the quarter due to a significant geographic mix to lower-margin countries weaker pricing in those markets and slower-than-anticipated progress in product cost reduction programs.
These programs should begin to show results during the second half of the year when we expect margins to recover somewhat to more historical levels.
Net orders totaled $565 million up 9% with a 14% increase in North America and a 4% increase in our overall international market which accounted for 55% of the total orders for this business during the period.
Second quarter orders in the North American market which experienced some push outs in the first quarter of this year included a major win at Montreal General Hospital which replaced an -- which excuse me which placed an order for several TrueBeam systems.
Several other sites placed orders for multiple TrueBeam units during the period including the Thomas Jefferson University Hospital system and New York-Presbyterian Hospital.
Software orders in North America were also strong including competitive replacements or treatment planning and information systems at several sites.
We are particularly pleased to have achieved double-digit growth in North America on top of double-digit growth in the comparable prior year quarter.
In the international market compared to the second quarter of last year net orders rose 30% in Asia on an easy comp and increased 1% in Europe on a tough comp.
In the rest of the world net orders declined versus very strong growth in the year-ago quarter.
Second quarter orders in China rose by more than 50% reflecting a successful effort to revitalize and restructure our sales force there.
Thailand and Taiwan also drove the strong orders performance in Asia.
We booked our first TrueBeam orders in Japan and Taiwan and installed our first TrueBeam systems in Korea.
We are hopeful that this platform will become a growth driver in this important region.
In Europe we had mixed results many countries growing and others quiet.
At this time it's difficult to draw any conclusions regarding the impact of financial and banking worries on the European market.
It appears the market has continued to invest in better clinical capability albeit in a sporadic and somewhat lumpy fashion.
TrueBeam comprised more than 45% of our high-energy machine orders during the quarter.
We booked more than 60 TrueBeam orders during the quarter and we now have nearly 490 orders for this system since its introduction 2 years ago.
It is gratifying to see the total accelerator unit order volume was up versus the year-ago quarter even as TrueBeam becomes a higher percentage of orders compared to our other high-energy models.
We now have more than 230 installations complete or in progress around the globe.
As you know our goal is to help save more lives every year by advancing the clinical capability of our technology.
So I would like to update you on key studies that have been published in the last quarter.
We believe that these types of studies play an important role in driving long-term market growth.
The use of IMRT for prostate cancer treatment has been the subject of much debate.
I'm pleased to report that a study published last week in the Journal of the American Medical Association supports the use of IMRT for this disease.
Another prostate cancer study at Memorial Sloan-Kettering showed that image-guided IMRT is superior to IMRT without image guidance.
This data appears in a paper that is in the process of being published by the International Journal of Radiation Oncology Biology and Physics or the Red Journal as it is known in the industry.
Moving on to tumors of the brain and spine.
Clinicians at the University of Alabama at Birmingham have published 2 articles on their use of Varian technology for radiosurgery.
One group reporting in practical radiation oncology found that it could treat up to 4 brain metastases simultaneously using RapidArc radiosurgery and that it could do it within 15 minutes an order of magnitude faster than is possible with conventional cobalt and robotic surgery systems without any sacrifice in the position or quality of treatment.
A second group which published its results in the Journal of Radiosurgery and SBRT used the fast-dose delivery speed of our TrueBeam STx system to treat tumors of the brain or spine in an average time of 11 minutes.
Typically these demanding procedures can take upwards of an hour at lower dose delivery rates which is not only hard on the patient but also very expensive.
These studies mark the progress that is being made in the fight to control cancer with radiotherapy and radiosurgery and enhance efficiency of these treatments methods.
I recommend that you read them to fully appreciate the work that is being done in this field.
We expect to see more of these studies as trials for lung and liver treatments get underway.
Coincident with issuing our second quarter earnings performance we announced a major new partnership with Siemens today.
This is an exciting development that will enable Varian to enhance and expand its clinical offerings to the benefit of cancer patients around the globe.
By developing strong software connectivity and new architecture linking Siemens and Varian Systems together we can give clinics an important new options for imaging and treating patients.
Another key objective of this partnership is to accelerate innovation and provide more efficient and effective solutions particularly in emerging markets.
Varian will represent Siemens diagnostic imaging products such as CT PET-CT or MRI to radiation oncology clinics around the world beginning immediately in most international markets and expand it in North America later this year.
Siemens Healthcare will similarly represent Varian equipment and software for radiotherapy and radiosurgery within its offerings to its healthcare customers.
This will enable the companies to offer comprehensive solutions to support the entire clinical workflow from imaging to treatment.
Siemens will continue to service and support its global installed base of approximately 2 000 medical linear accelerators.
This agreement will give Siemens customers more choices for therapy equipment as aging accelerators are due for replacement.
I believe this partnership will expand the growth opportunities for both of our companies and we're very pleased to be working with Siemens in this endeavor.
Our X-ray Products business appears to be recovering from a weak first quarter when Japanese customers slowed purchasing in order to adjust their inventories.
While the second quarter started slowly it ended on a strong note signaling that the inventory adjustment in Japan appears to be behind us.
The business achieved record margins as the result of product mix improved quality performance and cost controls.
Net orders were $130 million up 5% from the year-ago period and revenues rose 4% to $123 million.
Sales of high-powered CT tubes in Japan were particularly strong.
Orders in our somewhat longer-cycle plant panel business were up in double digits with strong demand for our digital radiography products.
We have now completed our previously announced acquisition of InfiMed thereby adding imaging processing workstations hardware and software to the X-Ray Products portfolio.
The addition of InfiMed's products and technical expertise will enable Varian to better serve our X-ray customers as a one-stop shop for X-ray tubes flat panel image detectors and workstations.
We expect that we will be able to offer more fully integrated X-ray component solutions that can be incorporated more easily into our customers' X-ray imaging systems.
It should help our customers to achieve improved performance and time-to-market for their equipment.
Our Other category had a very good second quarter both in the Varian Particle Therapy business and in our Security and Inspections Product business.
Combined net orders for the category were $168 million with $124 million in 2 orders for our ProBeam Proton Therapy Systems and $44 million in net orders for Security and Inspection Products.
As was reported earlier in the quarter we booked an order for ProBeam system at a center that will be built in Saudi Arabia and another order for a proton clinic that will be built in St.
Petersburg Russia.
Since September of last year the Varian Particle Therapy business has booked $212 million in orders.
We're delighted to see a gain momentum.
Our ongoing installation at the Scripps Proton Center near San Diego is going well.
And I'm pleased to report that we hit a historic milestone last week when we successfully accelerated and extracted a $250 million electron volt proton beam from the superconducting cyclotron that we have installed there.
Our installation work is continuing and our next steps will be to commission the beam transport system and the gantry treatment rooms with a goal of enabling Scripps to commence patient treatments in 2013.
The cyclotron is one of the key elements of the system and the realization of this milestone on schedule helps to validate the production testing transport and installation processes that were implemented over the past year.
You also may have seen media coverage last week at the groundbreaking on a new proton therapy facility at the University of Maryland.
We expect to book an equipment order from this center when the financing package of the project is complete.
Orders in our Security business increased as customers won public tenders for more compact high-speed cargo screening installations with our materials discrimination technology in locations around the world.
And so now here is Elisha to cover the financials.
Great.
Thanks Tim and hello everyone.
Typically at the outset I talk about constant currency growth rates.
But this quarter there is no need to discuss that as the U.S.
dollar and constant currency growth rates for orders and sales are virtually identical for the quarter and year to date.
Second quarter revenues increased 11% to $720 million.
Oncology Systems posted an 11% increase with strong revenue growth in Europe and rest of world.
Revenues rose sharply in our emerging markets including BRIC countries Turkey Ukraine Saudi and South Korea while the U.S.
revenues were up in single digits.
Japanese revenues were down significantly from the year-ago quarter when we benefited from stimulus-generated delivery.
X-Ray Products posted a gain of 4% as revenues picked up in March with renewed spending in Japan.
Revenues from businesses under the Other category increased by 42% including $14 million of revenue for the Scripps Proton Therapy contract.
The Scripps revenue was above our forecast for the quarter as all of the remaining equipment was delivered on site.
And for the year we now believe that our total proton revenue could approximate $60 million.
The second quarter gross margin for the company fell by more than 3 points to 41.2%.
Oncology Systems' gross margin declined by 3 points to 42.2% due primarily to a significant geographic shift away from our high-margin countries to our lower margin countries.
For example in Japan where our customers tend to buy our most sophisticated equipment revenues were down nearly 40% quarter-over-quarter while the previously mentioned lower margin emerging market revenues were up nearly 30%.
Additionally in certain international markets we are experiencing some competitive pricing pressure.
For the second half oncology margins should return to a more normal historical level of 44% to 45%.
X-ray Products' gross margin hit a new record climbing almost 3 points to 43% due largely to product mix and improved quality cost.
The gross margin for the Other business and the total company was negatively impacted by the Scripps contract under which revenue is being recorded using the percentage of completion method.
Under this method revenues are initially recognized equal to cost with the expectation that profits will be recognized toward the end of the project.
The Scripps contract negatively impacted the company's second quarter gross margin by nearly 1 point.
For the year we now expect that gross margin for the total company will decline by about 1 point from last year to between 42% and 43%.
Second quarter SG&amp;A expenses were $106 million or 15% of revenues up slightly as a percentage of revenue from the year-ago quarter.
SG&amp;A was impacted by our $2.5 million restructuring charge which involved a work force reduction in North America in order to support a realignment of resources and put more emphasis on sales and marketing activities in our emerging markets.
For the second half we expect to see higher than previously anticipated SG&amp;A expenses due largely to increased legal expenses as well as start-up costs associated with our Siemens partnership.
Second quarter R&amp;D expenses were $47 million or 7% of revenues down slightly as a percent of revenue with the year ago quarter.
Moving down the income statement.
Second quarter operating earnings totaled $144 million down 3 points to 20% of revenues.
Excluding the restructuring charge and proton revenues operating earnings for the quarter were 21% of revenue.
Depreciation and amortization totaled $14 million for the quarter.
The effective tax rate was 25.3% for the quarter down about 6 points from the year-ago period due almost exclusively to the geographic shift in earnings toward lower tax jurisdictions.
While the geographic shift had a negative effect on our gross margin much of this effect is offset in a lower overall corporate tax rate.
For fiscal year 2012 we now estimate that the tax rate will be approximately 28% for the third quarter and the full fiscal year.
Fully diluted shares outstanding decreased significantly from the year-ago quarter to $114.5 million due largely to our ongoing share repurchase programs.
Including the $0.02 restructuring charge diluted earnings per share rose 9% to $0.94.
Turning now to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalent of $617 million debt of $162 million and stockholders equity of 1.4 billion.
Subsequent to the close of the quarter we have continued to pay down short-term debt under our revolving line of credit.
And as of today our total net debt is about $130 million.
DSO increased by 4 days from the year ago quarter to 83 including a 5-day impact from the Particle Therapy business.
Second quarter cash flow from operations was $105 million roughly equal with net earnings.
Primary uses of cash were 75 million to repurchase 1.1 million shares of stock.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately 6 million shares remaining under a repurchase authorization.
Now I'll turn it back over to Tim for the outlook.
Thanks Elisha.
Overall in the second quarter we had a lot of good news including strong growth in company revenue orders and backlog 2 new proton system orders and a record gross margin in our X-ray Products business.
We're now facing some margin challenges in our Oncology business as we invest and move into -- more aggressively into emerging markets and pursue product cost reductions.
Including the impact of oncology's gross margin as well as increased costs for legal proceedings and start-up costs associated with the new Siemens partnership we're now adjusting our outlook for the remainder of the year.
For fiscal 2012 we now expect earnings from continuing operations to increase over fiscal 2011 total by 9% to 12% to a range of $3.76 to $3.84 per diluted share.
Annual revenue should increase over the fiscal 2011 total by about 10%.
For the third quarter we expect earnings per share to increase by 10% to 14% over the prior year quarter to a range of $0.91 to $0.95 per diluted share.
Revenues for the third quarter should be 9% to 10% over the third quarter of fiscal 2011.
Thank you for your attention and we're now ready for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from the line of Jeremy Feffer with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask first on the margin issues from the quarter.
What is giving you comfort that it was just a one quarter hiccup in the geographic mix and price reduction things like that will rebound in the second half? Sure.
Well -- I mean we had a -- really an unprecedented geographic shift in the second quarter where emerging markets up nearly 30% and our highest margin territory Japan where they tend to buy very rich feature set machines being down almost 40%.
We have -- historically we've gone in and when we look at the backlog we look at region and we can apply some averages for Europe for Asia for North America.
What we have now done is we've gone into the backlog machine by machine and we're really looking at it based on the profitability and getting more granular in terms of going into these emerging markets and really looking at the margin impact.
So when we look out into Q2 -- into Q3 and Q4 it's not going to be at the margin level that we had first anticipated because of all of the issues that we've talked about.
But we do think it's going to get back to a -- closer to the historical range of the 44% to 45% levels for oncology.
Research Division</strong> And then staying with oncology when Elekta reported its January quarter they noted some particular weakness in Asia.
You guys obviously saw some strength.
Can you comment on the general market share trends there? Are you -- is this affirmation that you are picking up share in Asia? Well I think that everybody is seeing the same thing in Japan which is that Japan is way down from the stimulus a few years ago.
And as Elisha mentioned earlier we were down -- I think it was 40% from a year ago.
So I think everybody was impacted by that Elekta and Varian.
I think we are doing better in China than people expected.
I think we're doing better than anybody expected us to do in China and that's good news.
I think our new team is doing well and that may be probably a majority of the explanation for the way Siemens -- I mean excuse me Elekta looks at it and the way Varian looks at it.
Yes and let me just clarify to make sure that Tim and I aren't confusing you that the 40% decline is in revenues reflecting the prior year ending of the stimulus program.
The orders for Japan and the Far East in general were very strong this quarter.
And the next question comes from the line of Steve Beuchaw with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A quick one on gross margins.
Understanding of course that the geographic mix is a critical driver.
Could you speak to the trends in terms of gross margins in developed markets over the last quarter let's call it 2 quarters.
I mean has there been any breaking trends there? And then on the COGS programs that you referenced how much would you expect these to contribute in terms of dollars or a fraction on margin? Yes.
Well what we're seeing is that some countries are okay; other countries other territories are not.
And what's happening is it depends on the competitive profile of those countries and it depends on the budgets in those countries.
What we're seeing is that some of these locations they just don't have the budget but they still have an appetite for our very high-end machines.
And so our sales forces are having to accommodate this in order to get this business.
And so that's put pressure on certain countries.
And so what we've seen in Q2 and what I think we're going to see more in Q3 and Q4 than we thought 3 months ago is we're seeing more of these shipments to these kinds of countries than was expected just even 3 months ago.
And so as our backlog is filling up for the year it helps us to get more and more accurate as the year goes on about what's going to happen.
But as we fill out that backlog it's becoming clear that countries like the United States and Japan that formerly were a big part of our business and had -- and where people bought favorable mixes of machines are being replaced by locations where the mix is not so favorable.
So that's kind of the general picture.
And I don't want to break the cost reductions down to exactly how much we're going to get Steve but suffice it to say that we're going to be aggressively going after it.
We're going to be chipping it away chipping away at it little by little and this is something that we'll continue into next year as the plan is to put some more engineering resources on cost reduction areas as it's becoming apparent that certain markets just aren't going to pay full price for some of the features that we've come out with.
Research Division</strong> Great that's really helpful.
And then one on TrueBeam.
Could you comment on how the TrueBeam mix has trended in the developed markets specifically over the last couple of quarters? And then that Montréal order that you mentioned you said it was several systems I take that to mean 5 or 6.
Am I off base there? So you're talking about orders and not sales? Research Division</strong> That's right.
Okay.
The Montréal system was -- I'm trying to remember 5 something like that 5 or 6.
Boy it's embarrassing that I don't know that number.
And in the TrueBeams in Europe -- and you got to remember we just -- only --  it wasn't very long ago we got permission to sell TrueBeam in some of these countries like Japan and China and places like that.
And so now of course we're seeing a marked rise in that business.
I don't -- I can't calibrate it for you exactly at this moment to give you how many TrueBeams in these developing territories but all I can tell you is it's quite a bit more because last year we were just getting started in these territories.
Research Division</strong> And then on the U.S.
in particular given that there's more of a data to build the trend on? I think our take [ph] rate of TrueBeams in the United States is about what it was before.
And the next question comes from the line of Amit Bhalla with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Elisha a question for you.
I mean if I look at the guidance you're taking the midpoint from your prior previous guidance down by about $0.15.
And if you gross that up that's about $20 million to $25 million of additional expense between now and the end of the year between the 3 points that you laid out: oncology legal and Siemens start-up.
Can you break that amount between the 3 of those categories and talk to us about how long going forward these added expenses are going to take place? Sure well to give the 50 000-foot answer Amit is it's about 50-50 of that $0.15.
But let me kind of give you the guidance walk if you will from where we are today versus where we were last quarter.
The sales number in total is really not changing at about that 10% increase.
However what we're seeing is that the sales shift we've got a lower about $10 million sales coming across the board from our businesses a little bit in oncology a little bit in X-ray little bit in Security offset by $10 million of proton revenue carrying a 0 margin.
So that alone has call it a $4 million impact.
The gross margin down about a little more than a point from what we had previously thought is largely due to oncology and all of the issues that we've mentioned.
And then when I look at the operating expenses that includes the risk charge it includes Siemens start-up cost we have a break-up penalty we have training we're going to do we're hiring people to support this agreement.
We have some additional legal cost over some of the losses that you're aware of as well as the acquisition of InfiMed which is increasing the SG&amp;A cost as well.
It's dilutive to the bottom line but it is increasing SG&amp;A.
A lot of that is in offset in the tax rates so that you get to your Delta that you mentioned of the $0.15 to $0.16.
Research Division</strong> So let me understand.
I mean you guys have been pursuing an overseas strategy because that really is where a lot of the growth in the market is coming from.
Are we entering kind of a new normal for profitability for the company going forward? Well I think that there is -- the strategy of the company dictates that more and more of our business over time is going to come from international.
If that international mix comes from territories like Japan and certain countries in Europe especially Northern Europe where the mix tends to be good that's -- then that's great.
If it's going to be coming more and more from BRIC countries then we're going to see margins affected.
So the consequence is what do you do when you know that you're going to go into territories where you're not going to have this favorable a mix as you've had in the past? Well to some extent that is going to impact gross margin.
The way you deal with that is you do cost reductions you try to add features that you think you will be appealing in those markets you try to add new services that you think will be appealing in those markets you try to build sales forces in those markets that can get proper value for what you're selling.
And so it's a combination of new products and services and cost reductions in order to deal with this.
Now will this benefit the bottom line? Yes over time I think that this has a good effect on EBIT and it has a good effect on EPS but it will make gross margin more challenging in the future.
I think we all knew this.
I don't think anybody here expected 3 months ago that the effect would be this strong in 2012 for this.
But in our long-term strategies we recognize that this was a situation we're going to have to cope with and we're putting those plans into effect.
So you'll see this speed of some of our plans and probably slow down some other things to try to make -- take this into account.
And I just do want to reiterate that if you exclude the proton revenue for the full fiscal year the total company margin decline that we're talking about is about 1 point.
We're still at 43% to 44% and it was small...
Yes the proton effect was pretty -- what was it $50 million -- $60 million of proton sales with 0 margin? That was a real anchor on gross margin percentages.
Now ultimately I think the Proton business is going to be great for the company.
It won't be great at the gross margin level.
It will be great at the EBIT and EPS level.
So there's businesses like this that we think we have to get into that it's appropriate for us to get into that were going to give us a lot of revenue and are going to give us rapid EBIT but temporarily they're producing effects like this.
Research Division</strong> I apologize with the follow-up but I really just need to understand at the operating margin level do you still feel comfortable that the company is in the low 20s or is there the potential that the operating margin of the business can deteriorate further from where you are at this quarter? Well again if you exclude the proton business and there is some proton revenue in FY '11 in Q4 that has to come out as well as what we -- what -- the $60 million in FY '12.
The RoS once you pencil this out is going to be about 21.5% so it's still I would say low 20s.
But we have we've gone back we've scrubbed.
It's the best we can predict at this point based on all of the information that we have.
But that's not saying what we're going to do going into next year.
I can tell you that the biggest torque we're going to get on it going forward is that we can get this proton therapy business profitable as opposed to being significantly diluted that it is today.
And the next question comes from the line of Anthony Petrone with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of housekeeping and then a little bit more on the margin and the North American trends in the quarter.
The service revenue growth I don't know if that was actually given in the prepared comments and if it was then I apologize but do you have that number handy? It was in line with the overall Oncology growth rate in the quarter.
Yes it was pretty good.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then just on last quarter Tim you had mentioned or Elisha that a couple of orders in North America were delayed and you're expecting perhaps those to hit in this quarter or some of the following quarters.
Did those orders hit this quarter or are you still expecting that in the second half of the year? Yes that's why you saw the nice 14% growth in North American orders for Oncology because a number of them hit.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So if we go back I think it was about 3 deals that slipped and so all of those were booked this quarter.
Or do you still expect...
No no not all were booked.
But some of the ones that I really wanted to hit in the first quarter hit in the second quarter but it's never perfect like that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then I guess one on Siemens on the collaboration.
I don't know if it's clear at this point but are you going to receive distribution fees on their MR and CT placements? And likewise on conversely the Siemens is there any distribution fee that goes to them when they place a Varian linear accelerator? Yes and yes.
Yes.
Just a little clarity on the former: We'll get a distribution fee when it goes into radiation oncology driver [ph] not in a radiology customer.
Right.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So is part of that -- is it too early to suggest that part of that is already being reflected in the gross margin or...
Oh no.
We just signed this agreement yesterday...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But as we look in the guidance that you have for this year...
No there's -- the only effect this year is actually -- is preparatory.
In the United States we have a current arrangement that is going to take 6 months to expire.
So this will have no effect in the U.S.
which is of course where the bulk of our sales efforts were -- for -- and so we're -- there'll be no effect in the U.S.
and we're just going to be in getting started mode in Europe so -- and our revenue it comes when those units are -- I mean our -- any payments would come when those units are installed which is not likely to be this year.
So I suspect this is going to have a positive effect on 2013 but it has an I don't know like a $0.02 effect in -- a negative $0.02 wind in 2012.
Yes the big win for us in this deal is we get connectivity between the Siemens installed base and our ARIA oncology information system.
That's access that we have not had in the market before.
Siemens customers have not been able to connect to the ARIA installed base so we are very encouraged about that connectivity.
And that's where the real driver both from a top line and a margin perspective are going to be for us in the long term with this relationship.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So last one for me and I'll get back in queue.
So just to clarify the entire Siemens base will eventually get ARIA as definitively.
Or does the sales force have to go and offer up that option and then they have that option to add in ARIA? And then ultimately how do you see this deal benefiting Varian as it relates to the newly freed up linear accelerators that are going to be on the market? We do have to sell it.
So it is -- there is -- Siemens customers either have no information system or something called LANTIS which was a joint venture between Elekta and Siemens.
And as they upgrade -- especially in multi-Linac departments as they upgrade they want new information systems.
LANTIS is quite old.
They need new functionality especially for managing imaging and new advanced features so they have to upgrade.
We've really not been able to participate in that market historically.
That's what this opens up for customers and we're very excited about that.
Of course our global footprint and bundling of orders when it's -- it's bundled with diagnostic imaging.
They have 2 000 around 2 000 machines in their installed base.
Most of those customers are -- those customers have years to replace those machines.
But generally when a company exits under these circumstances a fair number of customers will try to replace those machines faster than they otherwise would.
So if they try to replace those machines faster than they otherwise would and we can now interface with Siemens' machines that remain in the department and we have the cooperation of Siemens sales and management team in these situations especially at those hospitals where hospitals that favored Siemens diagnostic equipment it gives us an edge that we just simply did not have before.
So we are very pleased about that.
The next question comes from the line of Sean Lavin with Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations on a nice quarter and the Siemens agreement.
Thank you.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about Siemens.
On one hand now you're going to be working with them but at the same time we know some hospitals may be walking away from their backlog.
How do you compete for those machines and also juggle partnership? I guess my view of it Sean is Siemens has just signaled who their preferred partner is yes.
We got to go compete on it.
It's not a done deal per se but...
Research Division</strong> So they don't mind you stepping in there with kind of past orders of theirs? Well on their backlog they clearly liked to deliver their backlog.
I'm sure if you were to call them and ask them to deliver their -- what their backlog position is they'd still love to deliver their backlog.
But if they have a customer that wants to get out of their backlog's position we'd certainly have a shot at it.
And this is really -- I think our perspective is as Tim said before there's 2 000 units out there.
Their backlog is actually not that big and we -- we're -- our interest is competing on those 2 000 machines and making sure that we've got the best alternative for those customers.
Research Division</strong> And then as you talk about software for those 2 000 potential machines what kind of revenue would upgrading a machine kind of entail? Well that's of course -- the biggest piece is the machine trade-out and that would be depending on the configuration sold anywhere between $1.8 million and $3 million for the machine itself.
And then the software you have the software cost depending on the configuration of what's there.
It could be anywhere between $75 000 and a couple hundred thousand dollars depending on the configuration.
And then of course there's treatment planning in play as well as service tail that is very profitable.
So it's -- over time it's a very interesting opportunity for us.
There's another element here too which is that right now the impact piece the piece that was sold by Siemens is a software under license to Elekta.
If -- and so we want to see that replaced by ARIA because right now whenever we add a new machine Elekta gets a certain amount of money to that new machine.
And this way revenue comes to us instead of Elekta when Varian gets the machine and I think that's nice to see.
Research Division</strong> Is this deal with Siemens exclusive such that they couldn't do something with Elekta? Well they have commitments to Elekta that they have to fulfill under their existing agreement but we are their preferred choice going forward for information systems and for linear accelerators.
This really levels if not tilts the plane the field in our favor.
Before this is access we did not have.
We could not talk to these machines.
It was a major weakness in our oncology information system strategy.
Research Division</strong> And then my last one is on -- I guess since Siemens has left the business and you're moving towards a duopoly have you seen Elekta make any changes in their pricing strategy? I would -- I'm going to ask for more time to answer that question because the -- I only have one quarter's worth of information on this.
But frankly I don't think a duopoly has made Elekta any less of a discounter.
If anything it may have made them go the other way.
I think Elekta is now seeing the possibility of more business and they want to get that more business and they see the growth possibilities.
So ordinarily in a situation like this you would hope for different behavior but I think we're just going to get more of the same.
And the next question comes from the line of Tycho Peterson with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I apologize I'm going to ask you one on Siemens as well.
But I'm just trying to understand the thought process here: Was this out of kind of necessity or opportunity? In other words Siemens has been an ineffective competitor for a long time.
You know where their Linacs are.
I understand you need the connectivity but couldn't you do that through a software collaboration and not at the distribution component which is presumably going to be lower margin? We think this is a huge opportunity.
We've talked about the installed base.
The other thing is Siemens' presence has been very good in international and emerging markets so this is a very exciting opportunity for us globally.
And it also helps us in that part of the market where there's good growth.
And this installed base has some age to it.
So we want every opportunity we can get to sell into that installed base.
And on the margin side I -- just to be clear in many instances we're actually just replacing an existing distributor relationship with Siemens so this is not dilutive to margins in that case and clearly opens up a big white space for us to go after in terms of just a much bigger global footprint.
And just dealing -- going back to the comment you made earlier: It was not possible to talk to Siemens machines without the cooperation of Siemens.
They have to provide test facilities.
They have to provide interface specifications and all of those specifications were kind of co-controlled by Elekta and Siemens and they were closed to us.
So a lot of deals in Europe.
This was not all that much of a problem in the United States but it was a big problem for us in Europe because Dow and I would go to meetings in Europe and our salespeople would point out to us: "Hey we can't sell ARIA to this customer.
We can't sell our RV system." And so our most advanced clinical capabilities that we might sell on our machine are not available to this customer so it effectively enables -- you can sell this great machine and our customers can't fully use it.
And so this was a very frustrating situation for us.
And it required a partnership with Siemens to do it and that partnership was not possible until we created this arrangement.
Also Siemens is planning on improving these things.
We have given Siemens information and feedback on how we'd like to see the new interfaces designs.
And they're very cooperative with us on this so that's very good.
And the last I want to point out unless we lose track of it: Siemens is an incredibly advanced imaging company.
And they would like to build stronger relationships with us in a variety of ways so all of -- we've only talked here about linear accelerators and interfaces and connectivity and selling information systems.
The fact is this is a wonderful imaging company and they have technologies that I think would be very useful to radiation oncology customers and they want to work with us in those areas.
So I think that although specifically we're not talking today about what those things might be I think that there's great possibility for nice enhancements to product lines in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the margins Elisha I think you had mentioned in your comments some of that was obviously geographic mix but then you mentioned I think slower progress and some product cost programs.
Can you just elaborate on that latter point? I mean how much can you kind of control in the margins by working down manufacturing and input costs? Well again this is just going to be something Tycho that we just constantly are going to start chipping away at.
I mean it's -- I mean we're looking everything from freight to what can we do in terms of our purchasing and vendor pricing.
I mean we are -- it's an all-out program to just attack this $5 000 at a time until it gets to the point where it's significant.
So I can't just point to one thing and say that's the magic bullet.
Again we're going to be increasing engineering resources in this area to specifically focus on how do we cost-reduce this product line.
Yes.
To give you an example: On freight alone because of higher fuel cost we've seen about a $0.02 -- I mean excuse a $0.01 impact to us this year just on fuel costs alone.
And I'm not going to make the machines lighter so that we won't solve the problem that way but it's an example of the kind of thing that's motivating us to look at everything we can.
So we're -- we have projects that are underway.
I would've liked them to come into play in the second half of the year but I think we're going to see them come into effect later in this year and in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one Tim or Dow.
Do you want to just talk on dynamics in the freestanding market? I mean you talked about some of those order delays from last quarter coming through.
But just in general how do we think about the underlying dynamics for freestanding clinics? I'd say in the quarter we did see some life there so that was a positive event in the quarter.
I'm reluctant to point and say that's a trend but we did see some life in the second quarter freestanding market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So is that market back to growth then you think for the year or...
I -- Tycho I'd be really reluctant to say in a one quarter a trend mix.
And we're going to have to come back to you on that next quarter.
We did have -- again it was positive.
We're going to just put a dot on the graph and we'll come back to you next quarter and connect the dots and tell you what we see.
Research Division</strong> And just how about to elaborate one -- for one second just the dynamics between freestanding centers and hospitals clinics? I mean can you just talk on that where we are in that process of hospitals kind of building out outreach clinics and then competing with the freestanding centers? I think as we said last quarter we're seeing that trend continue.
Hospitals are strong.
The strong are playing aggressively especially.
And we are seeing them do more community outreach than we've seen in the past.
So I'd say that trend is maintaining.
And the next question comes from the line of Dalton Chandler with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> You touched on this a little bit already but you did cite pricing pressures as one of the issues driving down margins in the quarter.
It sounded like it was specific to the emerging markets but can you just elaborate on what you're seeing there? It's certain territories in the world.
And yes emerging markets tend to be those more than other places.
I guess I'm not shocked that the BRIC countries and other countries would have this problem.
I was just -- I think we continue to be struggling with strong competition with our few remaining competitors in terms of getting business in those countries.
And this is a kind of a land grab here everybody's going to fight it out and that's what's going on.
In addition these people have more limited budgets than other people do.
So part of what we're trying to do is to adapt what we offer and to the situation so that we can improve and get better margins than we're seeing on these deals going forward.
Some of that's going to be product changes and some of it's going to be just doing a better job of selling.
LLC Research Division</strong> Would you say you're seeing stable pricing in the established markets? We're definitely seeing stable pricing in North America.
We are -- as Tim said earlier we are seeing a little bit of richer product mix but stable pricing in North America for sure.
And Japan I'd say stable as well in that market.
And the next question comes from the line of Jason Wittes with Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of follow-ups here.
First of I know you saw signs of life on the freestanding clinics in the U.S.
Does that have any relation to slightly better optimism on the reimbursement front or is that reading too much into it? It think that's -- we would love to read that into it but I don't think we can at this point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you have a read by the way into that at this point? No no.
It's still way too early.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of proton I think you've increased it to $60 million in revs this year.
I guess first that assumption is that's all coming from Scripps.
That's not an additional project going online.
Or how do I think about that? No it is -- it's about half is Scripps roughly speaking and the rest we're assuming that Saudi and/or Russia.
We will get the project started at which point revenue will start.
So there's still some big assumptions in there for Q4 in particular but we would expect that at least one of those projects will start in this fiscal year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But the $10 million increase is basically half due to Scripps being ahead of schedule and half due to Saudi is that right? Roughly roughly.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up to that and that would be: Are you still thinking about a 2-year installation time? Or are you a little bit more optimistic it might be a little quicker than that given you're a little ahead of schedule at this point? About 1.5 years...
The building is 12 months.
And so from groundbreaking usually the building is about 12 months.
And then we're...
[indiscernible] 1.5 years.
And the machine is about a 1.5 years.
And obviously we're going to be trying everything we can to get that down.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
But that's a slight improvement over I think your initial 2-year assumption? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's good to hear.
Also obviously you can't speak for Elekta but you can speak to your own strategy here.
You're obviously making a pretty strong push into emerging markets.
And it's not that you haven't been there in the past but I don't think you've been as aggressive as you have this year.
And obviously it looks like early results are good especially in Asia.
So I guess my question is -- one I know Asia you've done -- you've put a lot of focus in.
Are there other areas where we should expect an increased focus from you? Number two I assume you are being more aggressive in pricing than you have in the past given you do kind of look at this as a land grab situation.
And so I'd just be curious to get your thoughts on what's going on over there.
I'd say in terms of focus we're really looking at a number of theaters.
It's not just Asia.
Yes Japan and China have been a focus for us continue to be.
That will not change but Southeast Asia is -- we're growing there and adding resources and seeing more of a market.
Middle East has been terrific for us the last 18 months and there's always some lumpiness that goes with that market.
These markets tend to be tender-driven large markets and so it's kind of comes and goes.
But the overall trend is very positive in the Middle East.
Brazil is a major focus for us Turkey Eastern Europe.
So those are just kind of going around the board those are some of the places that we're playing.
Northern Africa actually there's some action in Northern Africa which we typically haven't had them on the list but that looks very very good for us.
I'd say that pricing environment in -- it depends in each country.
So I mean Elisha and Tim talked about the geographic mix hitting us pretty hard this quarter as we do have some different pricing largely driven by what feature sets that people want and whether especially they want to pay the premiums for stereotactic radiosurgery and some of the advanced capabilities that we have on the machines.
So those tend to be the markets that are a little bit more aggressive where folks maybe don't value those -- they're not doing those capabilities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But also just based on comments you guys have made in the past I know in Asia you've set up some training facilities.
I don't know have you done similar -- have you set up similar training facilities in other regions? I mean it seems as if that was a big success at least very early on seeing it.
We have training facilities in Japan China and India and we are looking at adding incremental training facilities as part of this theater strategy that I briefly mentioned.
And Brazil will be a major focus of that where we're very committed to the Brazilian market.
We haven't put that training facility in yet but we're committed to it and see a big education capability growing in Brazil as well as probably the development of some local manufacturing capability in Brazil.
We see Brazil and other parts of Latin America as just beginning large -- well Brazil is well advanced along this growth but other countries are beginning a big potential growth spurt.
And they're going to want more radiation therapy equipment.
And so this is a big opportunity.
So our -- the things that we're looking at in Brazil are an example of what we're going to have to do a lot of in Latin America over the next few years.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One last question then I'll get off -- jump off For proton you had 2 orders basically materialize this quarter which were not expected.
I believe you still at this point -- if you -- you have about 3 in the wings.
And how do we think about it in terms of the pipeline of potential products? And what's a good expectation for what we should expect to see on an annual basis for proton orders right now in the first couple of years? Well I am hoping to get -- I would love to get 3 to 4 deals a year.
And what will those deals be? I think that we might be able to see 100 -- less -- somewhat approaching $200 million in business per year in this not counting services.
And of course once the centers are up we'll get additional service revenue over that.
Long term I'm aiming for $250 million a year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay but $200 million seems like a pretty reasonable bogey.
Yes I think it is.
And the next question comes from the line of Jeff Johnson with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Tim just a couple more questions on the pricing comments the margin outlook  that you've put out there.
Is there any change going on in the orders that are in backlog? I mean typically your backlog visibility is very high.
I'd be surprised 2 quarters in that you have -- all of a sudden you're hit over the head with this geographic mix issue.
You hadn't realized that some of these margin pressures were going to hit.
So it's my sense that this might be kind of a book-and-ship order kind of thing just some of the orders that are coming in right now that you still expect to translate to the P&amp;L later this year are the ones that are coming in at -- with some of the pricing pressure or maybe the less rich feature set.
Yes.
I -- our ouija board has been pretty good for 13 years on this stuff but I will say that forecasting is a complex task around here that takes a lot of effort.
Book-and-ship clearly is one aspect of what has happened to us as in the second quarter as we look at our book-and-ships certainly that has an effect.
Our mix by territory matters the pricing and competitive behavior the delivery timing.
Every time we go through backlog I can tell you when we go through backlog at the beginning of a quarter and then look at what actually shipped in that quarter 90 days later it's often quite different than what we expected.
Product cost and the cost of accessories depending upon where they came from and we use a lot of expensive materials to build these machines so that can have an effect: the locally supplied vendor parts that we have to get and those parts can vary by where we are.
And then there's turnkey activity in some of these deals and then there's deal packages.
There's what all they want as part of the deal and then to top it all off there's currency effects.
So when you roll all of these together I would say that our models have worked well for us but it is clear that short-term effects going forward are having a stronger effect than we've seen them have before.
And so we're going to do our very best to analyze things and keep you up to date on that.
But the nice thing now is we're halfway through this year and at least for this year the backlog picture is clarifying and that makes us feel better about our forecast for this year although there's still some variation which we've shown you in the way we've constructed our guidance and -- but we're going to have to get into October before we really know what next year looks like.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Let me ask one follow-up there and then I have one modeling question for Elisha.
But you've been a staunch advocate I think over the last few years that you're just not going to sell on price that you're going to sell on features and if others want to sell on price so be it.
But it sounds like that has changed a little bit.
What in your mind has -- I'm assuming some of these discounts filter all the way up to your level.
Where -- what has changed in your mind to sign off on some of these discounts? Well I think what happens is -- and I will admit that I try not to keep every piece of paper in the company from coming to my office.
But I would say that if you're talking to a customer who has $2 million and he wants to buy $2.5 million worth of stuff he's not going to get everything he wants.
But -- and then competitors are going to come in and so there's going to be -- it's going to be a difficult conversation.
And so that's when deals get complicated.
It's -- so I would say a combination of budget limitations and just competitive pressures especially in these countries where all of us want to take higher share.
At least now we're down to 2 companies or 2.5 companies that want higher share and so we're going to try and get that any way we can.
But you're right: I am going to push for higher prices.
Mr.
Wilson is going to higher -- push for higher prices.
Ms.
Finney is going to push for higher prices.
And we have ways to do that that I probably shouldn't go into too much more detail on in this call.
Research Division</strong> And then Elisha just the modeling question.
So it looks like you're trimming the guidance range by maybe $0.15 or $0.16 or so and obviously $0.02 of that was the restructuring this quarter.
I think you explained well that $0.01 or $0.02 may be the lower oncology revenue is offset by the higher proton revenues.
I think Tim made a comment that the Siemens relationship is maybe $0.02 or so.
The last couple of buckets I just can't fill in is the litigation side.
Litigation is about $0.02.
Research Division</strong> Litigation is about $0.02.
Is there -- in that litigation -- I'm assuming that's the UPMC.
Is there any presumed royalties on RPM or Trilogy clinic sales or anything that you're now starting to kind of assume in there? No.
We're assuming we're going to fight this.
We're assuming ultimate victory in it.
And I want to make it clear: it's the University of Pittsburgh not UPMC.
We're not in a battle with UPMC.
They're a customer.
The University of Pittsburgh is the university.
Research Division</strong> Right yes.
No that's fair.
So that's $0.08 there and so the rest of the bucket is just kind of this lower margin and pricing issue.
Yes.
Thank you for -- we need to end the call at this point because we've run overtime.
So thank you for participating.
A replay of the call can be heard on the Varian investor website at www.varian.com/investor where it will be archived for a year.
To hear a telephone replay please call 1 (888) 286-8010 from inside the U.S.
or 1-617-801-6888 from outside the U.S.
and enter confirmation code 10075622.
The telephone replay will be available through 5 p.m.
this Friday April 27.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2012 Varian Medical Systems Incorporated Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Ann and I will be your coordinator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Mr.
Spencer Sias Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you.
Hi folks just move your slide to Varian Medical Systems and I apologize for the lateness of getting this call started.
We had trouble with our conference operator.
But welcome though to the Varian Medical Systems Conference Call for the Third Quarter of Fiscal Year 2012.
Participating in this call are Tim Guertin President and CEO; Elisha Finney CFO; Dow Wilson Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Tai Chen our Corporate Controller.
Tim and Elisha will summarize our results and we'll take your questions following the presentation.
To simplify our discussion unless otherwise stated all references to the quarter or year are fiscal quarters and fiscal years the quarterly comparisons are for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 versus the third quarter of fiscal 2011.
Please be advised that this presentation and discussion contains forward-looking statements.
Our use of words and phrases such as outlook could should believe think appear opportunity can expect potential and similar expressions are intended to identify those statements which represent our current judgment on future performance or other future matters.
While we believe them to be reasonable based on information currently available to us these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of the important risks relating to our business are described in our third quarter earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements in this presentation and discussion because of new information future events or otherwise.
And now here's Tim.
Good afternoon and welcome.
And today we're reporting results for the third quarter of 2012 with healthy growth in revenue margins and earnings.
Net orders were up slightly in constant currency but even with the -- excuse me net orders were up slightly in constant currency but even with the year-ago period on a dollar basis.
To summarize the third quarter results compared to the year-ago quarter company revenues rose to $705 million up 9% in dollars and 11% in constant currency.
Our gross and operating margins improved even in the face of a weakened euro and net earnings increased 16% to $0.96 per diluted share.
Net orders were up in Oncology Systems and were down in our X-ray Products and Security businesses.
Our quarter ending backlog rose 16% to more than $2.6 billion with Oncology backlog up 9%.
Let me give you more detail about our Oncology Systems Business first.
Third quarter revenues for this business were $546 million up 7% from the year-ago quarter.
The gross margin was 44% up nearly 40 basis points from the year ago quarter and up 2 percentage points from the second quarter.
We achieved this improvement while continuing to experience a significant shift to International business which accounted for 57% of total oncology revenues.
Oncology net orders totaled $562 million up 2% in dollars and 4% in constant currency.
Reported net orders were up 4% in North America but down 1% internationally with currency-driven declines in EMEA that offset double-digit growth in Asia.
Oncology orders were split 46% in North America and 54% internationally.
Our flagship TrueBeam system continues to be ordered and deployed in healthy rates.
Since the product launch we have received 550 orders and some 270 installations are complete or in progress.
TrueBeam comprise about 50% of total high-energy machine orders in the quarter.
During the quarter we received several multi-Linac orders including 6 TrueBeams at 2 centers in New York.
We also received our first 2 orders as part of a program in the U.K.
to stimulate replacement of machines in public hospitals.
We were selected to supply a minimum of 10 TrueBeam machines that hospitals can acquire through the National Health Service between April 2012 and March 2013.
The first 2 of these have been ordered for our new cancer center in Hereford and to replace a competitor's machine at Clatterbridge near Liverpool.
Service orders and revenues which represent a long-term annuity for oncology grew at a faster rate than the overall oncology business.
Year-to-date services achieved double-digit growth and is nearly 35% of Oncology Systems revenues.
Shortly after the quarter ended CMS announced its initial proposals for 2013 reimbursement rates in the U.S.
This calls for slight increases in hospital rates but painful and inappropriate cuts for freestanding clinics.
As a consequence we are working with clinic operators in the industry to oppose these cuts in order to help ensure continued access to cancer care for patients.
Freestanding clinics in the U.S.
represent about 10% of Varian's global oncology business.
With ongoing pressure on reimbursement rates it's clear to us that the market will place a greater and greater premium on fast cost-efficient delivery of both radio therapy and radiosurgery without compromising treatment quality.
This is a strength for Varian because we offer greater performance and value than any of our competitors.
We continue to see promising developments in clinical studies related to the efficacy of modern radiotherapy.
I'm pleased to announce today that Varian has become a supporter of a multi- institution randomized Phase III study comparing surgery and radiosurgery for patients with early-stage high-risk operable non-small cell lung cancer.
The study will accrue 420 patients across the U.S.
over 5 years and evaluate survival at 3 years.
It is being conducted by the Alliance for Clinical Trials in Oncology and National Cancer Institute sponsored the cooperative research group.
We believe this study is the logical next step towards expanding the use of radiosurgery for the treatment of lung cancer following numerous studies that showed promising results for the treatment of inoperable lung cancer.
As we reported in our press release on May 1 doctors at VU Medical Center in Amsterdam published a data showing that radiosurgery can be a viable option for treating potentially operable cases of early-stage lung cancer with outcomes that compare favorably to surgery.
We are excited about the results of this study and recommend that you read it in the May issue of the International Journal of Radiation Oncology Biology and Physics to fully appreciate the work that is being done in this field.
Studies such as these mark the progress that is being made in the fight to control cancer with radiotherapy and radiosurgery and enhance efficiency of these treatment methods.
Our X-ray Products business continued to experience challenging conditions in the third quarter but managed to deliver record margins.
Net orders were $120 million down 1% from the year-ago period and revenues rose 5% to $127 million.
Sluggish capital spending on imaging systems around the globe appeared to dampen demand for our components in the quarter.
However we believe our X-ray Products business is doing better than the overall diagnostic imaging industry and that we are growing share.
The long-term growth on our X-ray Products business has been driven by our ability to introduce new tubes and panels that enable us to serve more customers and address new market segments.
We're currently in the process of introducing multiple new products which we believe will help us to sustain growth.
Looking forward for example we are starting to see some new panel business from Siemens for systems that it expressed to sell into emerging markets.
Results in our Other category including the Varian Particle Therapy business and our Security and Inspections Product business were mixed.
As you know results with these businesses can vary substantially from quarter-to-quarter based on the timing of large orders and deliveries.
Combined net orders were $7 million down $10 million from the year-ago quarter.
Orders for Security were down sharply revenues rose about 70% to $26 million in the quarter.
Deployment of security systems by governments around the world is continuing and our customers have received orders for systems that incorporate our components.
So we can expect to see more orders in this business in a relatively near future.
In our Particle Therapy business we continue to work on the installation of the new system in Scripps in San Diego and several other customers are in the process of financing and launching their projects.
Subsequent to the end of the quarter we signed an $84 million contract for a new 4-room proton installation at MR University and we will book this order in the backlog when this project is financed.
This is a vote of confidence in the future of proton therapy that comes in spite of CMS proposals to cut reimbursement rates for hospital-based Proton Therapy Centers in 2013.
The proposed hospital cuts have no direct effect on current Varian projects such as Scripps Maryland or Emory.
These clinics will operate as freestanding centers and negotiate reimbursement rates with their local Medicare providers.
I should add CMS has indicated it is open to modifying its proton reimbursement proposal for hospitals because it has acknowledged that the suggested rates are based on very limited data from only 3 hospitals.
And now let me introduce Elisha Finney to cover the financials.
Thanks Tim and hello everyone.
While Tim has already covered net orders I want to give you a little more detail on the constant currency growth rates.
In comparing quarter-over-quarter exchange rate the U.S.
dollar strengthened significantly against European currencies and weakened slightly against the yen.
As you know in the third quarter the euro weakened by about 10% from the year-ago period.
Oncology grew net orders by 2% in dollars or 4% in constant currency.
Oncology's European net orders were down 4% in dollars but up 5% in constant currency.
And Asian orders were up 12% in dollars and up 11% in constant currency.
Third quarter revenues increased 9% to $705 million and 11% in constant currency.
Oncology Systems posted a 7% increase with strong growth in international sales.
X-ray Products posted a gain of 5% and our Other category doubled with strong growth in the SIP business and with $6 million of proton revenue.
Even with the negative quarter-over-quarter currency impact the gross margin for the company increased by 0.5 points to 43.6%.
Oncology Systems gross margin increased by 38 basis points to 34.3% due primarily to strong growth in service and improved installations warranty and factory cost.
X-ray Products gross margin had a new record climbing 4 points to 45.3% due to favorable product mix as well as improve quality and product costs.
The gross margin for the Other business and the total company was negatively impacted by revenue recognized on the Scripps contract which reduced the company's third quarter gross margin by about 35 basis points.
Third quarter SG&amp;A expenses were $105 million or 15% of revenues and R&amp;D expenses were $49 million or 7% of revenues both up slightly as a percentage of revenue from the year-ago quarter.
Moving on the income statement third quarter operating earnings totaled $154 million up 9% to 22% of revenues.
Depreciation and amortization totaled $15 million for the quarter.
The effective tax rate was 29.3% for the quarter down about 0.5 points from the year-ago quarter due largely to a geographic shift in earnings towards lower tax jurisdictions.
For fiscal year 2012 we now estimate that the tax rate will be about 28%.
Fully diluted shares outstanding decreased significantly from the year-ago quarter to $113 million due largely to our ongoing share repurchase program.
We repurchased 1.5 million shares in the quarter.
Diluted earnings per share rose 16% to $0.96.
Turning to the balance sheet we ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $633 million debt of $175 million and stockholders equity of $1.5 billion.
DSO improved by one day from the year-ago quarter to 80 days.
Third quarter cash flow from operations was $143 million more than net earnings due to noncash items and improvements in working capital.
Primary uses of cash included $97 million for stock repurchases.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately 4 million shares remaining under the current repurchase authorization.
Now back to Tim for the outlook.
Thanks Elisha.
With tremendous movements in currency exchange rates particularly the substantial weakening of the euro we're adjusting our outlook for fiscal 2012.
Compared with fiscal 2011 totals we now believe that for fiscal year 2012 revenues could increase by about 8% and net earnings per diluted share from continuing operations could grow by 8% to 9%.
Thank you for your attention and we're now ready for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Steve Beuchaw with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> On freestanding centers I just want to focus there to help everyone.
You mentioned the impact.
If we could take it back to 2009 there was a fair amount of understanding about negative commentary from ASTRO on the potential impact of these cuts which were on the order of what we saw in the proposal for this year for freestanding centers.
And there was one survey that suggested quite a few centers would close or potentially restrict treatments for non-CMS patients.
So I was wondering in your dialogue so far with ASTRO and potentially ASRO so far can you characterize what you're hearing in terms of the message to CMS that they want to deliver about the potential impact of these cuts in an effort to try and turn the tide there? Clearly ASTRO has been speaking with its members.
And nearly 50% of freestanding clinics have indicated that they would either need to shut down or consolidate in some way or restrict Medicare patients.
So this is a draconian cut and furthermore it's in error.
The formula that was used they adjusted the hours that they had assigned the radiation therapy but they did not open up the formula.
There were a variety of other errors in the formula itself and when you use correct assumptions for the expenses associated with equipment and time and vault expenses and a variety of other things you wind up with reimbursement rates similar to what they are today.
So for all of those reasons we think that when that evidence is presented to CMS which of course will happen by ASTRO and by Association of Freestanding Clinics and by Varian and by others I think that they'll see that there's enough information that they should rectify this change that it was a mistake to do this.
It's a little different than that we saw in 2009 because in 2009 they made assumptions based upon trigger radiation oncology like we were in imaging business.
And so CMS reversed that because MedPAC encouraged them to do so.
In this case we think we have to open up formulas and reacquaint them with how radiation therapy mathematics actually works in the clinic and change a variety of their assumptions.
If they don't do that then yes the impact is rather severe and cancer patients will suffer.
So we expect that a lot of politicians will get involved and will vent their frustration on this kind of behavior on the part of ASTRO because voters will be affected.
Research Division</strong> Tim that's really helpful.
One on gross margins in oncology Elisha.
On the last call you gave us a sense that you could maintain gross margins in oncology at fiscal '12 level going forward and with the cost-cutting programs that we talked about.
It looks like in the fourth quarter gross margin in oncology might be a little wider than the third quarter implied by the outlook are you still in the view that this fiscal '12 level and maybe 44 is a good level to shoot for for a sustainable gross margin level for oncology? Yes I think 43 to 44 Steve is a pretty good level.
I need to put the caveat in there that we are just seeing unprecedented swings in currency which are having a major impact of 50 basis points or so.
But when I look at the mix of business the profiting backlog the geographic mix the product mix from where I sit today I think that 43 to 44 should be sustainable as we hopefully continue to get some cost reductions going forward.
But again currency geography can change that pretty significantly in any given quarter compared to another.
Research Division</strong> And then just one housekeeping question and then I'll drop.
MedTek tax for next year for the fiscal year somewhere from $10 million to $12 million range would that be about right? Well if I annualized that and again we're still trying to understand all of the rules in terms of deferred revenue and how installation warranty and freight and all of those things are going to be treated.
But if I just do a very very rough calculation taking U.S.
sales of oncology plus aftermarket sales of X-Ray and excluding service and applying the 2.3% it comes to about an annualized pretax number of $20 million.
And then of course we were taxed after that.
And our next question comes from the line of Dalton Chandler with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up in the oncology orders.
I think you said overall it was up 4% in constant currency.
Press release says North America was up 4%.
You also gave us -- Europe up 5% in constant currency Asia up 11% in constant currency.
So what's the number I'm missing that gets the average of all that down to 4%? Yes it's the rest of the world was down in double-digits in constant currency about 15% in dollars and that would include primarily Latin America.
LLC Research Division</strong> You said it was about 15% in constant currency? Yes it's a small part of our business.
It ranges from about 5% to 7% of the total Oncology business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just to follow up on that given where the global economy seems to be today do you think you for the foreseeable future this sort of the mid-single-digit order rate is where we are or do you think there's a potential rebound sooner? Well yes you're asking me the $64 million question.
Clearly the impact on capital markets was slower to hit us than it was some other companies.
And about the situation with the euro and the situation with Southern Europe and the confusion in the United States over reimbursement rates in Medicare has started to affect capital equipment and us along with it.
And so if we go forward and the euro stays at 120 or north of that I think we can find ways to accommodate it.
So we'll have to look at that.
The good news is I think it is possible to make this business.
I've been saying that my target was to make this a $4 billion business over 3 years.
I'm not sure I can do it in 3 years but I'm pretty sure we could still make it the $4 billion company.
China Southeast Asia Japan all still are functioning very well.
We were going to have to be cautious because of currency volatility in North America and Europe especially Southern Europe behavior.
The global economy is going to make it a challenge for financing in those locations.
And their substantial political uncertainty as well.
But we're confident in our technology and our market position.
Do I think we can do better? You bet.
So we are going to compete aggressively for business.
We're going to introduce some new products.
We're enhancing our team especially in Asia.
I think that in this partnership is going to help us.
We're going to use price judiciously as a weapon and we're increasing our presence in a lot of countries.
We're going to do what we can to protect reimbursement or we have to do more clinical research.
I think we have over ideal ways that we can do this.
I don't want to specifically tell you how I think 2013 is going to work out because I want the couple of months to see what the euro does and to see what North America reimbursement trends are and to see whether we can get that reimbursement situation turned around.
But hopefully by November I'll have a much better picture of this.
But the list of concerns that you have is the same list of concerns that I have and so all we can do is fight back and we're going to fight back in all the ways that I mentioned.
And our Next question comes from the line of Jason Wittes with Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify on the guidance.
That's FX but it also sounds like there's a little bit of concern about the U.S.
market and especially that 10% of freestanding clinics.
I just want to make sure we -- I also understand.
Jason let me kind of give you the guidance block if you will from the last quarter when we gave guidance for the fiscal year versus the current guidance for the fiscal year.
And the FX impact was significant to say the least.
When we gave guidance last quarter the euro was at about 134.
As of yesterday it hit about 120.
So 10% 12% decline in just the last 3 months.
So pretty significant.
What that meant to our top line is we lost about $20 million just due to the euro exchange rates and the other $20 million or so is from the fact that we have first thought we would get the Maryland or the Saudi revenue for the proton center both in Q4.
I just am not certain that the financing for Maryland is going to be all of the I's dotted the T's crossed and the contracts signed.
And so to be conservative took it out.
It really has no impact on EPS because as you know the first couple of proton deals are going to be at very very low margins.
So the impact from last guidance to this guidance due to FX alone is $0.05 to $0.06.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that $0.05 to $0.06 is specifically FX related.
And then on the top line you also have the move out of Saudi and Maryland just to characterize.
Okay.
So I guess it sounds like there's pretty much -- and I don't think this is a big surprise no leverage on the bottom line to be expected this quarter except maybe from share buyback -- excuse me for the year? For the year no.
In fact if you include the proton revenue for the year the RoS when you pencil this out it's going to be around 21%.
It was 22.7% in the year-ago period.
The impact -- you also you have to back out proton revenue in the fourth quarter of last year.
You remember we started the Scripps project and there was a be catch-up of $33 million.
So if I just flip out protons year-over-year it's more like a 1.5 decline in the EBIT margin.
And again a lot of that is currency-driven.
Okay.
And I'll just add that we've mentioned in the past that we have significant natural hedging and we do.
But the currency the amount of business that we're doing in Europe in terms of sales combined with the substantial size of the currency swing is just greater than our natural hedge.
Yes Q4 is the biggest impact because we have more revenue in Q4 than any other quarter.
And of course the expenses are a little more linear throughout the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to backtrack on the reimbursement rates it sounds like you feel there's a pretty strong case here to be made on reversing those trends which in terms of at least what they said about their freestanding clinics.
I guess in the interim though I think have you already seen some holdouts? One have you already seen some holdouts in terms of order rates from the freestanding clinics? But B as a backdrop have they actually been that strong this year anyway and was there much incorporated to your guidance to begin with? It's about 20% of North American business freestanding this year and that includes the third quarter.
I don't think -- obviously this could affect the behavior of freestanding clinics in the fourth quarter.
Some of them may adopt a wait and see.
We'll have to do it.
It's not -- I do think that's necessarily a big swing factor for us in the fourth quarter but will be a problem in 2013 if it doesn't get turned around.
So we have logical and meritorious arguments.
To the extent that logical and meritorious arguments will affect the U.S.
government agency I think we will win.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just on the same ...
Jason this is Spence.
Listen in the interest of fairness to the other analysts who are covering here we'll try to circle around back to you if we can [indiscernible].
And our next question comes from the line of Jeremy Feffer with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> Tim a couple of quarters ago you mentioned that as you look at U.S.
oncology you're seeing that market evolving more as a replacement market since you're at pretty high level penetration.
So given some of the I guess CapEx trends that we've seen are you seeing any extension or delays in hospitals purchasing new equipment? We have definitely seen some hospitals in -- make some delays.
But hospital business seems to be growing in the U.S.
and they just got good news they just got told that their reimbursement is going up.
So I would expect hospitals to feel better about the situation right now and act accordingly.
Have we seen some hospitals delay decisions? Yes we have and I'm hoping that those decision slide no further than the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just very quickly on x-ray.
Where specifically are you seeing most of the weakness or is it pretty global? In X-ray we're talking about what our customers are seeing.
And what they're seeing is a global capital equipment big systems scanners and X-ray product X-ray systems and all these kinds of things.
The things we sell tubes and panels for there's just been a global capital slowdown in this area.
So in the first part of the year we saw an inventory adjustment.
That's sort of ended.
Now what we're just seeing is a slowing a general slowing of business that's affected our business.
At the same time we think our share is growing in panels and X-ray tubes.
We think that we're seeing opportunities that we haven't seen before and we're seeing some customers come to us that we haven't had a chance to talk to before.
I mentioned Siemens for example as an opportunity that's already starting to have some movement.
So for all of those reasons I think we're strengthening our market position.
But in this case the stronger wind was created by kind of a global slowdown in capital equipment Our next question comes from the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping team Tim if you could comment a little bit and how you're thinking about capital deployment and the context of what is more difficult operating environment.
Your reference obviously the global CapEx slowdown as well as some broad-based macroeconomic uncertainty.
Obviously there was accelerated share repurchase programs that you did last year maybe how you're thinking about cash at this point and can you just remind us what your priorities are? Sure.
Well and David you know we have spent -- in fact we spent more than the cash generated in the U.S.
over the last year and share repurchase and returning capital to shareholders.
So we're in the enviable position.
We have strong cash flow.
We have a very conservative balance sheet.
And we spent a lot of time thinking about what's the best way to return that cash to shareholders whether it's a share repurchase acquisition and we can be opportunistic on repurchases based on the stock price.
But of course we're still going to be prudent relative to what's going on in the worldwide economy and what our cash position is and what our debt levels are.
So no this is not giving any guidance or indication as to what our plans are but I think you should anticipate that we will continue to have a share repurchase program that we have been buying somewhere between 1 million and 1.5 million shares per quarter on average for the last several quarters.
And obviously it increases our return on equity significantly by having lower cash assets and it's something that we'll continue to do.
We have a nice line of credit in the U.S.
to hold us up.
Of course a lot of our cash is internationally and that's why we made that move.
And I'll just speak to the acquisition point.
In my view we're having a recession in the U.S.
And if let's say austerity wins out over stimulus in this situation then we can expect this to go on for a while.
I think that is going to create opportunities for us in the acquisition arena if not in the early part of 2013 but certainly by the latter part of 2013.
I think we will see more acquisition opportunities.
When you combine that to the fact that in that -- for some companies this 2.25% tax burden will be lethal I think that creates opportunities as well.
So Elisha spoke to the buyback thing but I'll just speak to the acquisition things and say I think opportunities will arrive in 2013 and then our cash position puts us in a position to do both buybacks and some kind of prudent acquisitions where they fit with our business.
And I just want to finalize by saying just as a reminder given that we are borrowing at about a 1% aftertax rate it is significantly accretive to the spending to even be borrowing at this point and spending all of the cash generated in the U.S.
to do the buybacks.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
And then Tim maybe a follow up for you and your comments about using price judiciously.
I guess what I wanted to extrapolate is has this market sort of gone from an oligopoly to a duopoly given Siemens' retrenchment here.
Could you maybe speak to your view on why price competition would be intensifying here? Is that more a function of geographic mix in the market to which you're selling and those will comprise bigger percentage of the growth rate or is there something that's happening in the competitive set that's driving prices lower? Yes.
I think mix geographic mix will make a difference because in Asia and Latin America there may be -- in the capital pressures exist around the world.
And so people may want to have a business that the competition may be especially fierce and maybe some large tenders for which the competition is exceedingly fierce.
So we may see that kind of activity.
At the same time price -- the other effect on price is just simply that I think our major competitor will be trying to get share.
And we're going to be trying to get share at the same time.
Siemens has exited the market that left a hole.
It's not a huge hole but it's a hole and we're all going to try to fill it and that is going to grade especially in developing markets were Siemens was strong.
That's going to create the kind of fierce competition.
And I think our competitor has made some predictions about the behavior of markets in 2013 and currency helps them in this current situation.
And I think they will try to take advantage of that to strengthen their business.
We have of course our traditional advantages.
Our machines are very fast.
We have the highest quality of machines.
I think we offer superior value proposition to our customers and we'll take advantage of all of those.
But I just -- when you have markets that are not growing as fast as they did you get -- and you have a small number of competitors they're going to fight and that's what we're going to see here.
And our next question comes from the line of Amit Bhalla with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Tim you generally in your prepared comments you go into a lot more detail about what's actually happening in the regions for the Oncology business.
So I was hoping you could actually just talk through North America and rest of world specifically with regards to Linac volume price and market share in the past quarter and how those may have been the same or changed given the growth rates you just talked about in the order book? So you're telling me -- you want to understand North America how pricing volume and everything change in North America? Research Division</strong> And share.
And share yes.
Okay.
well obviously since this conversation is a direct channel to my competitors I'm loathe to discuss volumes except to the extent that we already have by revealing the numbers.
I will -- on share I will tell you that we study electors' releases as I imagine that you do.
As a principal competitor it's very hard to tell sometimes because we have to extract out their acquisitions.
We have to extract out their service business which is -- require some estimation to do that.
We're confident that our market share is about the same as it was a year ago excluding the new Proton acquisition for them.
We think our strategy to maintain share or gross share is going to work under these circumstances.
But if you ask me to give you Linac numbers this year versus last year and volume and price and all that sort of stuff I'd rather not get into that level of detail because at this point as you mentioned -- as was mentioned earlier were down at the competitors and I just have to be more careful about what I say than I have in the past.
Research Division</strong> Would you be willing to just at least say if Linac volume grew or wad decline or stable could you at least give a qualitative like that? And that's something you've done in the past.
It fluctuates a lot from quarter-to-quarter.
So let me think about that question.
I don't think I'm willing to answer that at this moment.
Let me just add Amit that service is the biggest growth driver in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just sort of like a follow up.
You touched upon like kind of what happened in 2009 after the reimbursement rates came out and yes there was a little bit of market stagnation.
Can you at least just tell us how July has played out? And if you're seeing any benefit from Siemens overseas? We've seen the Siemens effect.
They've helped us on some deals.
We're thrilled to have them as a partner in their very helpful.
But I think there's some situations where we're going to get business that we would not have been able to get business before.
So I can't speak to the Siemens thing.
I would prefer not to talk about July now.
I think I'll make all of that clear when I make my fourth quarter remarks.
But I mean it's obviously we're all going to be watching the way freestanding clinics behave in the next 3 months and I'll get back to you with that when I have the discussions.
And what I'm hoping for is what I've said which is we can turn this reimbursement situation around then 2013 looks nicer.
And our next question comes from the line of Jeff Johnson with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Tim I want to start with you.
Just I guess Elisha gave the number that America was down from 15% constant currency on orders in oncology in the quarter.
What's going on there? Is it top comps? Is the market slow share loss? Just how do you quantify that? There's some -- no it has to do with some large tenders that are happening in those territories and those tenders just did not happen this quarter.
They are happening in the future.
We might have originally expected they happen this quarter but are happening later.
We're going to have to look at those tenders when they come out and decide how we're going to respond to them.
But -- so this is just a lack of business and it has to do with timing.
It's not a lack of interest it's not a loss of share it's just share it's just timing.
Research Division</strong> So outside of Brazil your orders in Australia and some of those other markets and maybe you didn't mention doing okay or ...
Well it's such a small market.
I believe was down in the quarter but again just doesn't mean anything in one given quarter.
But you are correct we include Australia and the rest of the world numbers.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then Elisha did I hear you were right on guidance so it sounds like in the revenue change that you're making the guidance really the only 2 things their FX and proton there's no operational change outside of proton implied in your revenue guidance? Nothing significant.
I mean obviously we would have like to have made of that up in Q4 but where the currency is and even the order rate in Q3 particularly for X-ray which is a short cycle business.
Even though it's going to be tougher to do.
But $20 million for proton and $20 million for FX is 95% 97% of the impact.
Research Division</strong> And then last question for me.
I'm jumping between call here so I don't think I'm repeating here.
But on the manufacturing cost side I know you guys have been making some efforts there to take cost out of the process both manufacturing and I guess more assembly than anything.
Some of those efforts I think were focused on sourcing from alternate suppliers or maybe even do was suppliers things like that but you need to be at regulatory approval there.
If you do change out a part or something I mean are there any efforts that are close to being done at this point? How do think that plays out over the coming quarters? We're going -- we'll never be done.
This is something we are just going to chip away at dollar by dollar by dollar from now until the end of time Jeff and we did made good progress in the quarter.
It came a lot from installation.
You'll see that we did exceed the state estimates.
Some of that was literally getting some acceptance revenue in sooner than we had anticipated and I think that was the result of getting these installs improved.
We have improvements in warranty we had improvements in purchasing costs in doing some bulk purchasing in factory efficiency it was just a little bit of gross across the board but we're not going to take our eye off the ball on this sort of something that we'll just keep at.
Research Division</strong> Still feel comfortable with taking that 15 000 to 20 out for Linac kind of range? That's what we're shooting for.
And our next question comes from the line of Anthony Petrone with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One reimbursement and then one on oncology one on guidance.
For reimbursement Tim I know that the stats that have been thrown out there with the IMRT cuts that proposed.
You mentioned 50% of the freestanding clinics can potentially go out of business.
In your mind what is the threshold of where the cut would have to settle so that won't be the case? And if it is the case and we're sort of that threshold that's too high do you see more rapid consolidation of freestanding clinics into hospitals? Under no circumstances should freestanding clinic reimbursement be below hospital reimbursement and that's what happened.
And I think that the idea was that hospitals have all of this overhead and everything.
But the fact is that freestanding clinics have a lot of overhead.
For example in staffing issue usually hospitals have a lot more clinics at a particular location.
A freestanding clinic may only have one.
So they have extra headcount associated with that.
They may have resources that are not shared and the way they are with hospitals.
And they may not have the loading that a hospital does because a hospital gets referred from its own institution.
So they may have fewer patients per day.
So for all of these reasons I believe freestanding reimbursement should be higher than it is for a hospital and under no circumstances should it be lower than what a hospital gets.
So if you asked me the question where should it settle I think it should settle above where hospitals are but the amount above we're going to have to do mathematically.
And we're going to make our recommendations -- we and other people are going to go back to CMS and were going to tell them.
When we do the math it comes out like this and see what they have to say.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
That's helpful.
And then just in terms of consolidation there do you think some clinics will preemptively look to the consolidator consumed by hospital or is this still going to be wait and see until November? Well the rules are kind of complicated.
If you're a freestanding clinic and you get bought by a hospital but you're not in the physical -- you're not at the physical location of the hospital then you're still a freestanding clinic.
So -- but on the other hand hospitals might be able to consolidate planning services and do things like that to try and reduce cost.
So -- and if some freestandings close then patients will either not be treated which is of course the worst fear or they're going to have to make trips into hospitals to be treated.
That will increase the workload of the hospitals and the hospitals will have to respond by doing something about it.
Will they buy used equipment or will they buy new equipment? I really don't know.
As you get into this imponderable territory if you have a train wreck what will happen in response of the train wreck? But honestly I just can't bring myself to believe that CMS must stick to this strategy when they understand just how erroneous the math was.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on oncology quick ones here.
My understanding is that all the information management system you have is that already fully communicating with the Siemens Linac install base and can you just provide an update on the approval process for UNIQUE in China? We can communicate good some Siemens equipment.
Other than Siemens equipment we cannot.
That is actually one of the things that we're trying to fix with this arrangement with Siemens their providing us with information that we did not have before and we are going to talk at ASTRO.
If you come to ASTRO we'll be able to give you better timing on this and share show you what we've got in accomplishment.
Obviously that was one of the things we hope to accomplish in our relationship with Siemens was to do that.
So a bit more formal announcements about what we're able to do there.
All we're telling customers is that we went from a situation in which we did not have the cooperation of Siemens in terms of talking to their equipment to a situation in which we do have the cooperation of Siemens to talking to their equipment and we targeted ASTRO as the time that we would give specific details on that.
And our next question comes from the line of Junaid Husain with Dougherty &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Elisha on the guidance front just so this is clear in my head.
I know it's hard to figure out the directionality of currency but does the new guns reflect currency rates where they are today or the does it reflect where you think currency could go by the end of fiscal year? No no.
I'm not in the business of predicting it Junaid.
So last quarter again it was about $1.34 when we gave the guidance.
I mean -- we put a range so that I could tolerate a couple of percentage points directional change in either way.
But it was just 10% or 12%.
We certainly can give guidance expecting that kind of a range.
So it's really based on about where we are today at the 120 121 level that we're looking forward into Q4.
Research Division</strong> And then Tim on the proton side with the proposed lower reimbursement rates for protons what are conversations been like with the centers that have been contemplating making an investment in proton technology and then what you said has been tougher for them to get financing you mentioned Maryland.
Remember Maryland Emory all of these are freestanding clinics.
They negotiate their rates with the local Medicare -- they're considered local and they get a rate assigned to them as a freestanding clinic a local and they negotiate those rates.
For hospitals the CMS and that with the CMS proposal is about hospitals.
They use 3 institutions: Loma Linda and Massachusetts General and quite probably Penn.
And that's 3 institutions Loma Linda and Mass General had their capital equipment was bought many many years ago and is substantially depreciated.
So under those circumstances the numbers are kind of meaningless.
The install base is too low to get the math right.
On -- we just got a new contract with Emory that I mentioned they were aware of the new rates when they signed that contract.
So I think that's an example of the kind of thinking that people are doing there.
So I still believe that for a lot of these institutions based -- frankly it just hasn't come up.
I mean obviously it comes up in the context of discussing regular radiation oncology but we're not really seeing people stop discussing protons because of this announcement about hospital-based reimbursement.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then Tim last question for you.
I think you mentioned that Latin America has been a tad weak.
And you mentioned or you alluded to some government tenders.
I believe that government tender is Brazil and is there anything you can tell us about what's going on with this tender? There is a significant tender coming up in Brazil.
I expect it to come out in the fourth quarter and we'll take a look at it at that time.
I can't really speculate until I see it what the response will be.
Obviously it's going to be us versus Elekta.
Elekta will be anxious to get it.
This is going to be one of those battles that I mentioned earlier in answering questions.
Research Division</strong> And how many linear accelerators? This is Spencer.
I just want to get everybody in.
The answer is something like 80 accelerators but we want the next person to have a chance to ask a question.
And our next question comes from the line of Tycho Peterson with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Just first question on numbers for Elisha.
So if we look at this quarter you'd be by $0.02 you're lowering guidance depending on where consensus comes out by about $0.10 in the fourth quarter.
So looks like there's about $0.12 net there.
You said currency about $0.06 of that.
I'm just trying to reconcile what the rest of that would come from? No.
As I mentioned I mean we just it was timing it was a good news that we got some revenue and profits sooner than we had expected which came into Q3 and then there was just timing of expenses which is always the case.
So for the year the midpoint is coming down by the $0.06 and that is the currency impact that we talked about.
Research Division</strong> And then Tim on your strategy for developing markets I mean you talked about using price judiciously as a weapon.
I mean obviously cutting price in emerging markets to be gain share can be somewhat dangerous.
Can you comment a little bit more about where you see TrueBeam going with those customers when UNIQUE starts to have an impact.
I'm just -- I mean the concern here is that you're going to start cutting very quickly on price and not be able to recover? So I'll begin by reminding everyone that there are a lot of things we're going to do before we resort to price.
We want to have superior products.
We want to have the best people.
We're going to add staffing in locations.
We are so that we have greater presence we're going to use the Siemens partnership.
And so there's a variety of things that were going to do.
All I was indicating there is that I expect the -- in a lot of situations maybe where it used to be Varian in versus Siemens.
Now it's always going to be Varian versus Elekta and I expect some of those battles to be difficult.
Some customers put price high on their list of considerations.
The people put pricing low on their list of considerations.
Where pricing is not number one on the consideration I think we have a good chance to be able to hold price or maybe get superior pricing.
So far oncology order pricing is holding and -- but I'm just saying we're going to have to be in this market under these conditions I think all of the players are going to be very aggressive about share.
We're going to be aggressive about share.
But you should not -- when I hear that when I say that you should not necessarily read into that the price is the first weapon were going to use.
And I'll just add to that that our service business has grown in low-double-digits year-to-date so every socket we capture is very important to on a go-forward basis.
I'm walking in that annuity.
Research Division</strong> And then last one on the position fee schedule I guess 2 things: One as we think about this current quarter in your own assumptions are you assuming a similar dynamic that we saw in 2009 in terms of orders basically freezing on the freestanding side? And then second do we assume that going after treatment times in freestanding could maybe lead to going after treatment times on a hospital side? Obviously they didn't do that this time around.
Well the hospital formula is quite different than the freestanding formula and this is one of the points that we made is that they're calculated on different basis.
And so I wouldn't necessarily assume that a formula that was used for freestanding clinics would result in the same changes for a hospital base.
In terms of -- what was the first part of your question again? Research Division</strong> Are you assuming a repeat of the 12 '09 for this current quarter in terms of the freestanding market essentially freezing here until we have resolution over the physician fee schedule? I think that there are some freestanding sites that have enough patients that their confidence will be reasonably high that they can proceed.
And I don't think freestanding clinics really believe I think that a lot of freestanding people believe that this condition -- that there's not going to be any situation imaginable per hospitals wind up being above the compensation for freestanding clinics.
I don't think anybody thinks that situation is going to stand and that at the very very very worst and this would still be wrong that freestandings would be the same as hospitals and under -- if you do the math under those considerations I think that a lot of them are still going to think that there's opportunity here.
However caution will be probably more likely in the fourth quarter.
We've sort of taken as we looked at our sales situation we try to take that into account but we'll have to see how people behave on the orders front.
I think in the end some -- yes you should expect some caution on the part of buyers but people are still talking to us people are still interested.
So -- and there's still need for these freestanding clinics.
Research Division</strong> And do you think the 6% hospital increase holds or is there a risk that that gets dialed back? We've done all the -- we do on the average we calculated there's 2.
I think some of the codes are up in the 5 to 6 category but we calculated it a 2.
We think that's going to hold.
We think the mathematics for that is certain.
As I said I think issue is on the freestanding side.
There also I'll just mention the data that was used was based upon internet data and brochures and things like that.
It wasn't based upon a study.
And ordinarily the rules that require that a study be properly conducted.
So for all of those reasons we think that will be reversed.
But on the hospital side I don't see anything that would cause me to think that that 2% will drop.
Ladies and gentlemen with no further questions in the queue this concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Spencer Sias for closing remarks.
Thank you.
Thank you all for participating.
And again we're sorry to get the call started late but we're glad we got a chance to have all of you and a chance to answer your -- or ask your questions.
A replay of this call can be heard on the Varian investor website at www.varian.com/investor where it will be archived for a year.
To hear a telephone replay please call 1 (888) 286-8010 from inside the U.S.
or 1 (617) 801-6888 from outside the U.S.
and answer confirmation code number 56507486.
A telephone replay will be available till 5 p.m.
this Friday July 27.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes today's presentation and you may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2012 Varian Medical Systems Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jorcel and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Spencer Sias.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and welcome to Varian Medical Systems' conference call for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012.
With me are Dow Wilson President and CEO; Elisha Finney CFO; and Clarence Verhoef our Corporate Controller.
Dow and Elisha will summarize our results and will take your questions following the presentation.
To simplify our discussion unless otherwise stated all references to the quarter or year are fiscal quarters and fiscal years quarterly comparisons are for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 versus the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011.
Annual comparisons are for fiscal 2012 versus fiscal 2011.
Except as otherwise stated all results are from continuing operations which exclude additional losses associated with the sales of the research instruments portion of the Varian Particle Therapy business that were accrued in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011.
Please be advised that this presentation and discussion contains forward-looking statements or use of words and phrases such as outlook could should believe can estimate will and similar expressions are intended to identify those statements which represent our current judgment on future performance or other future matters.
While we believe them to be reasonable based on the information currently available to us these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of the important risks related to our business are described in our fourth quarter earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements in this presentation and discussion because of new information future events or otherwise.
As a quick reminder we'll be holding our Annual ASTRO IR Day in booth tour for investors from 7 to 10 a.m.
on Tuesday October 30 at the Westin Waterfront in Boston.
Management presentations also will be webcast between 7:30 and 8:30 a.m.
and details are available on our Investor Relations website.
We look forward to your participation.
And now here is Dow.
Good afternoon and welcome everyone.
I want to take a quick moment to congratulate Tim Girton on his retirement.
And now I'm handling over the company in such great shape despite tough circumstances and a challenging global economy.
We finished fiscal year '12 on a strong note with growth in our major businesses and a record -- good progress on our -- in our proton and security businesses and a record backlog that positions us for continued leadership.
To summarize our results earnings per diluted share increased 14% for the quarter to $1.08 and 9% for the year to $3.76.
Revenues rose 5% for the quarter to $756 million and 8% for the year to $2.8 billion.
Excluding protons revenues were up 9% for the quarter and 8% for the year.
Orders rose in double digits in our major businesses for the quarter.
Our quarter-ending backlog rose 12% to $2.8 billion.
Cash flow from operations was a record $191 million for the fourth quarter and $493 million for the year exceeding net earnings for both periods.
We closed the quarter with $705 million in cash and cash equivalents and $161 million of debt after spending $85 million to repurchase and retire 1.4 million shares of stock.
Turning to the operational highlights.
Oncology Systems' fourth quarter net orders rose 10% to $789 million up 10% in both international and North American markets.
Oncology's net orders for the year increased 7% to $2.4 billion with 5% growth in North America and 8% growth in international markets.
International markets generated 55% of annual net orders for the business.
The solid North American performance during the quarter was highlighted by multi-Linac orders and software purchases at numerous centers that are modernizing their treatment capabilities.
To give you a few examples we signed a major long-term equipment and service contract with the Cleveland Clinic.
Multi-Linac orders were placed by institutions including Indiana University Centura and Exempla in Colorado and the University of Nebraska which is replacing 2 Siemens units.
There were multiple TrueBeam orders including our first order at University of Wisconsin.
Conversions from competitors' treatment planning and information management software also contributed to strong growth in North America.
I will touch more on that in a few moments.
Net orders for the quarter were up 22% in Asia with healthy gains in both Japan and China.
Several centers in China ordered the TrueBeam platform some together with our integrated suite of Eclipse Treatment Planning and ARIA information management software.
In Japan we received orders from several centers in the national hospital system including one order stemming from our new strategic partnership with Siemens.
In EMEA net orders increased 12% or 20% on a constant currency basis with key wins in several countries.
In Turkey we received an order to equip 6 centers with a total of 2 TrueBeam and 4 Trilogy systems as well as our integrated software suite.
The Curie Institut in France placed an order for 3 TrueBeams together with our Eclipse and ARIA software.
Newcastle a former Siemens center in the U.K.
ordered 2 TrueBeams as well as the software to go with them.
Net orders in the Rest of the World region were down 26% versus the year-ago period when we had exceptionally strong growth in Australia.
The order decline in Australia offset growth in Latin American -- in Latin America where we sold linear accelerators in 11 countries during the quarter versus 8 countries in the prior-year period.
We had key wins during the quarter in Brazil Peru and Panama.
As you know Brazil is conducting a public tender for the purchase of 80 units and Varian is aggressively competing for this business.
To update you on the status of the tender there have been some delays while the Ministry of Health sorts out the planned placements of the units it will be ordering.
At this point we are expecting to go through a reverse auction bidding process sometime in November or December.
As you have probably noticed our TrueBeam platform for radiotherapy and radiosurgery has continued to be a major driver for our growth in markets around the globe.
As of the end of the quarter we had booked more than 645 TrueBeam orders since its introduction in 2010 and we had some 330 installations complete or in progress.
This premium product now represents about 50% of our worldwide high-energy machine orders.
Oncology's worldwide service organization once again delivered double-digit growth in orders and revenues during the quarter.
It ended the year with a total of $749 million in orders and represented more than 30% of total net orders for Oncology on the year.
Growth in this business is being driven by more sophisticated systems such as TrueBeam coming out of warranty higher contract capture rates higher average pricing and more software service agreements as well as the growing install base in international markets.
I'm pleased to report that Varian's customer support services organization has been rated #1 among linear accelerator manufacturers in 6 out of 9 key performance attributes including Net Promoter Score overall manufacturing performance and probability of repurchase.
The rankings were recently announced by IMV an independent healthcare market research firm that analyzes service trends in the imaging industry.
It's gratifying to have this affirmation of our quality and field efforts.
We also had 2 significant votes of confidence in our software during the quarter with contracts from Memorial Sloan-Kettering and the University of Michigan for a -- for our Eclipse Treatment Planning system.
These leading institutions have written and used their own treatment planning software for decades because they couldn't get what they needed from a commercial product.
This is a big milestone for us as a software company.
In addition to these sites there were more than 10 conversions in the quarter from competitors' software to either Eclipse and/or ARIA.
We're very excited about our exhibit at ASTRO this next week in Boston where we scheduled a special event in our booth at 2:07 p.m.
on Sunday afternoon when we're going to unveil our next move against cancer.
I can't say more about it today but I'm looking forward to discussing this and other exhibit features with you during our investor meeting at the show.
See you I hope at 2:07 p.m.
on Sunday afternoon.
We will also have a strong joint presence in our booth with Siemens.
And we're very pleased with the way our new strategic partnership is progressing.
It is going live in North America this month.
We will be launching an exciting new marketing campaign at the show.
The partnership is on target with our plans to establish ARIA connectivity to the Siemens installed base and our teams have already succeeded in making some joint sales of imaging and therapy products to customers in international markets.
Let me give you a quick update on reimbursements in the U.S.
We believe that CMS will provide some relief from its original proposed reimbursement cuts for freestanding facilities.
Together with our partners in freestanding clinics we have provided additional data including actual equipment and facility cost that should enable CMS to recalculate and revise its proposed rates for freestanding clinics.
There has been significant congressional support for a revision to the CMS proposal with the 1/3 of the Senate and more than 100 House members signing a letter to CMS opposing the cuts.
However we will not have certainty around the final numbers until early November.
We're also hopeful that proton reimbursement could be restored in the final rule.
Finally we were pleased to see the adoption of a new code for thoracic radiosurgery beginning this January.
This should help to expand the use of radiosurgery for lung cancer and it coincides with our focus on providing clinicians with more advanced tools to treat lung cancer.
Let me now turn to X-ray Products.
This business had a terrific quarter and finished the year on an especially strong note with the help of new products that spurred top line growth as well as productivity initiatives that led to substantial improvements in operating margins.
Net orders for this business grew by 15% during the quarter to $145 million.
For the full fiscal year net orders rose by 5% to $506 million.
Higher demand for our panels was driven by radiographic equipment makers in China and dental imaging equipment manufacturers in Europe.
The quarter was also helped by initial sales of new products which included a leading edge 43x43-centimeter cone-beam dynamic panel as well as new radiographic panel offerings.
We also saw sales of panel workstation combination package during the quarter as a result of our InfiMed acquisition last year.
More of these packages will be rolled out as engineering work is completed throughout this current year -- fiscal year.
As the panel business continues to expand and trends in digital imaging create new tube opportunities we continue to see the potential for a billion dollar business in X-ray Products.
Switching now to net orders in our Other category including our Security and Proton businesses.
We had a tough comparison with the year-ago quarter which included an $88 million order to equip the Scripps Proton Therapy Center in San Diego.
Net orders for the Other category were $30 million for the quarter versus $124 million in the year-ago quarter.
For the full fiscal year Other category net orders rose 7% to $216 million including 2 proton orders totaling over $120 million.
Highlights in the Proton business during the quarter included a new $83 million contract for a multi-room center to be operated by Emory Healthcare.
We plan to book this contract as an order when the project is financed.
As a reminder we have 3 booked orders for proton equipment at Scripps in San Diego; in Riyadh Saudi Arabia; and in St.
Petersburg Russia.
We also have a contract to equip a center at the University of Maryland and we plan to book this order when financing for the project is completed.
Now here is Elisha.
Thanks Dow and hello everyone.
While Dow has already covered net orders I want to briefly talk about the constant currency growth rates for the quarter which continued to be negatively impacted by the comparatively stronger U.S.
dollar against the euro.
Oncology Systems which is most heavily impacted by currency movement grew net orders in the quarter by 10% in dollars or 12% in constant currency.
Oncology's European net orders growth rate was up 12% in dollar and up 20% in constant currency while Asia and the Rest of the World was little impacted by foreign exchange in the quarter.
Total international Oncology growth was 10% in dollars and 14% in constant currency.
Fourth quarter revenues for the company increased 5% to $756 million with constant currency growth of 8%.
Oncology Systems posted a 7% increase in revenues and X-ray Products posted a gain of 9%.
Total revenues from businesses and the Other category was down significantly as strong revenue growth in our SIP business was more than offset by a steep decline in proton revenues from the year-ago quarter when we booked more than $30 million of the Scripps project revenue.
For the full year total company revenues were up 8% in dollars and 9% in constant currency.
The fourth quarter gross margin for the company increased by 1 point to 42.8%.
As we expected Oncology's gross margin decreased by almost 1.5 points to 43.5% due primarily to the continued shift to international markets and the comparatively stronger U.S.
dollar versus the euro.
X-ray Products' gross margin rose more than 2 points from the year-ago quarter to 43.3% due to a higher mix of panel products and improved quality cost for both tube and panels.
For the first time panels represented more than 50% of total revenues in the X-ray business.
The company's quarter-over-quarter improvement in gross margin was helped by substantially lower proton revenues which you will recall are booked at 0 profit.
For the full fiscal year the company's gross margin declined about 1 point to 42.6% due largely to a shift to international deliveries in our Oncology business and the stronger U.S.
dollar.
While I'm on the topic of gross margin I want to confirm that the future impact of the medical device excise tax will be reflected in the company's gross margin beginning in January of 2013.
We will highlight the effect of the tax each quarter.
Fourth quarter SG&amp;A expenses were $110 million or 14% of revenues up 1 point as a percentage of revenues from the year-ago quarter.
Fourth quarter R&amp;D expenses were $46 million or 6% of revenues even as a percentage of revenue with the year-ago quarter.
For the full fiscal year total operating expenses increased about 40 basis points to 21% of revenues.
Moving down the income statement fourth quarter operating earnings were $168 million or 22% of revenues.
For the fiscal year operating earnings were $594 million or 21% of revenues down 1.5 points from the prior year as a percentage of revenues.
Depreciation and amortization totaled $18 million for the quarter and $61 million for the year and CapEx for the year was equal to depreciation and amortization also at $61 million.
The effective tax rate was 28.7% from the quarter down 2 points from the year-ago quarter due largely to the geographic mix of earnings.
For the fiscal year the effective tax rate was 28.3% also down a little more than 2 points from the prior year.
Fully diluted shares outstanding decreased significantly from the year-ago quarter to 112 million due largely to our ongoing share repurchases.
Diluted earnings per share was 14% to $1.08 for the quarter and rose 9% to $3.76 for the year.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalent of $705 million debt of $161 million and stockholders' equity of $1.5 billion.
DSO of 85 days was up 5 days from the year-ago quarter.
Fourth quarter cash flow from operations was $191 million.
The primary usage of cash or $85 million to repurchase 1.4 million shares $21 million for CapEx and $14 million to pay down short-term debt.
For the full fiscal year cash flow from operations was a record $493 million more than net earnings for the year.
We now have an 8 million share repurchase authorization that will be in effect through calendar year 2013.
Now I'll turn it back over to Dow for the outlook.
Thanks Elisha.
Our company is positioned for growth by focusing on continuous innovation expanding our global presence building our software and services franchises and commercializing protons.
We're also enhancing our operational performance through productivity initiatives in all parts of the company.
As part of this effort we will be taking a restructuring charge in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013.
For the fiscal year 2013 we believe that revenues could increase by 8% to 9% over fiscal -- over the fiscal 2012's total.
Including an estimated $0.06 to $0.08 effect from the pending medical device excise tax fiscal year 2013 net earnings per diluted share should be in the range of $4.06 to $4.16.
For the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 total company revenues could increase by about 8% to 9% over the prior-year quarter.
Net earnings per diluted share including the planned restructuring charge of $0.02 to $0.03 should be in the range of $0.83 to $0.88.
We're now ready for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jeremy Feffer with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> First I wanted to ask about -- I just want to make sure I'm clear on reimbursement.
I recognized your comments.
I know we'll probably get the final rule in the next week or so.
But just so I understand assuming there's no change assuming things stayed the way they were proposed given your waiting of hospital to freestanding how do you look at the net-net impact of those proposed rules and how are there reflected in guidance? First of all that freestanding market is only about 10% of our global orders now probably about 20% of U.S.
Not too many years ago that number was more like 30%.
So we've already seen that market change quite significantly.
I would say that in the fourth quarter that market was sort of quiet and you saw our first quarter performance was pretty good.
So we did see good hospital market growth in U.S.
in the fourth quarter.
If the regulation is not changed if -- I'm sorry if the reimbursement is not changed and left at the proposed rate I think it's safe to say that it will be pretty dramatic impact on that market.
Jeremy I would just add -- to answer the second part of your question we are a backlog-driven company.
And so fortunately most of the revenue that we have in the guidance for FY '13 are machines that are already sitting in backlog plus our service organization.
There was a -- there also was a -- the Marwood Group published a report earlier this month suggesting that they expected maybe a 10% cut instead of the 40% proposed cut.
As I mentioned during the call Congress and Senate have been very supportive of providers and the industry and I think we're pretty encouraged by these new thoracic code.
We think that that's going to be a very important deal in helping open up radiation -- radiosurgery to the lung cancer clinic.
So that will be nice for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just wanted to switch over to X-ray.
Obviously a nice rebound from the last couple of quarters.
I know you're citing some of these new products to drive that order growth.
Do you see this as sustainable? Or these more -- some one-time things? Or is this a more sustainable run rate that we should be thinking about going forward? Frankly the radiology market has been flattish.
So the market has nothing to write home about.
But the -- our game in this business though is growing our served market and that business has done just a terrific job at introducing new products and signing up new customers.
We had several new product launches last year.
By the time you get a customer signed up and get it designed into the product and rolling out it takes a while.
We're starting to see that impact and we have a whole bunch of new products we're introducing again this year.
So we're very encouraged.
We've got a new replacement tube for CT scanning.
Our tubes are optimized for the new digital panels.
That could drive a new replacement cycle in the tubes business.
We've got a new wireless panel.
Anyway a whole bunch of new products coming out of the X-ray business.
So I think we got a game here for the next little while.
They're doing well and that game is going to continue.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Palmer with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Dow I was hoping if you could maybe just dive a little deeper in the 10% U.S.
order growth.
How much of that is coming from the freestanding clinic market? That's a very small -- that's I'd say very small.
Research Division</strong> And then when do you expect that to pick up after we get the ruling here? Oh I'll tell you after that I hear about the reimbursement decision.
So I think that market has been quiet frankly all year but especially the second half of this past year it's been very quiet.
And if reimbursement remains flattish I think we'd see it pick up a little bit.
There has been -- we are seeing the hospital market -- just kind of stepping back from a market standpoint we are seeing the hospital markets being more aggressive in really trying to go after the business that they've lost over the last few years.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then for Elisha how should we think about the margin progression throughout the year? I mean looking at the order growth in international should we assume some continued pressure on gross margins? Well if you look at the guidance for FY '13 the sale is up 8% to 9%.
And I do want to mention that that includes some significant proton revenue.
So 80% 90% -- $80 million to $90 million in proton revenue in the fiscal year.
So if one of those deals were to fall out we would be on the low end of that range; if it all materializes towards the higher end of that range.
But the gross margin for the total company if you exclude the excise tax next year is about flat at 42%.
So despite higher proton revenues and this continued shift to the international deliveries we're going to still be able to maintain margin roughly flat with the FY '12.
Again that excise tax does take the margin down by about 0.5 point.
Your next question comes from the line of Dalton Chandler with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up Dow on your comments about seeing these multi-unit orders.
I know there's -- to some extent there's always an upgrade cycle going on.
But you're sort of implying that maybe you're seeing an acceleration in that.
Is that the case? And if so why do you think it's happening right now? I'd say we always have a few.
We did have maybe more this quarter than we usually see.
I don't know if that's a trend yet that I could say Dalton.
A we always have more orders in the fourth quarter anyway so it ends up being what? 28% of the year-ish.
And I don't know that that there's a market trend that we could point to at this point other than let's hope it keeps going.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then just on your $0.06 to $0.08 impact guidance from the excise tax I'm having a hard time getting to a number that low could you just walk us through how you get there? Sure.
Well it's 2.3% tax on FDA-listed devices that excludes service.
You can deduct installation.
So there's a few things that you can deduct.
You can also deduct freight.
So a very very high level of math Dalton.
If you take Oncology sales in the U.S.
U.S.
only with no service call it roughly $750 million you take out 7% for installation freight that gets you close to $55 million.
You tax effect that at 2.3% and it gets you right at about $4 million a quarter $3.5 million to $4 million per quarter.
The $10 million to $12 million for this year again is only 3 quarters are covered in FY '13.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the -- like the X-ray tubes that you sell to OEMs you don't pay tax on that? Very little in panels because they are sold for further manufacture because they are components.
They are not included in this.
And then I should also mention on protons while the dollars are high it's also very a high installation cost that we get to deduct and we contractually pass the tax onto our customers in our contracts for protons.
Your next question comes from the line of Amit Bhalla with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just Dow dig a little bit deeper into the U.S.
Oncology performance and see if you could just piece out a little bit about the Siemens' contribution as well as the multi-unit orders that were kind of above and beyond what you'd normally see.
So maybe you could just help us Dow -- and maybe what percentage of the U.S.
orders this time around were different than the past and how sustainable that would be? As I said I think that's an event.
I think it's kind of in a normal range.
We always have I'd say significant multi-unit orders.
So that's not a change.
We maybe saw a little bit more this last quarter than usual but I don't think it's anything abnormal from what we've normally had.
The U.S.
market as well as the Siemens we are seeing some Siemens install base trade out.
We have not really been able to launch our Siemens partnership in the U.S.
Our GE partnership expires right before ASTRO this week in fact.
And so we'll really be launching that -- yes it expires at 26th of October so we'll really be taking off our Siemens/Varian relationship in the U.S.
at ASTRO.
Outside of the U.S.
I think the Siemens partnership has helped us out a little bit and we've also helped them out a little bit.
So I think that we -- I did point to a couple of customers in the U.S.
that were Siemens units but that was largely without their help at this point.
Research Division</strong> Is it sustainability Dow on what you're seeing right now in the U.S.? Well it's -- we are -- we love what we saw.
I think at this point it's too early to decide is this a trend or an event but we're -- the funnel looks pretty good and the freestanding market is still very quiet yet but we were certainly very pleased on the quarter.
Research Division</strong> I just -- if I could sneak a quick one in for Elisha in the guidance if you look at the low end of your earnings range at the 8% that component you're getting very little leverage.
So can you just talk about the leverage components? I know you gave gross margin already but talk about expenses and tax how you're thinking about those in the low end of your guidance versus the high? Sure.
Yes.
So again gross margin flat at about 42% for the full-year ROS also about 21% for the full-year.
We do have the restructuring charge that Dow mentioned the excise tax obviously goes into that as well.
Tax rate of 28% to 29% helped by the share repurchase program that we've done to get to that range.
We also put a range on there a fairly broad range because of just the unprecedented euro fluctuation that we saw in the last year.
So we've run this at $1.20 to $1.30 and everywhere in between and we just have to be -- at this -- I think we have to be prudent this early in the fiscal year to assume that the euro won't necessarily stay right at the $1.30 it is right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Tycho Peterson with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I want to kind of follow up on a question a minute ago and just kind of the strength in U.S.
market.
Obviously it's a lot better than people were expecting.
Can you just talk to where you saw -- you were most surprised relative to your own expectations? And how much of what you're seeing you think is a function of share shift versus other factors? I'd say I think our share was up.
We haven't seen everybody's results but I'd say we probably got a couple of points market shares in the fourth quarter.
We usually don't get too excited about quarterly movements and we're not always sure how much we should celebrate even movements in orders.
When you look at a year back on a sales basis we do see our share growing on a revenue basis.
And as we like things that we can put in our wallet; that tends to be the way we can measure it.
In terms of the market conditions and what surprised us we were obviously pleased at the results in the Q4 U.S.
performance.
We do have a new sales team.
I think that was part of it.
We've got a very energized sales team and we're very pleased with how that is going.
The -- maybe there are some external factors.
Again I'd rather wait a quarter or 2 before commenting on that.
We've talked a little bit about the big IT spends that has been happening in healthcare maybe a lot of capital dollars have been allocated in that direction might we see some come back to revenue-generating capital investment we're obviously hopeful.
But I certainly haven't seen any data yet to suggest that that's the case.
We are seeing our treatment planning and information system products are getting very good traction.
We've had new releases of both of those products and people are excited about that.
We'll cover that some more in Boston at the Investor Event but that's exciting.
Anyway it was really kind of broad-based with the exception of the freestanding market.
So that was encouraging.
Research Division</strong> And then since this is your first call in the CEO role I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit about your priorities and maybe some of the initiatives we should think about you -- you're taking in in your first year? And I know you obviously mentioned the restructuring charge as well can you just talk a little bit about how you're thinking about the cost structure? Sure.
I'd say -- first of all we're going to be who we've always been and that is we're an innovation-driven company.
And it's new products that drive our growth to being more than a $1.5 billion of growth.
RapidArc's $600 million of growth.
The terrific job that Bob Kluge and his team have done in X-Ray Products with flat panel.
Just a number of stories like that.
We're an organic-driven growth company.
That's who we've always been.
That's who we're going to be.
So our R&amp;D investment is very important that we get juice out of that investment.
We think we have something very exciting to show you in Boston on Sunday.
So come see what some of that investment is buying us.
Going down the list I think in terms of things that will be changing a little bit clearly emerging markets are very important for us both in terms of distribution and service investment as well as having the right product at the right price points.
So that's going to be continuing and an important theme for us.
Our software and services businesses are both great platforms.
We want to -- they've been growing well.
We want to keep growing them.
Our service business is now almost 1/3 of the company $750 million of orders I think I mentioned on the call still growing at double-digit rate.
Our software business -- now some of that is double counted in our service business but our software business overall is a $500 million business.
I think we've got continued big opportunity there.
We were -- it was a small thing we said in the script but really one of the most important things for us in the quarter was the wins that University of Michigan and Memorial Sloan-Kettering for our treatment planning product just really demonstrates the great strength of our software products and their ability to do what customers want them to do in the most demanding of environments.
We also won in the oncology information system space a conversion at the Mayo Clinic.
So again a huge endorsement of our software business.
So I think -- anyway software and services is going to be a big initiative.
Protons is -- we've got some big milestones next year.
So we want to get San Diego first patient done next year.
That's probably our single biggest proof statement for our ability in protons next year.
So watch this space about next summer time.
And then on the productivity side it's -- and I think we've got a little wake-up call 6 months ago with the markets changing and shifting and the shift to international markets.
We clearly want to drive gross margin so we've got a number of initiatives.
We talked -- we have talked on this call in the past about TrueBeam.
We are seeing the traction on TrueBeam that we would like to see.
So that's good and we're now extending those efforts to the rest of our product line.
The restructuring is really pretty small.
We're offering an enhanced retirement package and we're really kind of looking at how do we redeploy some of our resources to those markets.
That's the game for us as we go forward.
It's really do we have the right resources in the right place given where our growth is especially in the emerging markets.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I just have one quick one for Elisha and then I'll hop off.
You have a lot of your cash offshore.
Can you just talk about your ability to fund repurchases given [indiscernible] cash? Yes.
I would say 90 -- 98% of our cash is offshore and as we continue to grow more internationally I don't see that really changing any time soon.
But given the very strong cash flow that we have in an extremely conservative balance sheet and an almost 0 interest rate environment right now both on the borrowing and on the investment side you should assume that we will continue to deploy a significant part of our cash flow into share repurchase.
We have an 8 million share authorization that will carry us through calendar year 2013 and we will not be afraid to take on a prudent level of debt in order to execute under that authorization.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Beuchaw with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to pick up on a topic that Tim had brought up earlier this year.
And I believe over the last 3 calls had chosen to proactively address -- and it's product pricing.
I didn't hear about it on this call.
Is that a signal that your product pricing is less of an issue than it was before? I think the skeptic would say that when we had to a big-order quarter there could be a pricing dynamic there.
Could you help us understand how things are evolving? Good question.
I'd say -- first of all I don't think in the quarter pricing was any more intense than it's been in the past.
So I don't think that was a lever that we used to drive share in the quarter at all.
In fact I would say that our order pricing is stabilizing.
We have repositioned some of our products.
This goes back.
It wasn't something we did in the quarter but we did some repositioning 6 to 9 months ago with some tweaks over the last quarter to -- of our product line to make sure we were achieving the margin targets that we needed in markets.
So I -- we're actually hopeful that that helps us go in the -- in a positive direction.
I'd say competition has still been tough.
We've got to be disciplined about the way we price.
We focus on capability reliability throughput.
We do a lot of training of our sales force.
We're as committed as any organization to sales training as anybody out there.
We want to really make sure we've got people who can sell the value at each price point.
And as we've said a little bit in the past we also want to be careful about how we offer price and terms.
In this environment everybody wants terms and that's okay and clearly we've got the balance sheet to do that but we don't want to be in that position where we're offering terms and price.
So Elisha and her team have a good process.
The sales team and Kolleen Kennedy who runs the Oncology business have a good escalation system so that we're monitoring this as we go.
So I think -- you know what? It's a good question.
We're looking at it.
I would say as the take away stable.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And another topic that I'm sure you're really enjoying talking about as CEO is reimbursement.
I want to ask a question in a different way.
Are we all making this out to be a bigger risk financially in terms of the order patterns for the company than it really is? Let me say it in another way.
If the rule let's say comes in with some sort of moderation as you suggest say it's minus 12 so that's minus 20 over a 2-year span what does that really mean for orders over the balance of the year? Are we too concerned about it? I'll start with I haven't done the regression so I couldn't tell you what the r squared is on this but when you stand back and look at the overall picture there is some good news.
The good news is hospital reimbursement is up 2%.
So in a 0 inflation environment they get a price increase.
Two we've got this thoracic code coming with the single most exciting thing that's happening in our business is radiosurgery to treat lung cancer.
Not so driver for everybody.
And now what happens in the freestanding market as I said it's 10% of our global orders.
It's just not that important anymore.
So I'd say in the short-term yes I think it probably is a little bit overplayed.
And your next question comes from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping -- i know we didn't [ph] pick up on things Tim said in the past.
I know we obviously have you now as the CEO but one thing that was sort of a topic of discussion over the past year or so was M&amp;A.
But in a response to an earlier question you made it pretty clear that organic growth was going to really be the crust of the growth profile going forward.
If you could maybe talk about your latest thoughts on acquisitions and how that fits into your business particularly in the context of the solid numbers that you've just put up? We'd love to do more quarters like the last one.
That's kind of where we are and we've got a new product coming out at ASTRO.
We've always been an organic growth company.
We've got lots of opportunities.
Our big challenge in allocating our R&amp;D investment is not looking for the next opportunity.
It's really which ones are we going to fund and not fund.
That's our biggest challenge going forward.
So I'd say we're always looking.
If there's a good acquisition that comes in we'll take a look at it.
But it's going to be product technology and probably small and accretive quickly.
That's what we want to look at.
So I -- Tim is smarter than I am so I'm not going to talk too much on this one.
But the -- I'm -- we're going to be conservative on this.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Okay.
We want to thank you very much.
We thank you all for participating.
A replay of this call can be heard on the Varian's Investor website at www.varian.com/investor where it will be archived for a year.
To hear a telephone replay please dial 1 (888) 286-8010 from inside the U.S.
or 1 (617) 801-6888 from outside the U.S.
and enter in confirmation code number 23435173.
This telephone replay will be available through 5 p.m.
Friday October 26.
We look forward to seeing you at ASTRO next week and go Giants.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Greetings and welcome to the Varian Medical Systems' First Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Spencer Sias Vice President of Investor Relations for Varian Medical Systems.
Thank you Mr.
Sias.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and welcome to Varian Medical Systems' conference call for the first quarter of fiscal year 2013.
With me are Dow Wilson President and CEO; Elisha Finney CFO; and Clarence Verhoef our Corporate Controller.
Dow and Elisha will summarize our results and will take your questions following the presentation.
To simplify our discussion unless otherwise stated all references to the quarter or year are fiscal quarters and fiscal year.
Quarterly comparisons are for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 versus the first quarter of fiscal 2012.
Please be advised that this presentation and discussion contains forward-looking statements or use of words and phrases such as outlook could should believe can estimate will plan and similar expressions are intended to identify those statements which represent our current judgment on future performance or other future matters.
While we believe them to be reasonable based on information currently available to us these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of the important risks relating to our business are described in our first quarter earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements in this presentation and discussion because of new information future events or otherwise.
And now here is Dow.
Good afternoon and welcome everyone.
I'm pleased to report that our company's first quarter revenues and net earnings grew in line with our expectations for our major businesses and the overall company.
We also hit our margin targets excluding a $4.1 million restructuring charge in the quarter related to an enhanced retirement program.
Our operating margin improved versus the year-ago quarter.
Net orders rose robustly in our X-ray Products business but declined in our Oncology business which experienced weaker orders in Europe and Asia versus very strong year-ago results.
To summarize our results for the quarter earnings per diluted share increased 9% to $0.86.
Revenues rose 8% to $678 million.
Net orders were up 21% in X-ray Products and down by 2% in Oncology Systems.
Our quarter-ending backlog rose 11% to $2.8 billion.
We closed the quarter with $755 million in cash and cash equivalents and $206 million of debt.
I will cover the operational highlights for the quarter and let Elisha walk you through the P&amp;L and the balance sheet.
Oncology Systems' first quarter net orders fell 2% to $477 million with 2% growth in North America that was offset by a 4% decline across markets outside North America.
North American orders grew with the help of replacements of competitive software particularly in the area of treatment planning.
We also had strategic wins at several other sites that ordered our TrueBeam system together with our software.
Order activity in the U.S.
appear to be affected by timing.
Looking at the last 6 months our North American order growth was 7% in line with the market growth we have been seeing in this region.
The first quarter also may have run into some headwinds from uncertainty in Washington and reimbursement cuts at freestanding clinics.
Additionally we have seen strong early interest in our newly introduced EDGE radiosurgery system which received FDA clearance at the end of the quarter.
This interest may have caused some customers to extend their purchasing cycle in order to evaluate this exciting new treatment option.
I will touch more on EDGE in a few minutes.
Outside of North America Oncology's overall net orders declined by 4%.
This included an 11% decline in EMEA and a 1% decline in Asia that together offset a 33% increase in the Rest of the World including Latin America and Australia.
In Latin America we booked orders in 5 countries including the first TrueBeam order in Colombia.
In Asia robust order growth in both China and Japan was offset by sharp declines in several other countries.
The sales funnel in Asia continues to look good.
Net orders were down in Northern Southern and Western Europe as well as in the Middle East where government purchase orders were delayed.
Orders were up in Africa where we had a key win in Algeria and up in Eastern Europe where we saw significant orders in Russia and Bulgaria.
In addition to helping with some international sales during the quarter the Varian and Siemens strategic partnership went live in North America in October.
We believe it contributed to orders during the quarter in Germany as well.
As you know Brazil is conducting a public tender for the purchase of more than 80 units and we are competing for this business.
To update you on the status of the tender the Ministry of Health still expects to conduct a reverse auction and it is continuing to state that it is a "winner take all" proposition for hardware software and brachytherapy products.
Before leaving Oncology let me touch on 2 growth drivers for the business.
As I mentioned earlier there is strong customer interest in EDGE which we launched at ASTRO in November.
We hope it becomes a game changer in the fight against lung liver pancreatic and other cancers that have been very difficult to treat with traditional technology.
Demand for EDGE should be helped by the adoption of the new reimbursement code for thoracic radiosurgery.
Lastly Oncology's worldwide service organizations continue to drive growth for the segment with quarter-over-quarter double-digit increases in both orders and revenues.
This now represents more than 35% of Oncology's business.
Let me turn now to X-ray Products.
This business had a terrific quarter and has started the year on an especially strong note.
Good order growth was driven by strong demand for our radiographic panels and high-end CT tubes.
Net orders for this business grew 21% during the quarter to $133 million.
Revenues grew by 18% to $133 million and margins for this business were up 1 percentage point over the first quarter of 2012 thanks largely to continued productivity gains.
Demand for our radiographic panels was particularly strong in China while our newer high-performance CT tubes sold extremely well in Japan as a result of apparent customer share gains in the CT market.
The quarter was also helped by the early sales of new products which included a leading edge 43 x 43 centimeter Cone Beam dynamic panel.
In the next few months we will be launching further new products including a wireless panel and new dental panels which would help to continue this momentum.
As the panel business expands and trends in digital imaging create new tube opportunities we remain enthusiastic about our X-ray Products business.
Switching now to the Other category including the Security and Particle Therapy businesses we had a quiet quarter in our Security business and no Particle Therapy orders.
Net orders for the Other category were $9 million for the quarter versus $12 million in the year-ago quarter.
First quarter revenues for the Other category were $21 million compared with $25 million in the year-ago quarter.
Construction work at the Scripps facility in San Diego is nearing conclusion and commissions at the facility are slated to start treating patients by the end of the fiscal year.
Although we did not book any new orders in our Particle Therapy business during the quarter the pipeline looks good.
Before leaving the Other category I want to inform you that we have reorganized our Security business to report in to Bob Kluge who has been managing our successful X-ray Products business.
Bob will now oversee our Security business as Senior Vice President of our 2 components businesses.
Congratulations to Bob.
Now here's Elisha.
Thanks Dow.
Congratulations Bob and hello everyone.
While Dow has already covered net orders I want to briefly talk about the constant currency growth rates for the quarter.
In comparing quarter-over-quarter exchange rates there was a small effect from FX.
Worldwide Oncology net orders declined by 2% in dollars and fell by 1% in constant currency.
Oncology's North American net orders were up 2% in both dollars and in constant currency.
It's -- EMEA net orders fell 11% in dollars and 8% in constant currency and Asia was down 1% in dollars and up 1% in constant currency.
Oncology net orders in the Rest of World region grew by 33% in dollars and 31% in constant currency.
First quarter revenues increased 8% to $678 million with constant currency growth of 9%.
Oncology Systems posted an 8% increase in revenues and X-ray Products posted a gain of 18%.
Revenues from businesses in the Other category declined by $3 million.
Particle Therapy revenues booked on a percentage-of-completion basis was down from the year-ago quarter as expected reflecting the near completion of our installation at Scripps.
As an aside we expect to book about $20 million in low-margin revenue during the second quarter related to the Scripps installation and primarily from the commencement of our proton project in Saudi Arabia.
For the year depending upon the timing of other projects annual proton revenues could approximate $80 million.
The first quarter gross margin for the company was essentially equal to the year-ago period at 42.9%.
Oncology Systems' gross margin fell by 1 point as expected to 43.9% due primarily to a product and geographic mix shift.
X-ray Products' gross margin increased more than a point to 41.7% primarily due to a significant increase in volume and faster growth in our panel products.
Panels now represent more than half of the revenue for X-ray Products.
As a reminder in the second quarter we will begin to account for the medical excise tax in our gross margin.
The total company impact for the balance of the year is expected to be in the range of $8 million to $10 million.
First quarter SG&amp;A expenses were $106 million or 16% of revenues up 33 basis points as a percentage of revenue from the year-ago quarter.
Included in the SG&amp;A expenses for the first quarter was the $4.1 million restructuring charge.
This charge was a bit higher than expected but it is evidence of the success of the enhanced retirement program.
Excluding this charge SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue would have improved by about 30 basis points from the year-ago quarter.
Before leaving SG&amp;A I should let you know that during the second quarter we plan to take an estimated $2.5 million additional restructuring charge to complete the enhanced retirement program.
First quarter R&amp;D expenses were $47 million or 7% of revenues equal as a percentage of revenue with the year-ago period.
First quarter operating earnings increased 7% to $137 million or 20% of revenues.
Depreciation and amortization totaled $17 million for the quarter.
The effective tax rate was 31% for the quarter up 1 point from the year-ago period and about 1 point higher than we expected as a result of the geographic mix of profits.
As I'm sure you have heard the R&amp;D tax credit was extended by Congress on January 2.
Given this extension we now believe that the tax rate for this full fiscal year will be about 28.5%.
The catch-up of the 2012 R&amp;D tax credit will be reflected in our second fiscal quarter which should result in a lower tax rate of about 28% for the quarter.
Fully diluted shares outstanding decreased from the year-ago quarter to $111 million due mainly to our share repurchase program.
Diluted earnings per share increased by 9% to $0.86.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalent of $755 million debt of $206 million and stockholder's equity of $1.6 billion.
Day sales outstanding increased by 1 day to 87 days including a 6-day impact from the Particle Therapy business.
First quarter cash flow from operations was $72 million with net earnings partially offset by increases in inventory to support this year's revenue growth.
Other primary sources of cash were $59 million from stock option proceeds.
Primary uses of cash were $104 million to repurchase 1.5 million shares under our stock repurchase program and $14 million for capital expenditures.
Now I'll turn it back over to Dow for the outlook.
Thanks Elisha.
We are pleased with our first quarter results in revenues and earnings which should keep the company on track for hitting its fiscal 2013 growth targets.
We remain confident in the fundamental long-term strategy for serving our markets.
For the second quarter of fiscal year 2013 total company revenues could increase by about 5% to 6% over the prior year quarter.
With the balance of restructuring charges from the enhanced retirement program net earnings per diluted share for the second quarter should be in the range of $0.98 to $1.03.
For the fiscal year we continue to believe that total company revenues could increase by about 8% to 9% over the prior fiscal year.
Net earnings per diluted share for the fiscal year could be in the range of $4.08 to $4.16.
We're now ready for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jeff Johnson of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Question one Dow you mentioned timing in your prepared remarks and kind of referenced the last quarter's strength in the U.S.
Also referenced in maybe some delayed interest in EDGE or maybe some backlog interest in EDGE given that it didn't get approved till late December.
So just trying to figure out is it -- as you point to timing issues are you referencing that more as kind of take last quarter's numbers and this quarter's numbers and average them? Or there may have been deferrals this quarter that could come back and help over the coming quarters? I think there's a number of things going on here.
As we said last quarter one quarter does not a trend make.
So timing is certainly a factor as we look back that way.
The reality is the market's probably not as strong as last quarter and certainly not as weak as this quarter.
So we're probably in the kind of mid- to high-single digit growth rates for oncology.
We did have as you know very robust Q4 and a weak Q1.
I think the market is kind of right smack in the middle.
We think market fundamentals remain down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I may have misheard there but it sounds like you may have actually provided a little bit of guidance around orders.
No no.
Research Division</strong> Mid-single digits is kind of what I was hearing there.
Mid to upper single digits.
But...
Well as you look back 6 months that's kind of what we think the market is doing.
Research Division</strong> Ah that was a backward-looking comment.
Okay.
No that's fair.
And Elisha one question for you on just tax rate.
You obviously with the R&amp;D tax credit can you remind me what was originally embedded in your guidance for this year for expected effective tax rate and maybe what the R&amp;D tax credit is translating to as a sort of EPS tailwind relative to prior guidance? Sure Jeff.
And the R&amp;D tax credit is a little less than 1 point impact if you look at it for the full year.
And so obviously when we set our original guidance on tax we're considering lots and lots of different variables that can go into that.
What's really driving it more than anything is the geographic mix of earnings but there's all other sorts of discrete items that go into the rate as well.
So that's why we put a range on it.
So at this point what we're saying is that our range instead of 28% to 29% we've now come in closer to the 28.5% with that geographic mix of earnings the negative being offset by the positive somewhat of the R&amp;D tax credit.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's helpful.
Last question I promise just on the enhanced retirement program.
Dow can you put any or Elisha any numbers around that? What maybe percentage headcount reduction now you're thinking you might see or how that might translate over the next few years from a cost-saving standpoint? Sure.
It's roughly 80 employees and that's out of our worldwide number of 6 000.
This was a US-based program.
And this is the first time the company has done this.
We really didn't know what to expect.
And I'm happy to say I think it was widely successful.
It was a win-win for employees and for us.
And the reason some of this charge is going into Q2 is just given the timing of some retirements.
So we couldn't have them all in the first quarter so there are some that will be completed in the second quarter.
Our next question is from James Terwilliger of Benchmark.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I had just 2 quick questions.
The first one was on the announcement for the TrueBeam in India.
And the second if you could talk about the Indian market and what that product means over there from a competitive standpoint a pricing standpoint.
And the second part of the question would be focused on I think you had an ASTRO in Japan and I was wondering if you could provide any color about the ASTRO that took place in Japan as well.
Relative to India we have had success with TrueBeam in India.
We did get the approval earlier.
Was it early in the fourth quarter? Yes CE Mark.
Yes yes.
Anyway -- so we've been -- there were some local things that we had to go through in the Indian market.
Those are now cleared.
So we are set to go in the India market.
That market is not unlike some other global markets where there's a good piece of the market that's very high end and then a significant piece of the market that's in kind of the performance value segment.
TrueBeam will help us in that high-end market.
Radiosurgery is a big deal in India.
And a few years ago as an example we saw very good uptake of our Novalis Tx in that market.
So I think this will -- this will help us there.
I believe the JASTRO is this next quarter in Japan.
So it's coming up on the calendar.
So we haven't gone to JASTRO yet.
Our next question is from Tycho Peterson of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you just flush out some of the end market commentary on Europe and Asia in particular? I know you called out some of these in your prepared comments but where were you surprised by the weakness? And how should we think about trends in the next couple of quarters? Sure.
I guess -- maybe start with the comments from last quarter.
I think as we went around the horn last quarter one of the surprises was just how strong Europe was last quarter.
So we're very strong in Q4.
So we think that timing is probably a good chunk of the main reason of what's going on here.
We did see a couple -- a few orders delayed.
Northern and Southern Europe were down.
Western Europe and the Middle East were flat for us.
We had good growth in Eastern Europe and Africa.
Anyway we still believe that the fundamentals in Europe are sound.
The last -- if you look back 2 quarters it's kind of mid-single-digit growth and that's probably a pretty good indication of what's happening in the market.
Our funnel-in forecast looked good there.
We believe we're maintaining share and one of the things we like is a stable foreign exchange environment.
So that's kind of the Europe story.
In Asia we had great growth in Japan and China versus very tough comps.
In China we were up 30% on a 40% number from last year.
And in Japan we were up 15% on a 19% number from last year.
So we feel very good about Japan and China.
The rest of Asia is kind of lumpy.
They come and go and we were in fact down 90% in the rest of Asia.
We had some orders last year in South Korea Thailand and Malaysia that were big.
And that's kind of the rest of the Asia story.
Maybe just to round out the globe here for you Tycho in the Rest of the World we were up.
We had very good growth as I mentioned in the script.
And Latin America and Rest of the World growth was up 33%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Elisha you raised the bottom end of guidance by I think $0.02.
Is that just the R&amp;D tax credit? Or are there some restructuring benefits from that? Well it's given the results that we had in Q1 where we landed right at the midpoint of the guidance it's given the little bit lower excise tax given the constructive pricing ruling that we had recently.
That's offset by a little bit higher shares than we had first anticipated and the higher restructuring charge for the retirement program.
And then yes the tax is -- the R&amp;D tax is a benefit.
So you blend all of that together and that's how we got to the new range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last quick one on EDGE.
Any update on when we should get the Calypso approval? How we should think about that being ruled out? Yes.
The Calypso approval we expect in the -- I believe sometime in the April May time frame.
There's still some uncertainty about it.
We have been back to answer questions.
And as long as that question set goes around it could take a while.
But the clinical data is complete and we think we're answering mostly technical questions.
So our forecast at this point is kind of the April May time frame Tycho.
Our next question is from Amit Bhalla of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Dow in your "around the horn" comments I didn't hear a number for how India performed in the quarter.
Could you just give us that growth rate? And second for Elisha on gross margin.
The gross margin in the quarter tracked better than your full-year guidance of 42%.
So can you just talk to us on how gross margin will play out for the remaining quarters of the year? Yes.
I'd say on India Amit we -- it's kind of buried in our Europe number.
The Middle East I said was flat so -- I don't have India in front of me but I assume that it's probably in that range.
So for the gross margin Amit we're still at that 42% to 43% for the total company.
Oncology landed exactly where we hoped for Q1 and where we thought they would and continue to be in that 43% to 44% range for the full fiscal year.
Of course there is an $8 million to $10 million excise tax.
If you were to exclude that the oncology margin would be essentially even with the year-ago period very close to 44% but we have to take that into the Oncology margin.
X-ray Products is going to be in the low 40s around 42%.
We should see a -- towards the balance of the end of the year we're going to anticipate significant proton revenue at a very low margin relative to our other businesses.
So that has to -- that impacts the total company margin as well.
So really those 2 factors it's the excise tax and increased proton revenue which will only be about somewhere around a 12% to 15% gross margin for the deals that we book in Q3 and Q4.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just a quick follow-up Dow on Siemens.
It did go live in North America in the quarter.
But in your comments you only highlighted Germany as a potential positive impact.
Can you just talk to us about the early thoughts on Siemens in the U.S.? Yes.
I think -- yes we did kick it off.
It took us till -- we were contractually obligated for our former partner through the end of September.
And so that is now off and going.
I'd say we've had very good progress.
It's really kind of sales teams meeting together at this point.
We have sold our few -- our first few CT scanners CT simulators.
So that's good.
We -- they are helping us in the U.S.
We did see -- we have had other very good contribution from them and other geographies Northern Africa Eastern Europe and even some in Asia.
So we are seeing some continued good pick-up outside of the U.S.
We're still a little early here in the U.S.
but we're -- I guess -- my barometer on these things has always "How do salespeople react?" And the continued reaction of our salespeople and their salespeople is very positive.
So that's I think a good barometer of what's to come.
Our next question comes from Steve Beuchaw of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> One question on the software business.
Can you give us a sense to where the growth came out for that segment of Oncology in the quarter? Is that still trending in the $100 million to $200 million range a mid-teens grower? Any updates there? I'd say it's broad-based.
We have very good customer response to our treatment planning products probably starts there.
Our ARIA product is going through a new product cycle which is good.
Some new features and capability and a lot of creature comfort for usability.
So that -- we had a number of competitive takeouts in the quarter.
And I'd say geographically that business is bigger in the U.S.
especially on the oncology information side.
But the treatment planning growth has been global and we are starting to see pickup outside of the U.S.
in our software business.
Elisha you want to add anything there? No I think that covered it.
Research Division</strong> And then Dow just going into a little bit more detail on your commentary on a couple of the disruptions in the order funnel in the quarter whether it's the fiscal cliff or the EDGE launch.
Are you seeing signs that give you confidence that any of that disruption on the fiscal cliff is temporary? And then on EDGE could you spend just a little bit more time talking about the commercial potential and impact of that product over the course of the year? Sure.
I'd say in North America we did have a very strong Q4.
Q1 was up 2%.
So just to look back on 6 months as a mid-single a high-single-digit growth market.
The hospital market remains okay.
And as you know the freestanding market has been quiet for the last year and I'd say that market continues to be very very quiet.
The U.S.
market is an innovation-driven market.
Our share is stable maybe even to a hair up in the U.S.
Fiscal cliff impact it's not clear.
I do think there were some people kind of waiting.
No I don't think it had a big market impact but the uncertainty around it certainly wasn't a benefit to the market.
I think we are continuing to see slowness in the freestanding market.
On EDGE we are seeing strong interest in North America.
We are seeing a very good interest from the radiation oncology community as well as the surgical community.
I think it's a game changer in lung cancer.
And we're starting to see -- we've talked a little bit about this but we're starting to see more momentum from folks around liver cancer.
That market is mostly outside of the U.S.
But even our U.S.
customers are getting excited about liver cancer.
I think as we said last quarter the target market for this product -- I think if you add the Gamma Knife and the CyberKnife up that's about 125 units a year-ish and that's really where we want to position this product and go after that volume.
Customer response to some of the features on the product especially the 6-degree of freedom couch and the tumor-tracking multi-leaf collimator have been really outstanding.
And from a commercial point of view we launched at ASTRO the sales team has been trained.
We await FDA approval and -- so we're kind of off and running.
We've got to work with customers to get it in their budgets.
So I think it's -- I think we'll see some impacts in Q2.
It's probably a little bit more of the second half impact for us.
Our next question is from Jeremy Feffer of Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> Dow I want to come back to sort of more bigger picture to the bigger reimbursement environment and I'm wondering if that's having any impact? I know you've talked about in the past your expectations of probably mid-single-digit cuts for the next few years and I'm wondering if you're -- any conversations with customers you're seeing that being a bit of an overhang.
I would say in the freestanding market for sure.
They were down 9% to kind of the final outcome of this last reimbursement decision.
So I think the freestanding market is going to remain very quiet.
I think this hospital market -- hey there's always uncertainty around reform and kind of what's happening in Washington but I don't know that it's in any material way different than what we kind of saw last year.
So I kind of think the U.S.
market is going to be not as strong as last quarter and not as weak as this past quarter.
Not as strong as Q4 and not as weak as Q1.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just quickly on gross margin.
Elisha I appreciate your comments there.
I'm wondering as we go forward how we should think about this -- both the product and geographic mix as it relates to gross margin? Well the biggest driver by far in gross margin is the product mix.
So with service and software being our highest margin products and then accessories and then the hardware.
So that can drive the mix pretty significantly.
Secondly is the geographic mix.
And in emerging markets it can be 5 points easily lower than what we might see in the U.S.
or Japan.
So when we're setting -- when we're looking at guidance for quarter in and quarter out we are looking at estimated -- where are products going to ship and what are the margin on those and trying to give you our best guesstimate if you will.
And so looking out for the year again if we exclude the excise tax Oncology would be roughly even with the year-ago period.
Our next question is from Jonathan Palmer of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Dow I apologize if I missed it in the prepared remarks but did you mention when you expect the announcement on the Brazilian tender? Yes.
Sometime in January or February.
Just a little more color on that February is Mardi Gras so we don't know if it will be before that or after that.
But as we get closer to it it's probably looking like it might come after.
The Ministry is telling us the date's in either January or February.
So that's what we know today.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just in terms of the X-ray business you've seen 2 very strong quarters of orders there after a more modest prior period.
When do we start to see these orders translate into sales? Oh this is a fairly short-cycle business so you already saw some of the effects in the first quarter where the X-ray sales were up 18% in Q1.
The orders were up 21%.
So it just tends to be particularly on the tube side very short-cycle business with orders and sales typically in the same quarter.
Flat panel we can build a backlog going out 1 to 2 quarters.
That's much different than the oncology business.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then one last one for me.
Was there any update on the $80 million per ton order from Emory? No.
We are waiting until -- Maryland and Emory we have signed contracts with both but we will not actually book those deals into backlog until their financing is complete.
In the second quarter it is the Saudi proton project that we expect to commence.
And then in the third or fourth quarter we are assuming that the Maryland financing will be done and that we will be able to book a significant amount of revenue under that project in the second half.
Our next question is from Jason Wittes of Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> First you did mention there perhaps was some slowdown due to fiscal cliff discussions though it sounded like it was negligible in terms of measurement.
But the $1 billion that you did get was -- at least I think for Varian was that the Gamma Knife product reimbursement got cut.
I understand they don't sell that many systems into the U.S.
at this point but they do have quite a few -- quite a big install base.
Are you hearing from customers that perhaps they are looking to upgrade from a Gamma Knife at this point now that the reimbursement just isn't quite as attractive as it used to be? Our customers were not -- as you stated our customers are not impacted by the reimbursement cut.
One of the things it does is it levels the playing field in stereotactic radiosurgery.
So we're excited about that.
There's a lot of clinical evidence out there that results from Linac-based SRS and cobalt-based SRS are the same.
Also we think this is the government being responsible with -- a cost comparative effectiveness.
So we think EDGE is a game changer in the lung.
That's what our customers are looking for as kind of growth into the future.
The Gamma Knife as you know can't do body radiosurgery.
And I think as the big trends move to lung and liver we're very well positioned.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Elisha if I heard you correctly you've mentioned that you were going to be able to -- I may have heard this incorrectly but did you say that you were going to be able to book some profits from proton this year or is that -- or did I mishear you? There will be some gross profit at the again very low level of 12% 15%.
But on an operating basis it is still significantly dilutive to the company.
Research Division</strong> But I guess -- my understanding of the accounting was once you kind of had an understanding what the profitability was you could actually start booking revenues with some profit -- with some gross profit.
And it sounds like you're at that point at this point.
Correct.
So Scripps because it was our first and we couldn't accurately estimate our costs along the way we deferred any profit until the end of the contract and there won't be much profit being the very first one.
We are now going to revert to a more typical contract accounting on future deals where we will take a percentage of the revenue and a percentage of the cost.
And again on -- as we've always said Jason on the first few of these is that very very low gross margin.
There was a lot of startup costs built into these first few Cyclotrons.
So the hope is that as we go forward it will get a little better.
But these first few are not going to be high margins.
Our next question is from Amit Hazan of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question just on service gross margin.
I'm wondering if you can confirm what that was in the quarter.
And also just kind of thinking about the strong growth it's had in recent years and now that TrueBeam is coming into service to what extent should that continue to move higher? Sure.
Well we don't break it out in that level of granularity Amit.
But I will tell you that the service gross margin continues to be roughly 50%.
I mean it is a very nice product line with a nice recurring revenue stream at high margins.
The TrueBeam yes as it continues to be a higher take rate that is a positive on the gross margin.
It was offset somewhat by the geographic mix where it was 3 percentage points higher into international markets as opposed to North America.
So you just take all of those things together it can really drive margin a couple of points in any given quarter.
And just a comment on TrueBeam.
Yes from a -- it grows our installed base we get better service contract pricing that's all favorable.
We have just to update you 690 orders plus orders to date.
380 of those are installed or being installed.
It did represent about half of our high-energy machines in the first quarter.
And we did want to announce today that in keeping with our practice we'll stop reporting this number as TrueBeam is now kind of the business and is an established product.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And just a quick question on guidance.
If I look at kind of the revenues for the second half there third a bit back-end loaded compared to maybe looking at the last 2 years.
Not much but just a little bit.
I'm just wondering if that's tied to the proton contribution or anything else.
All right.
Yes it is where a significant part of the proton revenue will come in the second half.
And if you exclude the -- well it's 1 point or 2 increase in the revenue line for the protons.
And for Oncology when you run your numbers you'll see that it's relatively low sales growth in the second quarter and that's really just because that we had a very strong comp in the year-ago quarter.
And it's just based on customer expected delivery dates.
So you really just look at the year with Oncology up in the 5% 6% range and X-ray in the low teens and the balance of that really being the proton business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally kind of just a broader question.
We're obviously seeing a lot of rather significant declines in prostate cancer treatments in the new PSA guidelines begin.
And I'm wondering if you guys view that as something that over time affects your customers from either an ROI standpoint or capacity standpoint where it could then indirectly impact you over time or is prostate just too small in the scheme of things to really have that effect? A I do think it is small; B we have lost some share over the last half a dozen years to robotic prostatectomy.
And C our argument is the best prostate treatment that you can get is with external beam radiation therapy.
And we think that some of the new techniques for nerve sparing our technology with spacers and our Linacs really present opportunities for us to get toxicity reduction.
The results frankly are -- we can all do a very good job at treating prostate cancer.
And the question is toxicity elimination.
There may be -- some of the watchful waiting may have some short-term impact.
The patients will eventually come back in if their PSA scores elevate and now they'll come back into the system.
But I think at this point it's really kind of becoming a toxicity argument.
And I think we've got some very good things to show the world as we kind of do the clinical work and show the impact of these new capabilities.
Our next question is from David Roman of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Elisha in your prepared remarks I know you elaborated a little bit on the call regarding the recognition of the proton revenue from Scripps.
I think you said $20 million in the second fiscal quarter is very low margin.
Can you maybe just help us think about the longer-term impact of when that term is profitable? And then should we look at Scripps as a good analog for how the profitability of these follow-on projects might be phased in? No I think there was just a lot of learning that went into Scripps.
And as they -- as we are booking this again Scripps today is at a zero margin and any profit will not be recorded until we get to the very end of the installation and acceptance.
The $20 million of revenue in Q2 is mostly associated with we will begin the project for our Saudi proton project.
And so we will identify components specific to that project and there will be roughly $15 million or so of revenue that we're anticipating that we can book in the second quarter.
As we've said David these proton projects in the early years are at very very low margins.
It continues to be dilutive to the total business.
We believe in the future of this technology and we are making an investment to about 5% of our total EBIT dollar.
Not going to say exactly when this is going to turn profitable but suffice it to say it -- we're at least 18 to 24 months out.
But we will start to make progress.
And as we get new deals and as we start to book revenue that dilution number should start trending down.
And that is what we're committed to here.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then obviously one of your very very smaller competitors announced fairly disappointing results this quarter.
Maybe you could just sort of update us on your latest thoughts about the competitive dynamics particularly in the U.S.? I mean is this really turning into a 2-player race? And then I guess you also didn't comment too much on any benefit from the Siemens software partnership but I think we're now enough time into that where you might be seeing some benefit.
Maybe just beginning with the last point the Siemens software we did introduce to the market at ASTRO shipments will happen in our third quarter.
So it'll really be from a kind of P&amp;L point of view it'll be a second half impact and we expect it to be small.
The overall competitive environment I think that our Accuray introduced a number of new products at ASTRO what we kind of hear is they appear to be slipping with those product introductions.
It happens to coincide with a very good introduction from us on EDGE and so I think you got a combination of maybe some execution issues on their side with a really good product introduction on our side.
So we're confident that we can make an impact in that market with our new EDGE product.
And our final question comes from Anthony Petrone of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'll begin one with X-ray and then a couple on Oncology.
Dow can you walk us through just the tailwind in the X-ray business that you mentioned in your prepared remarks as being driven by CT demand? Just how long will that kind of cycle last? And is there more room for share gains that -- similar to what you witnessed this quarter? It's a combination of a couple of things.
Our largest customer had a very good quarter.
That's Toshiba in that business and we believe that they picked up some share gains.
Frankly that's been a long-term trend.
When you look at the last 4 5 years they have been growing their share.
We'd like to hope that our CT tube is part of that and we can keep growing that.
We also had some nice growth from other CT manufacturers.
As well we had introduced a number of products probably I'd say 8 or 9 new products last year.
And it takes a while to get those spec'd in.
Some of those were panels some of those were tubes.
We started to see some traction at last on those new products and we had some volume especially in rad panels radiographic panels that drove some growth there as well as really starting to see some traction from our InfiMed acquisition.
So I think it's kind of broad-based yes when it happens in the CT business the pickup is always a little bit faster.
But we really like the prospects in this business.
And to be fair I think it is over a relatively easy comp in the first half of last year the X-ray Products business really started to turn around in Q4 of last fiscal year but they are solidly on track for this year.
Yes.
And let me say that...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is it fair...
Yes let's do that one more time.
Sorry.
The -- clearly the trend here is all about digital imaging and that's really the big driver.
That's the macro driver of this business and that trend is going to -- that's a multi-year trend.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is it fair to look at the relation from bookings to revenue on a sequential basis you had 15% growth in bookings last quarter that resulted in an 18% revenue growth this quarter.
And sure you have to normalize it for the weak quarter.
But is the cycle enough to sustain perhaps mid-double-digit revenue growth if we can continue to see bookings to the tune that we saw this quarter which was 21%? Well yes.
I mean this business tends to be a little more linear than the Oncology business.
With that said the fourth quarter tends to always be the biggest.
But as I mentioned earlier we're expecting low teens sales growth for the X-ray Products segment this year.
So it's -- driven largely by the new products that Dow mentioned.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then on to Oncology.
The Siemens relationship will extend to North America this quarter and it's been in place for little over a year now in Europe.
And I'm wondering in relation to the lumpiness of orders in Europe specifically and how that plays with Siemens specifically the 20% growth last quarter and then we've had a decline this quarter I mean do you expect similar lumpiness as that relationship extends into North America? I guess the short version would be we always expect lumpiness.
I'm not sure how much of it Siemens is a factor in.
We have -- as we've kind of said before we like to look at trends on a little bit longer-term basis.
It's pretty tough to get a crystal ball of what's going on by just looking through the lens of a quarter.
And I'm not sure that the Siemens relationship helps or hurts that in any one direction.
Certainly at this point it's too early to tell.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Helpful.
And last one for me is you mentioned Brazil and timing on that.
I'm wondering if there's any preliminary thoughts on pricing on that contract? And is it in line with other emerging markets? Is it similar to perhaps that gross margin discount that you spoke to Elisha when you compare say Japan to an emerging market is that similar in Brazil or should we expect something different there? Let's just say you're not going to like the growth margin in Brazil.
As Dow said you're going to...
Groan any way you look at it.
Yes you're not going to be happy if we lose and you might not be happy if we win given that this is a reverse auction.
However we're looking at this over the lifetime.
This is growing and developing a market looking at it over the life of the equipment with the service contracts with the upgrade opportunity that it presents.
But it will not be at the Oncology average gross margin is my expectation.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is it fair to say the service margin as well is much lower or should we expect a normal service margin should Varian win the contract? I'm anticipating it will be lower as well.
That is all the time we have for questions.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Sias for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
Thank you all for participating.
A replay of this call can be heard on the Varian investor website at www.varian.com/investor where it will be archived for a year.
To hear a telephone replay please dial 1 (877) 660-6853 from inside the U.S.
or 1 (201) 612-7415 from outside the U.S.
and enter in confirmation code number 406360.
The telephone replay will be available through 5 p.m.
this Friday January 25.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Varian Medical Systems Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Spencer Sias for Varian Medical Systems.
Thank you.
Mr.
Sias you may begin.
Thank you very much.
Good afternoon and welcome to Varian Medical Systems conference call for the second quarter of fiscal year 2013.
With me are Dow Wilson President and CEO; Elisha Finney CFO; and Clarence Verhoef our Corporate Controller.
Dow and Elisha will summarize our results and will take your questions following the presentation.
To simplify our discussion unless otherwise stated all references to the quarter or year are fiscal quarters and fiscal years.
Quarterly comparisons are for the second quarter of fiscal 2013 versus the second quarter of fiscal 2012.
Please be advised that this presentation and discussion contains forward-looking statements.
Our use of words and phrases such as outlook could should believe can estimate will looks plan and similar expressions are intended to identify those statements which represent our current judgment on future performance or other future matters.
While we believe them to be reasonable based on information currently available to us these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of the important risks relating to our business are described in our second quarter earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements in this presentation and discussion because of new information future events or otherwise.
And now here's Dow.
Good afternoon and welcome everyone.
Varian's revenues and net earnings continue to grow during the second quarter in line with our expectations for the company.
Net orders on the other hand were mixed with strong growth in our X-ray Products business and the decline in our Oncology business.
To quickly summarize our results revenues rose 7% to $768 million.
Our gross and operating margins improved.
Earnings per diluted share increased 9% to $1.02 and our backlog grew 4% over the year-ago quarter to $2.8 billion.
Net orders fell by 2% and Oncology Systems grew by 10% in X-ray Products and declined by $131 million in the Other category versus the year-ago period when we booked orders for 2 Proton Therapy Systems in Saudi Arabia and Russia.
I will cover the operational highlights for the quarter and let Elisha walk you through the details of the P&amp;L and balance sheet.
A 9% decline in North American Oncology Systems net orders offset the 4% increase across markets outside North America leading to an overall 2% decline in net orders which totaled $555 million for the quarter.
The North American oncology market is experiencing slower capital spending related to ongoing uncertainty regarding health care reform and potential reimbursement changes.
For example many of our customers appear to be focused on developing new partnerships across clinical specialties to prepare for operating in an Accountable Care Organization or ACO environment and the possibility of bundled payments for cancer therapy services as well.
We're also seeing some continuing consolidation activity among hospitals and clinics which may be contributing to purchasing delays.
The U.S.
market uncertainty will likely extend in the next fiscal year.
However for the long-term we believe a transition to our ACO environment could lead to renewed investments in more advanced and cost-efficient clinical capability to support outcome-driven standards of care and pay-per-performance.
Radiotherapy and radiosurgery are among the least invasive and most cost-effective ways of treating cancer and Varian's technology and product portfolio fits this scenario to a T.
During the period of uncertainty and transition in the U.S.
we expect bigger variations in net orders from quarter-to-quarter.
A host of factors including deal size timing and changing purchasing processes will contribute to this increased variability.
Net orders in our EMEA region rose by 4%.
While Western Europe continues to be impacted by austerity and recession in several countries we received sizable equipment orders from customers in Russia South Africa Switzerland and the United Kingdom during the quarter.
We also saw the first TrueBeam systems installed in South Africa and Bangladesh.
Emerging markets are driving growth and the BRIC countries in particular grew product orders by nearly 20%.
An example of our strength in these markets is in Russia where we have nearly doubled our order volume year-to-date.
Among the highlights in the second quarter was a large order for multiple linear accelerators including a TrueBeam that will be installed in several Russian hospitals.
We booked our first orders for the new EDGE radiosurgery system during the quarter and several other customers ordered EDGE radiosurgery upgrades accessories and software for their existing treatment machines.
Customer interest in this technology is high and the sales funnel for our radiosurgery solution looks solid.
We hope to receive CE Mark to sell EDGE in Europe later this year.
This month we are celebrating the shipment of our 500th TrueBeam.
This is the fastest adoption of any treatment machine in the history of radiation oncology.
Today TrueBeam represents nearly 60% of our high-energy machine orders and the average pricing on this system remains stable even with the shift to markets outside of North America.
Our service business remains a growth driver as we continued to see a high-contact capture rate.
Net orders were up by 8% for the quarter and 10% year-to-date.
Customers globally are recognizing the value of comprehensive service and software contracts.
We expect to sustain growth in service as more than 300 TrueBeams move out of warranty in the next 18 months.
Our Siemens partnership is making good progress.
We now have the software complete to enable connectivity with about 80% of the Siemens installed base.
The first clinical treatment using a Siemens accelerator and Varian's ARIA software took place this month.
The auctions to equip public cancer centers in Brazil with more than 80 treatment machines is now set for the end of June.
Meanwhile business continued normally in Brazil where we received orders for 3 TrueBeams and a UNIQUE system during the quarter.
I'd like to take a moment to call your attention to some new clinical studies that demonstrate recent advances made in radiotherapy and radiosurgery.
In March the International Journal of Radiation Oncology Biology and Physics published a paper on follow-up prostate research involving 1 002 patients treated from August 2007 until December 2008 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
The paper shows that IMRT makes it possible to deliver higher doses to the prostate without increasing normal tissue complications.
By escalating those to the prostate investigators demonstrated excellent biochemical control rates without incurring higher toxicity.
Another article published in April issue of Cancer [ph] on a study of 112 000 breast cancer patients between 1990 and 2004 showed breast-conserving therapy including a lumpectomy and radiotherapy had improved survival compared with mastectomy.
Finally an online article in the Red Journal on research into stereotactic radiosurgery for inoperable liver metastases reported promising findings in a Phase II prospective study of 61 patients between February 2010 and September of 2011.
Researchers at the Oncology Institute of Southern Switzerland achieved a 94% 1-year local control rate with acceptable toxicity using radiosurgery.
These findings warrant further investigation and may someday lead to an ultimate treatment option for liver metastasis.
The big picture in all this is that significant clinical research in radiotherapy and radiosurgery continues to advance in existing and new cancer indications.
Before leaving Oncology Systems let me recap our long-term view of the market.
As noted earlier we believe the U.S.
market will exhibit a high degree of variability.
Growth in EMEA is expected to be mixed with stronger growth in Eastern Europe the Middle East Africa and India offset by lower growth in Southern Europe.
The outlook for Asia Latin America and the Rest of World remains robust.
Overall we believe the longer-term global market will continue to grow on average in the mid- single-digit range.
Turning to X-ray Products this business had another good quarter.
Net orders for X-Ray grew by 10% during the quarter to $144 million.
Revenues grew by 14% to $140 million and the X-ray team managed to improve its operating margin despite pricing pressure in the flat panel business.
New products in our X-ray tube and flat panel lines helped to drive the growth.
The tube business grew with the help of strong demand for CT tubes including our newest high-performance CT tube.
The tube business is benefiting from the performance of its main customers Toshiba which continues to do well in the tough diagnostic imaging market.
We began delivering our new series of panels for high-resolution low-dose imaging in radiographic and dynamic applications.
Our new wireless panel is now being designed as the next-generation systems for portable radiography.
Some customers are reporting that these more sensitive panels may help them to reduce the X-ray dose to the patient by more than 20% without any loss in image quality.
Customer interest in our new panel and workstation packages increased during the quarter.
Several customers are seeking integrated imaging solutions that shorten the development time it takes to get their new products to market.
With new products gaining momentum good growth prospects for panel workstation packages and an ongoing conversion to digital imaging our outlook for the X-ray Products business remains bullish.
Net orders for the Other category were $37 million for the quarter versus $168 million in the year-ago quarter when we booked $124 million in Proton orders for our systems in Saudi Arabia and Russia.
Second quarter revenues for the Other category were $46 million compared with $32 million in the year-ago quarter.
We did not book any new orders for Proton installations during the quarter but the pipeline continues to look good.
We are on track with the Scripps installation where the first patient treatment is slated to begin in September.
Construction is continuing on the center at the University of Maryland and we are hopeful that financing will be complete and an order booked before the end of the fiscal year.
Meanwhile construction is expected to begin soon on a new center at Emory University in Georgia and the financing works needed to book this order is underway.
We will be at the groundbreaking ceremony there next week.
Net orders in our Security business were down versus a very strong year-ago quarter.
This business grew revenues by more than 50% in the quarter.
We've now refocused our Security business R&amp;D efforts on new components to address currently underserved markets and we're aiming to introduce more compact industrial linear accelerators as well as a new class of panels able to support megavoltage imaging systems.
Now here's Elisha.
Thanks Dow and hello everyone.
While Dow has already covered net orders I want to briefly talk about the constant currency growth rates for the quarter.
In comparing quarter-over-quarter exchange rate there was a significant effect from the weakening of the yen and a small effect from the weakening of the euro and other currencies.
Oncology net orders declined 2% in dollars and were flat in constant currency.
Oncology's North American net orders were down 9% in dollars.
EMEA's net orders increased 4% in dollars and 5% in constant currency and Asia where we saw a roughly 15% weakening of the yen was flat in dollars but up 7% in constant currency.
Oncology net orders in Rest of World region grew by 16% in dollars and 17% in constant currency.
Second quarter revenues for the total company increased 7% in dollars and 8% in constant currency.
As expected Oncology Systems posted a 3% increase in revenue during the quarter with 56% coming from outside North America.
Oncology revenues were particularly strong in Asia as well as in Africa and the Middle East.
X-ray Products posted a gain of 14% with double digit growth in both tubes and panel.
Revenues from businesses under the Other category increased by 43%.
We recorded $20 million of Proton revenue as a percentage of completion accounting commenced for both the Saudi and Russia as projects.
While I'm talking about Proton let me remind you that we are expecting about $80 million in Proton revenue with roughly a 10% to 12% gross margin for the year.
Our Proton revenue and margin expectations for the year assumed that financing for the University of Maryland project will be completed in our fourth quarter and that we will then be able to book about $40 million in revenue for this project.
Returning to the P&amp;L.
The second quarter gross margin for the company increased 40 basis points to 41.6%.
Oncology Systems gross margin improved by 60 basis points to 42.8% even including the $2 million or 30-basis-point impact of the excise tax.
This gain was primarily due to a product mix that included a higher proportion of service and TrueBeam revenue.
X-ray Products gross profit dollars increased by 13% driven by volume gains in both tube and panel businesses.
The gross margin rate however fell by 0.5 point to 42.5% from the year-ago quarter principally because of pricing pressure in the panel business partially offset by volume and productivity gains in both tubes and panels.
Second quarter SG&amp;A expenses were $113 million or 15% of revenues essentially even as a percentage of revenue from the year-ago quarter.
These included the previously announced $2.5 million restructuring charge to complete our enhanced retirement program.
Second quarter R&amp;D expenses were $51 million or 7% of revenues also about even as a percentage of revenue with the year-ago quarter.
Moving down the income statement.
Second quarter operating earnings totaled $156 million up 8% from the year-ago quarter in dollars and up 30 basis points to 20.3% of revenues.
The restructuring charge and excise tax together reduced our operating margin by about 1 point for the quarter.
Depreciation and amortization totaled $16 million for the quarter.
The effective tax rate was 27.9% for the quarter.
And for the second half we estimate that the tax rate will be about 28% to 29%.
Fully diluted shares outstanding decreased significantly from the year-ago quarter to $110.7 million due largely to our ongoing share repurchase program.
Including the $0.03 impact from the restructuring charge and excise tax and roughly a $0.02 impact from the weakened yen diluted EPS rose 9% to $1.02.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $740 million debt of $238 million and stockholder's equity of $1.6 billion.
DSO increased by 4 days from the year-ago quarter to 87 including a 5-day impact from the Proton therapy business and reflecting a continued shift to international delivery.
Second quarter cash flow from operations was $31 million as net income was more than offset by working capital changes.
Year-to-date cash flow from operations was $103 million.
Primary uses of cash were $90 million toward the repurchase of 1.4 million shares of stock.
At the end of the quarter we have 5 million shares remaining under the existing repurchase authorization.
Now I'll turn it back to Dow for the outlook.
Thanks Elisha.
The company remains on track for achieving its fiscal 2013 growth targets.
For the third quarter of fiscal year 2013 total company revenues could increase by about 7% over the prior year quarter.
Net earnings per diluted share for the third quarter should be in the range of $0.98 to $1.02.
For the fiscal year we continue to believe that total company revenues could increase by about 8% over the prior fiscal year and that net earnings per diluted share for the fiscal year could be in the range of $4.09 to $4.14.
We're now ready for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Amit Hazan with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I think going straight to the orders where I think a lot of people will focus you talked about a lot of things.
What would probably surprised me the most is your referencing of ACOs and bundling -- I mean ACOs I think there's probably like 500 of them now.
And so I'm kind of wondering with regard to that if you're seeing radiation therapy for some reason is seeing more of the hospital systems that are going to ACOs that also have radiation oncology clinics inside of them why you'd reference that at this point in such a pretty small number relative to the number of hospitals in the U.S.
And then bundling as well if you could just talk about whether you're referencing freestanding centers or whether you're thinking that that could impact the hospital setting outpatient setting as well.
I think the overall message about U.S.
market should be one of uncertainty.
There's just a lot of -- people don't know exactly what they're shooting at in the market continued rumors of reform and reimbursement and where it's going to go.
We do see especially on freestanding side people lining up with other cancer services so that they can offer a bundled cancer therapy offering.
And so I think that's where we're seeing some of that kind of pause on that side of the market.
The software market is still solid.
We're seeing pressure on folks to replace product so that they can have stereotactic radiosurgery and stereotactic body radiation therapy capability.
Our funnel looks good but we've definitely seen kind of a transition in the market.
You kind of look back.
Last 4 quarters we've had 1 very good quarter 1 outstanding quarter and 2 not-so-good quarters and that's a little bit of the reflection of I think what we're seeing in the U.S.
market.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay then maybe let me ask a question in terms of reimbursement and then just going into the next round here what's your understanding of where CMS might be in terms of the hospital outpatient setting? And maybe separately just talk about whether you expect kind of the ASTRO reimbursement proposal to play out in the freestanding side? I think the -- clearly the ASTRO coding proposal is going to have to go before the American Medical Association and their CPT Panel.
We do expect modifications in that [ph] and don't have a lot of visibility on which way that is going to go.
We do not expect significant reductions in the freestanding center reimbursements and thinks that -- I think that that will probably maintain.
Our next question comes from the line of Amit Bhalla with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Dow I just wanted to just dig into North America the minus 9% order growth.
Can you just give us a better sense of software and service versus like linear accelerators? Were all 3 of those areas down or was there any pockets of strength in North America? Service remained very good.
And as I mentioned in the call we're bullish about where that goes both in North America and long term interesting little highlight there.
I think I said in the call that we have 300 TrueBeams coming out of warranty over the next 18 months.
That's one per working day and that's a big contract opportunity for us as we look out the next 18 months.
Software was okay.
And clearly it was the hardware market that was softest in North America.
Research Division</strong> And Dow when you talk about the overall radiation oncology market you said it's a kind of mid-single-digit growth market.
I think last time around you said mid to high so there clearly is some slowing.
The tube -- the first half of this year has seen the oncology orders decline roughly 2%.
So as we look out to 2014 are we looking at the potential for revenue to be down next year? We'll give guidance later.
But as we said we think the market is in the mid-single range.
Last 2 quarters are that down 2%.
Fourth quarter was a strong double-digit performance.
Just going around the horn as I mentioned we still see a very good funnel in North America.
And so it will be interesting to see what happens here in the second half in North America.
Europe is mixed.
Central Europe Germany France have been very strong for us.
The U.K.
has been strong.
Southern Europe is very very quiet.
So Italy Spain Portugal Greece kind of the usual culprits there have been very very quiet.
So we think that's going to be kind of mixed.
We still see Asia as very strong.
Orders do take about 1 year to translate into the P&amp;L.
So it's going to be really a second-half discussion.
Elisha you got -- Yes Amit I would just that total company backlog is up 4% but if you just look at the oncology backlog quarter-over-quarter it was up 6% which is right in line with the 5% to 6% that oncology that is going to grow revenues this year.
Obviously not much services in backlog and that's growing at a faster clip.
So again not guidance into FY '14 but I think it kind of sets us up for the next 12 months that we do have backlog to support mid-single digit growth as we sit here today.
Research Division</strong> And Elisha just a quick one on expense cuts.
I mean you are -- you did a little restructuring.
How much room do you still have for the back half of the year for reducing the expenses if needed? For the full fiscal year we've got $6.5 million of restructuring that's built into these numbers.
We've got excise tax.
We've got negative impact on the yen.
In all of that said we're still going to see a relatively flat year-over-year operating margin.
So I think from an expense perspective with all of those things built in it's a huge win for FY '13 that we can have a flat operating margin year-over-year and I think sets us up pretty well going into next year.
But again we'll give guidance on next year when we get to the end of this fiscal year.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Petrone with Jefferies Group.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Couple for Dow and then a couple gross margin questions for Elisha.
First on the guidance.
Dow if we look at the third quarter guidance you put up 7% growth for the top line.
By my math if you run that through you need about 9.5% to 10% growth to come in at the 8% range for the year.
So the comments on North America were a little apprehensive.
I'm wondering where that fourth quarter confidence comes from if we look at Oncology X-ray and perhaps Proton? Yes let me take a stab at that one.
It really is reflective of the Proton business which is going to grow significantly in the second half versus the first half.
So if I look at third quarter the guidance on sales up about 7% when you compare that to the full year you can do the math and deduct that we have to have a double-digit revenue growth in Q4.
And really a significant piece of that is coming from the Proton business where again we expect that we will get the financing completed on the Maryland deal and be able to take close to $50 million of revenue in Q4 in our Proton therapy business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And was that a change also in the expectation? You actually realized some profitability on that and I thought there was no expectation for any profits this year? Well the good news is for the first few of these they were booked at a 0 margin.
So of course Scripps is under the percentage of completion.
We're deferring any profit until we get to the very end.
Saudi Russia a little bit but by the time you put all of this together for this fiscal year our expectation is that the gross profit on that total $80 million or so should be in the 10% to 12% range.
So again significantly below the company margin level but starting to contribute some dollars.
And again that's at the gross margin level.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> To stay on gross margin for a second Elisha you spoke about pricing pressure in the panel business.
Can you just elaborate there on how extensive that was in the quarter and if you expect that to continue? Yes.
So let me just kind of back up and say for the full fiscal year we still expect that X-ray is going to be in the 42% to 43% growth margin range.
Just as a data point if you look back 3 years ago they were at 40%.
So this panel business carries higher margins than the tube.
It's been growing at a much faster pace than the tube.
So I think just the reflection of a product line that is maturing and is becoming more mainstream although I think Spencer would still tell you we're only in the third and fourth inning in terms of adoption of digital imaging.
But we're just seeing some normal pricing pressure associated with that but this is a highly profitable product line and as it continues to grow faster than tubes I think it's going to -- the X-ray segment should continue to be able to hold that margin level.
Yes just as an aside for that business last year we made 3 000 (sic) [10 000] panels and this year we'll make about 13 000 panels.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that helps.
Last one for me.
I'll hop back in.
Dow you mentioned a lot about the North American market.
One of the things you mentioned was consolidation perhaps of freestanding clinics into hospitals.
How many of your freestanding customers do you believe are actually in discussions to be acquired? And sort of how long do you think this consolidation phase takes to unfold? All right.
I think we're seeing 2 things in that.
Let me just emphasize what I said in the call.
I think what -- the consolidation that we're seeing first of all is people trying to round out their product basket to make sure they can compete in a bundled pricing environment whether that's ACO or bundled reimbursements or whatever it might be.
So the -- I'd say that's probably the leading trend at this point in time.
We are seeing some consolidation.
We've tried to quantify it.
I can say that inside we don't have any real current data.
We're scratching at that pretty hard.
We are seeing some consolidation.
I think the bigs are all very comfortable.
When you look at US Oncology 21st Century Vantage kind of customers which probably represents the majority of this market.
They're evaluating investment opportunities.
They see this as an opportunity to grow in this uncertainty.
And they certainly want to be consolidator not consolidatee as they go into this environment so they're not part of it.
And I made a mistake on the panel.
The panels are up 3 000.
It went from 10 000 to 13 000.
My math was bad.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Johnson with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> So sorry I've been jumping between calls here.
If I ask something that's already been asked just -- I'll go back to the transcript just tell me to do that instead.
But Dow I've heard some of the discussion on the U.S.
market.
I was wondering if you could touch on maybe your competitive positioning within the U.S.
market.
I see some -- I hear some of the broader issues maybe impacting all of market.
But your competitive positioning there obviously the MD Anderson news your competitors want to play that up as they got a couple of systems sold into there.
But you feel like you're gaining or losing share in the U.S.
market especially mine share maybe with some of your bigger customers? We think our market share in the U.S.
is actually up.
We -- when you kind of look -- we look at it 2 ways.
We look at it on both on orders basis and a trailing revenue basis.
Trailing revenue you've heard us talk about that before.
On a trailing revenue basis we think our market share is actually up a couple of points globally and probably even a little more than that in the U.S.
The -- there's always some puts and takes in the market as you mentioned.
But in the core of the market we're doing very very well.
TrueBeam continues to capture the imagination of our customers and it's winning a lot of market share.
Elekta has a new product.
It's clear it's no TrueBeam.
In fact really all it's done is narrow the gap to the Clinac iX and Trilogy product.
It can't match us for SRS SBRT capability for efficiency of delivering those [ph] for throughput for flattening filter free capability and for motion management.
It's still significantly behind.
So from a product positioning point of view we are very comfortable from a market share point of view.
Obviously we'll be looking at their year-end numbers to see how they do.
But when you look at the last 12 months of orders we think our share is going faster than theirs in the -- globally and in the U.S.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then just one last follow-up.
Just on the radiosurgery side a lot of discussion here over the last -- well more than just the last few weeks.
But it's been heightened over the last few weeks here as we think about what kind of impact that might have on system sales as we go to hypofractionation.
And I think long term we all see that could be a risk.
But in the near term meaning the next 2 3 4 5 years is that really an opportunity more of an upgrade opportunity and really to drive higher price systems and new technology into the market before we have to start worrying about volume declines on the Linac side? No absolutely.
I think in the short term this is going to drive an upgrade cycle for customers.
To be able to do SRS and SBRT with confidence you need image guidance you need very fast delivery time and you have to really know where that tumor is.
And you're going to want to do that on new technology.
So in the short term I think it's very positive news.
In the long term I also think it's very good news because it brings more patients from other cancer therapies into radiation.
And I think it's a win in that way in the long term as well.
So I kind of view it as good news and good news.
Research Division</strong> Do you think Linac per million population all the different stats that we look at by country in that 5 years from now starts trending down not up? Or do you think because of the increased utilization across new indications that it could at least hold steady? I think for the next 5 years it's only going to go in one direction and that's up.
There's just so much need out there that it's going to go up.
Beyond that I think we're going to be talking about new applications in cancer and maybe even outside of cancer that can even drive more penetration of Linacs.
You've heard us say before that just to get the Rest of the World to kind of the Europe standard for Linacs per million people we need 10 000 new Linacs which is basically a doubling of the global installed base.
Now for the long term when you look at the horizon here and look at the long term we're still very comfortable where this is going.
There's lots of opportunity and very confident about where we're headed.
Our next question comes from the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just to follow up on your previous comments regarding sort of the long-term growth rate of the business and maybe just to ground us.
Can you just remind us how big emerging market are as a percentage of your sales today? Emerging markets today are about 10%.
And as I said they grew this last quarter about 20% and that's just going to keep picking up.
This last quarter in orders our o U.S.
business was 58% of the quarter which -- that's -- have we done bigger than that before? That's got to be pretty close to a high watermark for us.
That's a high watermark.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when I think about the growth rate is it too simplistic to say the your 90% of the business in developed markets kind of paces along at a low single-digit rate maybe consistent with where health care spending is growing or hospital CapEx.
And then you're dependent really on that emerging markets bogey continuing to grow at that rate.
Is that how we should think about the aggregate top line growth rate and that will sort of get you to a mid-single-digit type number? Obviously below where you've been historically but somewhat consistent with where the industry is going.
From geographic point of view as I said we see the global market in kind of this mid-single-digit range which is going to be made up of a tough and lumpy environment in North America.
Developed Europe is going to be kind of tale of 2 cities.
There's going to be those economies that are strong.
And I think we'll see them grow at mid- to single-high digit kind of growth.
And then Southern Europe is going to be de nada (sic) [nada] for a while I think until credit crises get solved.
We had a huge performance in Africa.
We haven't talked about Africa much.
I think you'll hear as talk more and more about Africa.
India China Brazil will -- when you look at Asia Rest of World scenario it's going to be a double-digit growth scenario.
And then of course the piece we haven't talked about is service.
And the service business continues to be a double-digit grower for us.
Research Division</strong> And then my last question a similar topic just related to the operating margin and gross margin profile of that geographic mix.
I think one thing they came up last year that negatively surprised investors was the extent to which margins were negatively impacted by geographic mix last summer.
I mean have you gone to a point where either that stabilized or there are things you're doing with your cost structure that can maintain the profitability profile of the franchise even as the greater percentage of sales come from developing markets? Yes David.
And I think that's reflected in the quarter where you're absolutely right.
In the year-ago period we had a reset on the oncology gross margins.
For the half and for this Q2 it is absolutely in line with where we expect it to be.
If you were to take out the excise tax the margin would be up about 1 point to 43% and that's even with a 4-point shift in revenues to international deliveries during the quarter.
So I think the oncology team has done a great job of being on track with cost reduction and that we can hopefully be in that 43% to 44% as we go forward with the cost reductions offsetting this continued shift to international markets.
I also think service is obviously helping.
And if I were to look out over the next 5 years I think we're going to take service from call it a 30% of our total oncology business probably closer to 40% nice recurring revenue stream at a higher margin.
Yes and that's -- one of the things we get as we grow in these emerging markets is early on it's all about the equipment business.
And then as you grow you build the installed base and a good service and software business that goes with it.
So that will be a positive long-term upward pressure on margin rate.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeremy Feffer with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted -- on a bigger picture I mean Dow you've gone through all the headwinds here.
I think we're all pretty familiar.
What I'm wondering is and you can probably speak about it qualitatively but if you can talk a little bit about the impact on pricing because presumably we see customers that are delaying or lengthening replacement cycles.
You have new competition in there that I imagine is coming in at lower prices.
So to what extent is that going to play a role in your trying to drive order growth over time? I'd say so far as you heard me say share has held and the mix the TrueBeam is very positive.
So our customers want capability and that capability is around throughput stereotactic radiosurgery stereotactic body radiation therapy to do these new applications.
And as a result we're maintaining price on TrueBeam even given the geographic mix that went a little bit against us at least just looking back on the quarter we feel very good about that.
Obviously we're going to keep innovating.
Innovation is what drives price in this industry and we're going to keep working on new applications better outcome and productivity for our customers.
And at least historically when we've done that they've paid for those innovations.
So that's the strategy and what we're working on and at least so far that's -- we've seen stabilization in pricing.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Palmer with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Dow it sounds like the Brazil tender has been pushed back here multiple times.
How confident are you that a June decision comes to fruition? Not.
What we know right now is that they've announced the date.
I think they've issued a tender and that's -- so that's big progress.
They made -- they had issued a tender before.
They had some changes to make.
And so we do have a date for the reverse auction and right now that's the end of June.
And I'd say everything that we know at this point in time is that the Ministry of Health is driving this and it's going to happen.
Might it slip a week or 2?  There's always that possibility.
But given what we know today this auction date is supposed to happen end of June.
Now as to when orders get really placed they're going to complete their auction end of June when do we see purchase orders.
I think there's more uncertainty around that but the actual auction date and the Ministry of Health delivering on that timing is probably better than we've seen it -- the visibility on that's probability better than what we've seen at least so far in time.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then just staying on the topic of emerging markets.
You gave a great review earlier on your competitive position in the U.S.
So I wonder if you could provide a similar overview in emerging markets from a product-offering perspective? Sure.
I'd say we continue to do extremely well at the high end.
Depending on the market TrueBeam is at least 1/3 of even -- the most emerging of our emerging markets so we clearly do very very well there.
We are seeing uptake in UNIQUE.
So we had some good volume on the UNIQUE product here this quarter in the low-energy and fairly low-priced segment of the market.
I think customers are looking for products that have a lot of capability that have a high throughput; I was with a customer recently that was doing over 140 patients in a 24-hour day just really kind of staggering volume.
And that's not -- that volume is atypical.
But north of 80 patients a day is not unusual at all in these markets.
And so to do that with high reliability and image guidance and RapidArc is kind of what the market wants.
And I think our position is very good.
I think we -- in China we can probably enhance our coverage and our relationship with some key accounts better in China.
But I'm -- I think that's a little bit more about China's sales coverage and relationships than it is product.
I think we're pretty comfortable across the markets at each price point with where our position is at this point.
Research Division</strong> And then Elisha just one quick housekeeping question here and I apologize if you mentioned it.
What was the growth in product and services for the quarter in Oncology Systems? Make sure I understand the question.
So Oncology you're talking revenues were up 3% in the quarter with service revenues up about mid-teens in the quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Tycho Peterson with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back to David Roman's question earlier on the margins and I understand your answer on the gross margin.
But can you just talk a little bit about your willingness to show a little bit more of balance sheet -- middle of the balance sheet leverage? In other words is your cost structure in terms of sales and R&amp;D properly aligned with where the growth is coming from today? And is there a chance you can get back on a path to 22% to maybe 23% operating margins over time? So maybe just talk to the operating margin dynamic.
That's a tough question Tycho.
I mean the business is obviously going to change as we move forward into the coming months quarters years and we'll be looking at this.
I mean we have been committed to getting increasing leverage year-over-year.
We went from 11% at the time of the spin to 21%.
You're not going see anywhere anywhere close to that.
But if we can get 25 to 50 basis points I mean that's what we're striving for it's really going to be dependent on what kind of growth opportunities do we see both if we're looking internal at our organic growth opportunities as well as through our M&amp;A opportunities which most of those end up being dilutive in the short term.
It's going to come down to where we place our bets and where we think we can drive continued growth and where those investments need to be.
So I can't sit here today and absolute tell you we're going to that a 1 point improvement in the operating margin next year.
I will say that we are committed to growing the corporate cost slower than the top line.
We will likely continue to grow R&amp;D at least as fast as the top line growth and SG&amp;A is again is going to depend on where the opportunities are.
But I do think we've made a good effort at putting resources where the growth is and that was all part of this whole retirement restructuring that we announced and we'll continue to do that as we move forward.
Yes and as we said -- as we kind of said on the call too I think one of the big questions here is where the U.S.
market grow -- where does it go? And what we're seeing in our funnel right now suggests that it's going to be lumpy and a little bit crazy but funnel still looks very good.
And so as the U.S.
market remains stable I think it's a little bit challenging for us.
But if the U.S.
market declines then clearly we'll be -- we'll have an opportunity to reallocate more resources to our growth markets.
So I think we've got an important 6 to 9 months here to kind of watch where that U.S.
market goes and maybe do some rebalancing as we see where that market goes.
Research Division</strong> And then Elisha you mentioned M&amp;A.
Can you just talk a little bit about your capital allocation priorities? I mean as growth rates change over the years a little bit can you talk about how you're thinking about your capital allocation strategy the potential to -- I mean you've got a trapped cash problem so how do you think about repatriating or maybe levering up? Do you consider potential dividend at some point? Can you maybe just talk to some of these dynamics? Right.
So Tycho we have -- I mean we've done fairly limited M&amp;A over the last several years mostly tuck-in acquisitions.
And I think you should expect that we will continue that strategy going forward.
But nothing that I would sit here today and say it's going to be transformational.
Therefore the cash that we do generate and virtually every dollar plus some have been allocated to the share repurchase program over the last year.
And so we have taken on some short-term debt in the U.S.
We ended with our revolver of about $200 million as we completed our Q2 share repurchase.
Since that time the net debt is almost half of that.
So collections have been good.
We have been getting cash in.
So you should expect that we will continue to execute on the share repurchase program.
We do talk about dividends extensively.
We formally debate it probably every quarter.
We talk about it at the board level.
For us to do anything meaningful with the amount of cash we have trapped offshore it just -- it would not make sense and we would become a serial borrower at significantly higher rates if we were to go down that path.
So we have elected to do a share repurchase program and have consistently been in the market quarter in quarter out somewhere between 1 million and 2 million shares per quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then Dow to back your comment a minute ago on just the U.S.
market can you talk a little bit about any impact you've seen from watchful waiting in terms of impacting discussions around the installed base? In other words if hospitals have 5 Linacs are they going to replace 4 of them over time because of the prostate dynamic? I think for most of our customers it's anniversary-ed.
So I did notice that 21st Century in their quarterly report a couple of weeks ago pointed to prostate volume being down.
And we actually pinged the number of our other customers and they thought that their volumes to a year ago were roughly the same.
So I think for most of our customers that impact is already anniversary-ed.
And now people are actually -- a lot of our customers are seeing prostate volumes come back up with 3 treatments and surgical failures.
So I think there's -- there might be a few folks out there left who haven't seen the watchful waiting impact.
But I think most of our customer -- that report was published I want to say 1 year to 1.5 year ago and kind of found its way into the market.
So yes it's a little bit of -- there's a little bit of see me now see me later going on.
And maybe we do have some patients delaying and watching what happens to their PSA and other markers Gleason score and delaying but eventually they'll come to us.
So I'd say at least at this point that I have as many customers telling me that they're seeing prostate volume come back as I do saying that they're seeing a watchful waiting loss.
Research Division</strong> And then last quick one.
Can you talk on linearity in the quarter? Was March any different than January and February? Or any change post the ASTRO proposal? No I don't think so.
I think...
The third month is always the biggest just because it's 4 4 5 in terms of how we allocate the fiscal month.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Beuchaw with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Dow I wanted to dig in a little bit on your comments on ACOs.
As far as we know there's one oncology ACO in the U.S.
that's functioning right now.
But I guess a pretty large number maybe 40% of hospitals are participating in ACO's not necessarily oncology-specific in some way.
So I guess what I'm getting at is why now? Why is it that today and not 90 days ago were -- was this a factor? Is there something about these pilot projects that has people thinking this is going to become an issue a bigger issue and faster? Why now? Let me just say again that ACOs was 1 of 5 or 6 items in the list and not the main item.
So ACO is a factor.
I think what we're hearing from our customer base is in a lot of these reimbursement scenarios what they want to make sure is that they have a service offering that they can take to the payer and give the payer comprehensive cancer services.
So I think that's kind of the net impact of this.
Whether it's reimbursement bundled payments Accountable Care Organization pay-for-performance other quality measures that's the impact that we're seeing in the marketplace as it's causing our customers to really look to each other and what kind of partnerships they should be forming so that they can go to the payers with a full service capability.
I wouldn't want you to leave here today thinking ACOs is the be-all end-all or the end of the world.
It's one in a list of items that our customers are thinking about as they prepare for what frankly is uncertain in most of their minds about where it's going.
And I think it's kind of that uncertainty that most people are facing into.
They just don't know and frankly we don't either.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the comment that you made around capital spending in the U.S.
some of that's clearly tied to what's going on in D.C.
Why wouldn't there be a case for that to reverse in the capital spending environment in the U.S.
actually to get better over the course of the year as...
I think we've got into next fiscal years some uncertainty.
I mean in my own experience I've got some scars on my back from DRGs in the early '80s and Hillarycare in 1992.
And in both of those scenarios the market stalled for 12 to 18 months and then came roaring back with a vengeance.
And I think we're seeing a little bit of that here.
People are uncertain in the environment.
I don't think it's 1983 or 1992 but there's a lot of uncertainty out there.
The good news is there's a fleet of equipment in the U.S.
that's old and ready for replacements.
And there's a new clinical application new clinical applications plural that are a real reason to trade up.
So I think people are going through an uncertain time and that -- the midterm and long term look very very good.
I think we can talk about is that a 6-month impact or a 12-month impact and I don't really know but I think it is keeping our eye on the horizon.
We think it's optimistic.
Research Division</strong> And then just one housekeeping item.
On TrueBeam I'm sorry if I missed it but what was the number of TrueBeam orders in the quarter? I don't think we've...
I think I mentioned that we shipped out 500.
We -- in keeping with our practice we stopped reporting the number of TrueBeams since it's an established product.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Wittes with Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> Dow I think you gave a pretty succinct answer in terms of why TrueBeam is a more successful product than Versa is probably going to be.
But I can imagine there's still going to be some sort of account taking a look at those systems and therefore some delays.
Is that accounted for in your thinking for the rest of the year especially in North America? I think we've seen very little of that.
I'm -- it's their fourth quarter and they're out pushing the business hard and -- so this is -- in our fiscal second quarter there's a lot of activity going on because it's their fourth quarter.
And at least feedback from our team is Versa is not causing any delays.
It's the other things that we've been talking about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Proton is actually...
And let me just say one other item on that and that is Versa isn't new news.
We've been competing with this thing for -- yes they formally introduced it at ASTRO or whenever it was but this thing has been out there in the marketplace for in one way or another for some time.
So at least from my kind of a market point of view this is kind of old news.
Research Division</strong> Okay very fair point.
Also just want to switch gears.
Proton's actually going to be somewhat contributive to the bottom line this quarter.
Elisha I think you said you're going to assume there's going to be about a 10% to 20% margin on that business or gross margin in the business? Gross margin.
But it is not contributing to the bottom line.
It is still dilutive and will be for the remainder of this year and next year most likely.
So just want to be real clear it's just contributing growth profit dollars that are more than the 0 on the Scripps scale.
It's just a contribution margin level not at the bottom line level.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And could you quantitate what is the impact to EPS is on -- from Proton? Because traditionally it's been about a 10% to 15% hit per year.
Is that still the case in 2013? It's about -- I think we said about $0.15 and that is still the case.
Research Division</strong> And then just -- the other thing about Proton.
I mean it's starting to -- obviously you're starting to book revenues and even some modest profits here although again not enough to offset the dilution.
But last year you seemed like you were on a pretty good clip announcing quite a few contract wins.
This year I have -- other than the Maryland ones which I think has been in your pipeline but not fully funded yet I haven't really heard that much.
What's the outlook for Proton this year in terms of potential orders and what's sort of the pipeline look like in terms of potential orders? As I mentioned on the call we are aiming for a couple of orders.
The pipeline looks pretty good.
We think by end of the year we should have a couple of orders in the order book.
Maryland will be one of those and then one other one.
There's a number of prospects in that funnel.
It's always about financing and -- as we have a pretty good idea who those prospects are.
In some cases we're kind of selected as vendor of choice.
I think I mentioned we're headed off to Emory for the groundbreaking actually where we've been selected as vendor of choice.
But we will not book that order until their financing is complete.
And that one is probably not a this-year scenario.
It's probably next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last Proton question.
Some of your competitors they don't have them operating yet but they have been selling single-room centers.
It seems like the marketplace has a fair level -- a higher level demand for the single rooms versus the large sort of $200 million centers.
Is Varian working on a single room center? Or can we expect any kind of announcement on that in the near term? We do have a single room product today.
It's a little more expensive but it works.
And we also -- with the Cyclotron we have the most economic position for folks to be in is in a multiple gantry facility.
Now obviously they have to have the patient volume for that and it gets a little more expensive but we have a nice economic price point for 2-room 2-gantry center and I think are pretty well positioned in this marketplace.
Frankly I think right now in Proton the game is all about credibility.
We haven't done a patient yet.
We're going to do our first patients late this summer August September timeframe.
Other competitors in the marketplace have sold a lot of PowerPoint and are waiting to do their first patients as well.
So I think the market is very much waiting to kind of see what happens.
Do these systems come up? Do they deliver dose [ph] and get good curative intent and get cured for patients? And there's a lot of folks out there just kind of watching.
And I think that's probably the biggest factor right now.
Our next question comes from the line of Toby Wann with Obsidian Research.
LLC</strong> Yes mine have been answered.
Ladies and gentlemen I'd now like to turn the floor back over to management for any closing comments.
Thank you all for participating.
A replay of this call can be heard on the Varian Investor website at www.varian.com/investor where it will be archived for a year.
To hear telephone replay please dial 1 (877) 660-6853 from inside the U.S.
or 1 (201) 612-7415 from outside the U.S.
and entering confirmation code number 410801.
Telephone replay will be available through 5 p.m.
this Friday April 26.
Thank you all again for participating.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Varian Medical Systems Third Quarter Fiscal 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Spencer Sias Vice President Investor Relations for Varian Medical Systems.
Thank you.
Mr.
Sias you may begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and welcome to Varian Medical Systems conference call for the third quarter of fiscal 2013.
With me are Dow Wilson President and CEO; Elisha Finney CFO; and Clarence Verhoef our Corporate Controller.
Dow and Elisha will summarize our results and will take your questions following the presentation.
To simplify our discussion unless otherwise stated all references to the quarter or year are fiscal quarter and fiscal years.
Quarterly comparisons are for the third quarter of fiscal 2013 versus the third quarter of fiscal 2012.
Please be advised that this presentation and discussion contains forward-looking statements.
Our use of words and phrases such as outlook could should believe can estimate expect will looks hope and similar expressions are intended to identify those statements which represent our current judgment on future performance or other future matters.
While we believe them to be reasonable based on information currently available to us these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of the important risks relating to our business are described in our third quarter earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements in this presentation and discussion because of new information future events or otherwise.
Before turning it over to Dow let me remind you that Varian will be hosting its annual investor meeting at ASTRO in Atlanta on Tuesday morning September 24 and we'll be posting details on the website.
Please mark your calendars and we hope to see you there.
And now here's Dow.
Good afternoon and welcome.
We're reporting third quarter results with several positives as well as some challenges that impacted our performance.
Net earnings per share grew ahead of expectations for the quarter.
Revenues for the company grew but we're short of our objectives for the period principally because of a sharp decline in the yen and unexpected weakness in our X-ray tube business.
To summarize our results our net earnings per diluted share increased 7% to $1.03.
Revenues were $726 million up 3% on a reported basis and 4% on a constant-currency basis.
Our backlog grew 4% over the year-ago quarter to $2.75 billion including 6% in the oncology backlog -- 6% growth in the oncology backlog.
Net orders in our Oncology Systems X-ray Products and Security businesses totaled $725 million up 5% on a reported basis and up 7% on a constant-currency basis.
I will cover the operational highlights for the quarter and let Elisha walk you through the details of the P&amp;L and balance sheet.
In the third quarter Oncology Systems grew net orders by 4% to $582 million.
Net orders outside of North America grew by 8% on a reported basis and 12% in constant currency.
Currency had a huge impact in Asia where oncology net orders decreased by 6% on a reported basis but increased by 5% on a constant-currency basis.
Meanwhile EMEA grew by 21% in dollars and 22% in constant currency.
Net orders in North America fell by 1%.
Overall markets outside North America comprise 57% of oncology's net orders during the quarter.
EMEA was the big driver with substantial wins in the U.K.
Poland Turkey and North Africa.
Our 2 biggest markets in Asia continue to perform very well.
Net orders in both China and Japan were up over 20%.
In China I'm pleased to report that we made 2 package deals with Siemens imaging and Varian treatment equipment.
In Japan growth was driven by strong interest in our tubing systems as well as upgrades.
The rest of the Asia region was down on tough comps.
As you probably know the large tender to equip public cancer centers in Brazil has been delayed further with no auction date currently set.
Meanwhile purchasing continued in Brazil where we generated solid double-digit net order growth over last year.
The North American oncology market experienced slower capital spending amid reimbursement and concerns over Health Care Reform.
Subsequent to the close of the quarter CMS announced its initial proposal for 2014 reimbursement rates in the U.S.
Generally speaking the proposal increases reimbursement for hospitals while calling for a reduction for freestanding clinics which now represent about 5% of our global oncology business.
There are some real positives for hospitals in the CMS proposal with recommended increases for newer and more efficient treatment advances.
As an example under the proposal reimbursement for a single-fraction stereotactic radiosurgery for both linear accelerators and Cobalt-based systems would rise and continue to be equal.
This should help encourage replacement of older technology with newer and more efficient systems.
As a reminder the rates for 2014 will not be finalized until November and we can expect to see a lot of debate and some changes to the current proposals.
In any case we expect long-term pressure on reimbursement rates to place a premium on fast cost-efficient delivery of both radiosurgery and radiotherapy.
This continues to be a Varian strength because we believe we offer greater performance and value than any of our competitors.
We believe the need for better and more efficient health care is creating a market trend towards consolidation integration and standardization across multisite networks.
Customers need better cost productivity higher quality and measurable outcomes.
This can lead to larger and more complex deals.
As an example shortly after the close of the quarter we received a multimillion dollar order from a customer in the southeast of the United States which is integrating a consolidated 5-site network.
They will be equipping the network with 6 new Varian Linacs including 2 tubing units as well as our full suite of treatment planning and information management software.
Like a lot of our customers they used to provide standalone solutions in each of their sites.
Now they'll be updating their equipment and transitioning to one common patient database with common standards of care across their entire network.
This customer is also purchasing Varian's innovative full-scale program which will allow us to maintain and update the network's full software and hardware IT infrastructure through a private cloud.
During the quarter we booked multiple orders for the new EDGE radiosurgery system and several other customers ordered EDGE radiosurgery products accessories and software for their existing treatment machines.
Customer interest in this technology is high and the sales funnel for our radiosurgery solutions looks solid.
We hope to see this business accelerate further once we receive Shonin and CE Mark to sell EDGE outside of the U.S.
Our service business remained the growth driver with a 12% rise in net orders.
Service comprised 36% of oncology's net orders for the period and year-to-date.
This business contributed to healthy margins for our oncology business.
Turning to X-ray Products.
Third quarter net orders grew by 2% to $123 million and revenues grew by 7% to $135 million.
In a light volume quarter this business did an excellent job managing operating expenses.
Net orders and revenues were impacted by customers in Japan who began reducing excess tube inventories.
We have experienced similar inventory adjustments in the past and business has typically normalized after a couple of quarters.
Flat panel revenues grew 10% in the quarter as the market continued to adopt digital X-ray solutions.
While analog X-ray equipment sales have been soft for the last several years a continued trend towards the adoption of digital imaging technology enabled Varian to gain share and we continue to see growth opportunities here.
As an example we saw increased customer interest in our solutions that integrate panels workstations and image processing software.
As well emerging X-ray systems manufacturers in China and Korea are designing our digital imaging components into their products and setting the stage for further growth.
Net orders for the Other category were $22 million for the quarter versus $7 million in the year-ago quarter helped by a $12 million order from Smiths for 25 compact accelerators that will be used in their mobile cargo screening systems.
Third quarter revenues for the Other category were $30 million compared with $32 million in the year-ago quarter.
We're excited about new product developments in the Security business that we expect could lead to more growth in this business in 2014.
On the proton therapy front work continued on the Scripps installation in San Diego where the first patient treatment is slated to begin later this calendar year.
We did not book any new orders for proton therapy installations during the quarter.
The pipeline continues to look good but the timing of financing for deals is very difficult to predict.
Now I'll turn it over to Elisha.
Thanks Dow and hello everyone.
Dow has already walked you through how net orders were affected by the sharp decline of the yen.
I'll simply add that there was a negligible effect from the euro and other currencies.
I'll focus now on revenues and the rest of the P&amp;L as well as the balance sheet and cash flows.
Third quarter revenues for the total company increased 3% in dollars and 4% in constant currency.
Japan is our second largest national market and virtually the entire effect of the yen decline was felt in our Oncology business where we sell in local currency.
Our X-ray Products business sells almost exclusively in dollars.
While we're on the topic of the weakened yen we estimate that EPS was negatively impacted by about $0.04 in our third quarter and could total about $0.06 for the full fiscal year.
Going back to revenues oncology Systems posted a 3% increase during the quarter with 53% of revenues coming from outside North America.
In BRIC countries oncology revenue growth was a strong 25%.
For both the quarter and year-to-date BRIC revenues represented about 10% of the total oncology business.
X-ray Products posted a revenue gain of 7% with low double-digit growth in panels and mid-single-digit growth in tubes.
X-ray tube revenues were lighter than we expected due to the previously mentioned inventory adjustments among Japanese customers.
Revenues from businesses under the Other category decreased by $3 million.
We recorded $7 million of proton revenue as percentage of completion accounting continued for our projects at Scripps Saudi Arabia and Russia.
While I'm talking about the Proton business let me update you on our expectations regarding the balance of this fiscal year.
As I mentioned in last quarter's call we estimated annual proton therapy revenues of about $80 million including $40 million of higher-margin revenue from the project in Maryland.
Given that our customer there has not yet completed financing for this project we are removing this from our revenue projections for this fiscal year and estimating that this will reduce net earnings per share by about $0.06 for the year.
Returning to the P&amp;L walk the third quarter gross margin for the company was 42.8%.
Oncology Systems gross margin was 43.7% down from the year-ago quarter by 60 basis points but includes the $3 million impact of the medical device excise tax.
Year-to-date even with higher revenue growth outside North America and the impact of the yen Oncology Systems gross margin is 43.5%.
X-ray Products gross margin for the quarter was 39.8% down almost 6 points from the record year-ago quarter.
X-rays margins were hurt by a tube warranty issue that we believe has largely been resolved as well as continued pricing pressure in our flat panel business.
Year-to-date the X-ray Products gross margin is 41.3%.
Third quarter SG&amp;A expenses were $102 million or 14% of revenues an improvement of 1 point as a percentage of revenue from the year-ago quarter.
Third quarter R&amp;D expenses were $53 million or 7% of revenues about even as a percentage of revenue with the year-ago quarter.
Year-to-date combined operating expenses have been running at about 22% of revenue.
Moving down the income statement.
Third quarter operating earnings totaled $155 million up 1% from the year-ago quarter in dollars and down 0.5 point to 21.3% of revenues.
Year-to-date the operating margin was 20.6% almost even with the year-ago period a big win considering the impact of the restructuring charges in Q1 and Q2 the excise tax and the yen decline.
Depreciation and amortization totaled $15 million for the quarter.
The effective tax rate was 27.6% for the quarter and for the full fiscal year we estimate that the tax rate will approach 29%.
Fully diluted shares outstanding decreased by 3 million shares from the year-ago quarter to 109.8 million due to our ongoing share repurchase program.
Including an estimated $0.04 impact from the weakening of the yen and a $0.02 impact from the excise tax diluted EPS rose 7% to $1.03.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $766 million debt of $174 million and stockholders' equity of $1.7 billion.
DSO at 84 was up 4 days from the year-ago quarter but down 3 days from the previous quarter as collections were strong.
Third quarter cash flow from operations was a record $198 million significantly higher than net income due to working capital improvements stemming from accounts receivable and advanced payments.
Year-to-date cash flow from operations was $300 million.
Primary use of cash during the quarter was $95 million for stock repurchases.
At the end of the quarter we had 4 million shares remaining under the existing repurchase authorization that extends through calendar year 2013.
Before turning it back to Dow I want to let you know that Varian's board has approved negotiations to secure a $500 million 5-year term loan which we expect to execute in our fiscal fourth quarter.
This loan will be in addition to a $300 million revolving credit facility.
The proceeds will be used to pay down our existing credit facility to fund ongoing share repurchases and for general corporate purposes.
Now I'll turn it back to Dow for the outlook.
Thanks Elisha.
We remain confident in the strength of our core businesses.
However the sharp decline in the yen as well as uncertain timing of revenues from a proton therapy project in Maryland that has not completed its financing are leading us to adjust our expectations for the balance of the year.
We now believe that for fiscal year 2013 total company revenues could increase by about 5% over the fiscal year 2012 total.
Net earnings per diluted share for fiscal year 2013 could be in the range of $4 to $4.04.
We're now ready for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Amit Hazan of SunTrust bank.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask the first question on stereotactic reimbursement.
I think there's still a lot of confusion out there kind of maybe disbelief out there so I want to ask you to clarify the point.
And as I look at what CMS did it seems to me that they essentially consolidated cobalt robotic and Linac into a new set of codes.
And in doing so if we think about where these codes were last year so not including the fiscal cliff deal cobalt and robotic got something like a low-single digit increase but Linac-based stereotactic which was significantly lower previously is now lumped into the same cobalt robotic category and will get something like 50% to 100% increase because of the lumping in.
Is that essentially correct? And if so how much more comfortable does it make you as you think about the next year in the North American market? That is correct Amit.
And I guess from the top I should say that this is a proposal and there will be debate and dialogue on these proposals in Washington until they're finalized in November and implemented January 1.
If they do stand yes you're absolutely right.
That would be a fairly big increase for Linac-based SRS.
So if it remains I think it's very good news and we're hopeful that it also may help encourage a replacement of older technology that these kinds of treatment applications are difficult to do on and drive an upgrade cycle.
And of course it also -- it's consistent with what happened in law earlier this year and that is a premium between -- premium for cobalt systems goes away and it equalizes Linac versus cobalt-based reimbursement.
And that is of course what the law was requiring earlier this year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I just want to ask -- I know you're not giving fiscal '14 guidance yet but maybe just a general modeling question as we think about how to think about that year.
If oncology backlog is up mid-single digits which seems to be up about 7% right now and obviously it does not include much service which is obviously growing even faster is it fair to assume that that's going to be kind of the leading indicator for how to think about growth next year? It's based on those metrics and also maybe a little bit of the proton now moving to '14 as well? Yes.
I mean I think it's fair Amit that you obviously consider the backlog because the time in backlog on average is about anywhere from 12 to 18 months.
But I think if you use 12 months as a general rule that's great.
Of course currency can impact that pretty significantly.
But if you have the backlog it's 6% for oncology and then services growing faster than that.
I believe our X-ray Products business over the long term will return to double-digit growth.
We're seeing a temporary inventory adjustment in our tube business but we feel very confident about that business over the long term.
And then same -- and same with SIP and then of course the wildcard is proton therapy.
We feel confident about that business going forward over the long term.
It's just the timing of revenues can be very very difficult to predict given percentage of completion and financing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one last question on gross margin.
Obviously the oncology gross margin was very good considering the geographic mix.
And I'm just wondering as we think about that over the next 12 to 18 months I know the international orders have been growing faster so in terms of the mix within that international is that something that you're concerned about at all or relatively speaking should we be thinking about a similar gross margin profile for the oncology business going forward? Yes but as we've said once we hit the reset last year we believe -- I mean the goal is that oncology can maintain their gross margin in the 43% to 44% level as service and software grow fast and as we have this continued shift to emerging markets.
I mean to have 25% growth in BRIC in the quarter and to turn in their gross margin was really really good performance.
If you look at for the full fiscal year again we think the margin is going to be about even with the year-ago period despite $8 million of excise tax the impacts of the yen.
So they have done a really good job at reducing variable cost and being able to maintain the gross margin even as we become more of a global company.
Yes.
And I think when you kind of step back and look at the overall initiatives of the company 2 of our big 5 are exactly what we're talking about.
Globalization and expanding in emerging markets is a big deal for us.
We're putting up good growth in those markets.
We want to keep feeding that and growing that.
And then of course as a piece of that is we want to work on the margin rate and our oncology business has got very good traction at driving some variable cost productivity and getting cost but frankly all of our product down.
I think probably about a year ago we talked a little bit about our TrueBeam product cost and some of the initiatives that we had there.
We've got good traction on TrueBeam and we're translating those initiatives across our product lines.
So we're hoping to offset some of that margin difference between our emerging market business and the U.S.
business by increased focus on productivity.
And then as well across the business in the X-ray business we saw some margin pressure this quarter and overall they're looking at viable cost productivity as well as base-cost productivity and have done a very good job at managing cost.
The next question is from Amit Bhalla of Citibank.
Research Division</strong> Question just on oncology in the quarter.
Can you just help me reconcile the revenue performance? Was it all yen related or was there any delays in acceptance of systems in the oncology business that led to the miss in revenue? No it was -- the lion's share of it was just yen.
The entire effect of the yen was felt in our oncology business.
If you look back at Q3 revenue guidance versus where we came in roughly -- if I take the midpoint about a $25 million short of which the yen was $10 million our X-Ray and SIP business combined was $10 million and the rest of it's just a rounding error in oncology.
Yes and I think we said it in the script but it's probably worth emphasizing.
Our X-ray business prices all of its product to Japan in dollars so we don't see the yen currency impact in our X-ray business.
Research Division</strong> And then secondly on the order book as you move into the fiscal fourth quarter now that reimbursement is proposed and that's not lingering right now how do you think about fiscal fourth quarter for oncology orders? We're going to go after every one of them.
I mean I think -- what are we seeing? When you kind of stand back and look at it the reimbursement is good news.
Obviously it is a proposal.
It's not final so there's a fair amount of uncertainty about that.
The freestanding market has been very very quiet for a long time.
Our view is that impact is more less anniversary-ed in the business now but we are having more and more discussions with customers on SRS and SBRT.
Whether those -- that reimbursement rate sticks remains to be seen but it's still good news in whatever form it comes back.
It's good news for Linac-based SRS and SBRT.
And I'd say that we're having a lot of conversations with customers around new technology.
And that's a positive thing.
And I think the thing to remember is this is application based.
People are excited about the developments that are happening in lung cancer and in some of these new areas.
And the evidence the clinical evidence is growing and that's a very positive thing for our industry.
Research Division</strong> Elisha can I just clarify one point? You just talked about -- you just talked about backlog in oncology is up 6% as a leading indicator but how do you reconcile that with oncology orders looking to be down about 1% for the year? How is that not part of the leading indicator? Yes well I mean because the revenue was coming a little lighter than expected as well given some of the currency issues.
So I mean backlog is a cumulative number so this is looking at cumulative orders minus cumulative revenues different baselines.
And now it remains to be seen how we end Q4 with the backlog but as we sit here today looking 12 months out I think that 6% is a fairly good indicator of systems sales for oncology.
The next question is from Jeremy Feffer of Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> First I just want to come back to sort of bigger picture on the U.S.
hospital situation.
I mean obviously we've seen the same trends pretty much all 3 quarters now.
What -- I guess in very broad terms what do you see as the inflection point? I guess now we have a little more clarity on reimbursement.
We'll be heading into a new budgeting cycle for a lot of hospitals certainly this quarter or next.
Where do you see the inflection point? And how do you see this thing turning around? Here's kind of my view of it Jeremy.
I think the long-term trends are all very very good.
There's a lot of old equipment out there.
There's new applications going on.
I think in the long term even in the U.S.
we're in very good shape.
We've seen some independent studies done that suggest that SRS and SBRT are driving a long-term buying cycle and people are lining up budgets on a long-term basis to invest in new technology.
So we're encouraged about that.
In the short term there's a lot of consolidation going on.
People are -- like the example I cited in the call people are looking at more integration in their networks.
I think there's still some uncertainty over what long-term health care reform means and how that's going to impact our industry in the short term.
The freestanding market is very very quiet.
I don't see that changing in the short term.
Maybe as the reimbursement decisions finalize maybe we'll see some change there.
But anyway to kind of go around the horn I think North America is going to be very much the kind of market that we've seen for this past year.
We might be seeing a little slight thawing of not a great market.
We've seen pretty good strength out of Europe and we had a very good quarter this past quarter in the U.K.
That's going to be hard to repeat but we have seen continued strength in the Middle East in Northern Africa and in Eastern Europe.
So that's positive.
Asia we had a very good quarter in both Japan and China.
We had a very tough comp in kind of the rest of Asia but -- and then of course you heard about the yen issue.
But I think the Asia business is going to continue very strong for us.
Emerging markets for us are up double digit and we think we can continue to drive that.
So I think that the overall for oncology when you net that all out with a good service business it's probably a mid-single-digit grower.
With the X-ray business growing long-term double digits some upside in protons.
Obviously we've got this emerging market growth and then maybe some risk around currency.
We think it's a mid- to high-single-digit target scenario that we're looking on for total company.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just following up quickly on the hospital side.
Comment a little bit if you can on the pricing environment because you talked about facility consolidation obviously delays in purchasing decisions.
You have a new competitor or a competitor with a new product out there.
How does the pricing environment look from where you sit right here? Pricing is holding.
We're comfortable with the price levels.
And as Elisha said we've managed from a margin point of view our gross margins are holding excluding the excise tax.
And we're comfortable where the price levels are.
The next question is from Steve Beuchaw of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Dow in your commentary I didn't catch it but I wonder if you have one an estimate of what in the proposed rule the hospital reimbursement basket might be up.
Did you guys put a figure to that? I mean it depends on everybody's mix so we've been encouraging customers to kind of take their own mix through the model.
The bottom line is SRS and IMRT are up and could even be at a double-digit kind of rate.
And then there's other puts and takes.
What we like about the proposal is it encourages more conformal advanced treatments and that's the deal.
There's very substantial evidence on the advantages of IMRT and especially in prostate and head and neck and this supports those advantages.
And we think in the market that we're looking at if these hold it will really help us on a replacement cycle basis.
Research Division</strong> And so I guess as you take a step back and you think about the packaging initiative that CMS has spoken to I got the sense from reading that they were looking for budget neutrality across the program.
Is this a signal that they want to treat radiation oncology differently relative to the overall basket? And if so is that a function of the clinical arguments you're making or is there some other driver? I'm reluctant to speak for them.
I think at a very high level across all the baskets I think that's what they were trying to accomplish.
I think as I said we like very much the proposal as it relates to the support for new technology and treatment applications that are demonstrated with clinical effectiveness and that's the world that we're going into.
So on that basis I think it's consistent with the other kinds of things we've heard from CMS about comparative effectiveness and actually support some of the initiatives that they're trying to drive.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
Then just a couple on housekeeping.
I mean one in software last quarter it sounded like the growth there was I don't know how to be too precise but maybe mid-single digits.
Was it similar in this quarter? Any better or worse? It's pretty close.
We are the clear leader in treatment planning.
So in treatment planning from a share point of view doing very very well.
In oncology information systems it's neck-and-neck with us and Mosaic.
We're confident this market will keep growing.
There's been some noise around the ARRA-HITECH incentive and yes customers have been taking advantage of that.
But there's a couple opportunities that we see in the future.
One there's going to be other ARRA-HITECH levels that people have to qualify for.
Second all of this conversation around comparative effectiveness is driving an informatics discussion.
And then third we have a huge opportunity outside of the U.S.
where frankly oncology information systems have been diffused at a lower rate than the U.S.
So we think we still have opportunity in the software business to grow this at double-digit rate.
The next question is from David Roman of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I know that there have been a few attempts to kind of get at an FY '14 number but I wanted just to try...
Want to try one more time? Research Division</strong> I got to try at least one other way and I certainly can appreciate the comment down the longer-term growth in the mid-to high-single digits and you can certainly see that materializing through a combination of more favorable geographic mix as well as the continued growth in X-ray Products and development in Security and Inspection.
But it is sort of a I guess a 2-part question but if I just look at year-to-date orders and backlog it seems like growth over the immediate term sounds -- is more like a mid-single-digit type number.
And then if you're -- if sort of the revenue growth rate were sort of in the 4% to 6% range what would that sort of portend for the earnings outlook? I mean can you grow double-digit earnings below 6% top line? And where are the flex -- what are the levers there that could get you through the P&amp;L? Yes so David let me take a stab at this without giving you guidance into FY '14.
I don't see any material changes in the tax rate.
It may vary a point up a point down depending on a geographic mix of products.
But you're not going to see a drastic change in the tax rate.
What you will see is that the diluted shares outstanding should continue to go down.
We announced the $500 million debt facility that we are about to negotiate we have some commitments for.
We plan to pay down the revolver and use the balance to continue with our ongoing share repurchase program which is somewhere between 1 to 2 million shares per quarter is what we've been averaging.
So you should expect that that will continue and so we will get some leverage on the P&amp;L through our -- through returning capital to shareholders.
Research Division</strong> And then on the gross margin side X-ray obviously took a big step down this quarter.
You did cite a onetime dynamic in your prepared remarks but you also talked about underlying pricing pressure.
I know that the margins there had sort of spiked up pretty significantly.
What sort of -- is the trend -- can you keep X-ray margins kind of flattish from the year-to-date level? Or are those going to have a downward bias to them? Well that's our goal.
They have a lot of cost controls and they've had a lot of quality improvements in the X-ray business.
We were at a record level in the year-ago period.
It was unsustainable at 45%.
I think the low 40s is something that we can expect to continue as we go into FY '14 in this business.
It is a volume business.
So as sales start to pick up you do see that fall through their gross margin quite nicely.
And that's both true in tubes and panels.
So while we do have some pricing pressure in panels it is still a higher-margin product line than the tube.
So if it grows faster than the tubes as we expect it should also help the gross margin balance overall.
So I'm pretty confident that in the low 40s we should be able to maintain that.
Research Division</strong> And then just to make sure I understand the crosswalk between the prior earnings guidance and the revised earnings guidance I think you cited $0.04 from -- before I think $0.06 from the Maryland order and then -- or a couple of pennies from currency.
Is that the entirety of the delta from your prior expectations? Well so there for the full year we believe the impact of the yen is about $0.06 versus the prior guidance that we gave and that would be in Q3 and Q4.
And that the Maryland project is also $0.06 so a total of a $0.12 impact from those 2 items.
You'll see that we've taken the midpoint the low the high and the midpoint of the guidance down by $0.10.
So what we're saying is if it weren't for these 2 things we think we would be at the top end of our prior guidance or slightly ahead.
The temporary issues that we're facing in X-ray we think we've covered through pretty significant cost controls and -- as a total company.
And you saw SG&amp;A came down as a percentage of sales in the quarter should tick back up to about even year-over-year.
So we -- if the only thing we were dealing with were the X-ray temporary problems we would have that more than covered but these 2 other things are pretty significant.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then last one just for Dow on the deal you signed in the Southeast can you maybe just talk about how you think that type of selling strategy or that type of market dynamic plays out over time? And it sounds as if -- first I think that you've highlighted a specific deal of that nature on the call.
Maybe -- are we very early in that transition? Maybe -- how does that -- does that change market dynamics? And how should we think about the opportunity there? I think it's a continuing trend David.
We have been talking a little bit about consolidation and integration.
Those would be the 2 trends.
Consolidation on the customer side for those of you in New York City Mount Sinai and Continuum of -- got their merger approved this week.
That's more on the hospital side but even then they have a network.
And as they bring their networks together they will be interested in sharing information across their networks to drive informatics and comparative effectiveness.
This particular customer in the southeast was a combination of hospital and outpatient settings.
And I think on the one hand it makes the negotiation tougher because they kind of lengthen out.
We don't love that part of it.
But on the IT side it actually gives us a very good opportunity and we like that aspect of it a lot because people are really looking at how do they integrate their systems so they can get better productivity and efficiency in their departments.
And we are the productivity versatility and efficiency leaders in the industry and so that aspect of it I think actually is very favorable to us.
It does make negotiations a little longer and more complex but I think at the end of it it's very good for us.
I think in the software space you heard me briefly mention this new product we call FullScale which is kind of a private cloud for our customers.
It variablizes [ph] their hardware investment and we kind of manage the department for them in the IT space.
It's not a perfect kind of SaaS software-as-a-service model but pretty close and our customers are responding very well to that and I think we'll see a lot of that as we see this kind of consolidation and integration trend come together.
The next question is from Tycho Peterson of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question on the proton.
Was this purely a financing issue or were there other factors there? And maybe can you just address kind of the need for more clinical data around proton and how you think about your role in maybe facilitating studies and trials? Sure.
I mean it is purely a financing issue.
There's nothing else at play there and just kind of stuck on timing of pulling that financing together.
The -- in terms of our role long term we think there are some indications where proton is very well indicated and a lot of the conversation in these centers is around those indications.
It's clear that as we move to a comparative effectiveness world playing a big role in -- bigger role and a big role in clinical studies that demonstrate that effectiveness better.
Whether it's proton SBRT SRS IMRT image guidance Calypso beacons or otherwise we're going to have to demonstrate that clinical effectiveness better than we have in the past and it will be a growing investment area for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you talk a little bit about EDGE what the order book looks like and just in terms of mix of customers? Are these competitive swap-outs? Are they neurosurgeons versus rad oncs? And talk about timing on CE.
I think you'd said by year end.
Is that still on track? Yes.
I think we're -- again as I said in the call right now it's pretty much a U.S.
market discussion.
We do not have the CE Mark yet and we do not have Shonin in Japan so we're still working on those.
But in the U.S.
we're seeing very good uptake.
We have seen some CyberKnife replacements so we're thrilled about that.
We are seeing growth over our historical BrainLAB business and pretty substantial growth over our -- over last year's offerings.
So we're up there.
And we're also seeing very good traction in the upgrade market as people upgrade.
So it's -- it is the most efficient and cost-effective SRS tool on the market.
With the new reimbursement maybe we'll see expanded growth there next year depending on how that's finalized.
And we are seeing also -- we're having a number of conversations with thoracic surgeons as they figure out what this means for lung cancers.
So we're -- I mean we're still kind of in the market development.
We have seen some good traction and it's growing based on historical business and pretty substantially.
And in the U.S.
we're kind of right where we thought we'd be if not a little bit ahead and we'd like to get the global traction going and are working on the regulatory approvals for that.
Research Division</strong> Then you called out China in the comments.
Can you talk about the size of your installed base now in mix? How much of this is TrueBeam? And obviously you've got UNIQUE approved there now too.
Is that starting to get some traction? We're growing very well in China.
We had another double-digit quarter in China so we're pleased with the growth there.
We've got a new leadership team in China that we're very encouraged about.
So we're expanding distribution.
And I think we're going to keep growing.
We do have approval for UNIQUE and TrueBeam in China.
We -- the prospects are good and we see continued growth in that market.
The installed base it's off the top of my head our installed base 300-ish units.
If I'm really wrong I'll send out a note but the -- it's about 300-ish units and most of these are in new vaults.
So it's all installed base growth and we're starting to see some service growth in that business as these units come out of warranty.
The TrueBeam penetration in that market is still fairly small so there is a high end of that market.
So I'd say we're selling a couple every quarter or so TrueBeams in that market and we're seeing nice traction.
We do think there's a few more regulatory hurdles for us to address with TrueBeam and some of its new products like EDGE.
And as we get that regulatory approval we'll even see further expansion of that brand in China.
Research Division</strong> And 1 or 2 quick ones for Elisha.
With SG&amp;A down were there additional cost cuts? Or can you just maybe talk to the SG&amp;A being down here? I'm sorry I'm having a little bit of a hard time hearing you Tycho.
You're talking about the variability in the SG&amp;A yes.
Research Division</strong> Yes the fact that it was down.
Yes we did a lot of variability.
If I'm going to take a guess that we're roughly 60% fixed 40% variable costs.
And depending on hiring trade shows travel legal you name it FX you can get some pretty big shifts.
I think what happened is as you know we had a restructuring charge in Q1 and Q2.
We had 80-some-odd people and we didn't hire all of those replacements on day 1.
It was kind of a slow build as we went through the quarter.
So I think you're going to see it go up in Q4.
We have our largest trade show in Q4 this year and it's always just bigger because with commissions and whatnot.
So I think for the year it will be maybe a little bit of leverage but pretty close to what we had in the last fiscal year as a percentage of revenue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with the term loan it sounds like -- you did mention potentially additional share repurchases.
Any thoughts on whether you would do an ASR? And you did mention dividends but I assume that that's something that's...
Well I said we were going to use it to do our typical share repurchase program which is that 1 to 2 million shares per quarter.
We have been using virtually all the cash that we generate in the U.S.
on our share repurchase plus drawing down under our revolver.
This gives us the ability to pay down the revolver use those proceeds going forward and keep our $300 million revolving line of credit as it should be kind of as an insurance policy.
We have done ASRs in the past.
It's kind of the best of all worlds.
You can mirror a traditional buyback over some period of time.
You get a discount to the weighted average purchase price.
We reduce shares up front.
And in the very low borrowing environment we're in today it really kind of makes sense to pay that in advance.
So to be determined we have not decided anything along those lines so this is not an announcement by any means.
We should finish our negotiations and have the debt in place by the end of Q4 and we'll know more after that.
The next question is from Jason Wittes of Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> Dow I want to revisit -- you got a lot of questions on reimbursement but one thing that you did say which piqued my interest is that if the codes stay as they are especially at the hospital level or specifically at the hospital level we could actually see a resurgence or replacements of -- as people move towards SRS.
Is that kind of your feeling? And is that something that we should be looking for in November when the rates finally do get finalized? We're all going to be looking hard at the rates as they close out.
If they remain as proposed it looks like a double-digit increase for SRS and SBRT at least Linac based and that would be positive news for our customers.
So these things always take a while to kind of work their way into budgets.
Most of our customers are on a 1-year budget cycle and how this impacts them and what timing they push given the the broader capital health care environment is kind of the question.
I think from our point of view if these remain that will be a positive thing for our customers in replacing -- especially some of this older technology that you can do SRS or SBRT on but it's very slow and very inefficient and you can do it much better with modern technology.
Research Division</strong> When you say modern you're just talking about TrueBeam or...
TrueBeam and EDGE yes.
Research Division</strong> And EDGE.
So that would be -- mean -- basically I would assume something like 80% of the installed base would look to potentially upgrade.
Is that a fair estimate? Maybe even higher.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to touch on that as well.
Your comments last quarter about basically a year of sort of 0% growth in the U.S.
it doesn't -- it's probably too early to make a call as to whether these reimbursement proposals will make a difference in that.
Is that a fair assumption? As you know we don't give orders guidance.
I mean just -- we talk markets a little bit.
I think the U.S.
market at least in the short term we don't see changing dramatically from where it's been.
We think Asia is going to remain strong.
Europe we're always kind of watching Western Europe to see what it does.
We've managed to hold or even do a little bit better.
We had a terrific quarter this quarter in Europe.
We're a little measured about what that is long term.
But we've seen very good growth in Eastern Europe very good growth in the Middle East very good growth in Turkey.
And so if Western Europe can hold our map of Europe should be okay.
So the U.S.
market is -- it's a question mark and at least at this point in time in the short term it's -- our performance so far this year is probably a pretty good indication of where the market is in the short term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one quick clarification.
For the proton order which is delayed due to financing that I assume is still a near-term event something that should happen in next couple of quarters? Or how should we be thinking about that? Yes.
The financing is not complete so we haven't booked the order yet.
The construction is in progress so there's a very nice building in Baltimore underway.
They're nearly ready to receive the equipment.
It's a fairly large order for us and -- but we're not exactly share when they'll complete financing.
So we've obviously got to think through that as we complete our guidance calculation next quarter but with hopefully over the course of the quarter we'll have some new information to give us a little better feeling about where to guide that order.
Research Division</strong> But I guess just -- it sounds more like a question of when as opposed to if.
Is that fair? We're hoping.
The next question is from Anthony Petrone of Jefferies Group.
Research Division</strong> A question just on the guidance you issued for the full year and how that plays out for the fourth quarter.
I think if you go ahead and model out 5% growth for the year you're calling for about 2.5% growth for the fourth quarter.
And so in dollar terms it's about a $55 million delta relative to consensus where it stands now.
And Elisha you called out a $40 million impact in proton.
So I'm just trying to reconcile how the balance shakes out when we look at FX again specifically.
And on -- in U.S.
Oncology is there anything in there in the way of softness for the fourth quarter as well? Right.
So you mentioned it Anthony $40 million for Maryland which will presumably come out of fourth quarter.
The temporary issues in X-ray we're assuming are going to continue at least partly into the fourth quarter.
Based on our history these things tend to last 1 to 2 quarters.
So between X-ray and a little bit in SIP I'm assuming down $10 million.
The yen is probably another impact of maybe $5 million.
Most of our Japanese sales occur in Q2 and Q3.
We do have a large service business though so we will see some impact in the fourth quarter.
We're thinking about $5 million.
So that kind of -- that bridges the delta as to where we are and where we thought we would be for the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough fair enough.
And then maybe just another question that relates to margins for next year Dow you mentioned last quarter that about 300 TrueBeams would be out of warranty over the next 18 months so we're 3 months into that.
So how many TrueBeams have come out of warranty and are on the higher-priced service contracts? And assuming we do get all 300 out of warranty into next year what do you think the impact on gross margin could be? We haven't looked at it recently but what I can tell you is that we have basically a TrueBeam coming out of warranty per workday over the next year.
So that's the math.
That business is now $700 million $750 million-ish and so we see it growing at a continued double-digit rate.
And the team's doing a great job chasing the contracts and our contract capture rate on TrueBeams is very high 75% to 80%-ish.
Research Division</strong> And the premium on TrueBeam service contract is relative to...
It depends how it's configured.
But in general terms it's probably 15% to 20% higher.
Research Division</strong> Great great.
And this is just a question actually on the freestanding clinic.
So I'm full well understanding it's only 5% of the business now but you have OnCure filing for bankruptcy in the quarter and it seems that Radiation Therapy Services is close to consolidating that company.
Is that represent a potential order next year? Or how do you think about the consolidation? I don't think it'll represent an incremental order for us.
I think you'd have to talk to the guys at 21st Century but I think that they'll -- this is a good acquisition for them and expands their network and gives them an opportunity to think about some of their own -- I think it's another example of some of the consolidation trends that we're seeing out there and clearly they're interested in same-store sales and they're interested in incremental stores.
And this will give them an opportunity to kind of consolidate their position in some of those markets and look at where they may have duplicative services and can drive efficiency or look at those places where they can try to get a bigger footprint in the market.
So I think it's something that in this particular segment we've seen for a while so I actually -- OnCure had some specific financial aspects to it but in terms of the consolidation that's going on in the freestanding market that's not new news.
We've seen a fair amount of that over the last 2 or 3 years.
The next question is from Jeff Johnson of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Dow most of my questions have been answered.
Let me just ask I guess 2 follow-ups.
One going back to some of the reimbursement stuff you've hedged it about every way you can.
You just sound a little skeptical to me on whether or not you think some of these big increases especially maybe on the SRS side maybe on the IMRT side are going to stay in place so they don't get rolled back in November.
So just wondering kind of your thoughts there.
I'll apologize to our international listeners but I'm from Missouri and I'm -- in the Show Me State you got to see it and this is a proposal.
And so yes we are hedging a little bit.
We like what's come out.
We think it's good but we'll feel a lot better when it's final.
So it's -- there's always a little bit of uncertainty around these.
We've seen a move in the past a little bit and we just want to be conservative about how we feel about this and at least in the short term as I said at the beginning we are seeing some SRS SBRT movement in the market.
My own gut is that's as much clinical as it is reimbursement-driven.
This is the right thing to do.
We got a good approach for lung cancer.
There's a growing body of clinical data.
We've got some data from some independent sources that say people are looking at purchasing that -- there's an IMV study out there that people are looking at SRS and SBRT purchases and they're also looking at replacements of IMRT devices.
And it's kind of some encouraging news and frankly that survey was done before the reimbursement news came out.
So kind of put that together with the reimbursement news there is reason to be optimistic.
I think our customers are from Missouri and so they're going to wait and see what happens in the final ruling and if this sticks it will be very positive news.
Research Division</strong> And maybe it's a naive question but when we get those November final rates and you kind of read-through who was pro; who was con; why they argued different sides of it.
Who's going to be arguing against higher rates? I'm not sure.
Research Division</strong> I mean why would it maybe get rolled back significantly? I can see when the lobbying groups go out there and argue against the rate cuts.
But when CMS proposes some rate increases I guess I just have a harder time figuring out who might be on the opposite side of that.
I mean there's a number of things at play here.
Clearly one of the aspects with SRS and SBRT is maybe you'll get lower costs by doing fewer fractions.
But clearly the initiative here is on the payer side who is going to pay for this? And that's Congress CMS insurance companies.
Those are the folks that are looking at okay there are some increases here how are we going to pay for this in the context of everything that's going on? And as we've said here before and continue to believe radiation therapy is a terrific approach for cancer care.
It's very economic very low cost relatively noninvasive on patients and a growing body of outstanding clinical evidence in new cancer sites.
So we think there's a reason to support it but it's going to be how do you pay for it? Research Division</strong> All right.
Fair enough.
And then we have heard some rumblings maybe under a bundled initiative like you're seeing if hospitals aren't sure who's going to get paid for the daily TQ or whatever you call it the daily physics that are performed on these machines and all that that there could be some pushout.
Just purely a -- not necessarily on orders but on order acceptances in the near term any truth to that? Or how do you feel the revenue side not the order side could play out in the near term until we get some finalization there? I've seen no impact from that and I haven't even heard a whisper from our customers da nada [ph].
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And Elisha just one quick follow-up for you.
Just if yen was a $0.04 hit relative to last time you guided $0.04 hit this quarter $0.02 hit next quarter at least in my math the yen is going to be an even bigger drag year-over-year next quarter than the third quarter.
So why is the incremental impact only $0.02 next quarter versus $0.04 this quarter? Because most of our sales in Japan occur in Q2 and Q3.
They take delivery of their machine around their fiscal year which is the end of March and so we get a lot of shipments and installations in that period of time.
And then that's where we saw the drastic 20% reduction -- decline in the yen.
If we moving into Q4 it's probably closer to $0.02 because again it's really just our service business that's going to be impacted as opposed to a lot of equipment sales.
Research Division</strong> And not that you're guiding '14 but would it be the same kind of 1 2? It looks like the year-over-year drag is going to be about the same from change a yen.
So would the Q1 hold as well? Until we anniversary and hopefully we are back at 80% by Q3 next year.
It's just a lot of variability right now.
Unfortunately we saw it with the euro last year.
That has now tended to stabilize and it's holding.
Hopefully we will start to see some stability in the yen as well.
The next question is from Charley Jones of Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I have about 6 questions but I'll try and keep it to 2 here.
The first one is I guess a little bit of history if you wouldn't mind spending it on reimbursement.
When I think back about reimbursement I think about these 40% decreases proposed that always get cut in half or 1/3 and it's been going on for a decade it seems like.
And yet they increased it double digits this year.
So I don't know how much you talk to them but I'm a little bit confused in this.
I think it's probably the differentiation of SVT and radiation and whatnot but did they overshoot on the downside and so we are kind of due for some increases in reimbursement? Or what clinical studies have been done that would really validate a double-digit increase? I think the...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And if you wouldn't mind spending [ph] a little bit of history has there been any decreases in reimbursement in these line items over the last 5 years? There's been -- the general decline over the last several years has been call it 2% to 5-ish percent and so that's kind of been the history.
It's -- I think for SRS and SBRT there's a -- there's growing clinical evidence.
For lung cancer this could be a cheaper way as you compare it to alternatives although we have not been party to any of those studies.
So short version is we don't know exactly what CMS' thinking was other than in a comparative effectiveness world these are new treatment paradigms that are very effective and lower cost.
And when you look at it especially on a cost per patient basis over time it's probably very good for them.
So we are not party to that conversation.
So this is pure Dow conjecture just for the record but we do talk to them regularly but we don't always know.
The system isn't overcome with transparency but I see on these new treatment sites they're trying to support the new technology especially where it makes a cost comparative impact and that's certainly what this new proposal shows.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then real quick follow-up on that.
You guys had some kind of confusing information out there a little bit ago about costs that rolled up into their reimbursement equation for proton.
So curious if there's any update there.
But my real -- really my second question was about Elekta.
We didn't really talk about it much.
They had decent growth.
Just curious are they acting kind of more rationally and recognizing -- just kind of curious how you see your growth relative to theirs and -- on any geographic basis and whether or not it seems like a more reasonable environment is starting here? So before Dow tackles those 2 questions we'll just say those are the final 2 questions that we've got.
We've overrun the call here.
And so Dow take it away.
Yes on proton reimbursement the proposal is up from where it was revised downward to last year but doesn't return all the way to where it was the year before.
So it's mixed positive news.
In terms of Elekta I think both Varian and Elekta are winning share from replacing the Siemens share that's gone out of the market as well as Accuray and TomoTherapy.
We continue to see them be aggressive and that's probably what I could say at this point in time.
So thank you all for participating.
A replay of this call can be heard on the Varian Investor website at www.varian.com/investor where it will be archived for a year.
To hear a telephone replay please dial 1 (877) 660-6853 from inside the U.S.
or 1 (201) 612-7415 from outside the U.S.
and enter confirmation code number 417400.
The telephone replay will be available through 5 p.m.
Friday July 26 2013.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Varian Medical Systems Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Spencer Sias Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you Mr.
Sias you may now begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and welcome to Varian Medical Systems conference call for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013.
With me are Dow Wilson President and CEO; Elisha Finney CFO; and Clarence Verhoef our Corporate Controller.
Dow and Elisha will summarize our results and we'll take your questions following the presentation.
To simplify our discussion unless otherwise stated all references to the quarter or year or fiscal quarters and fiscal years.
Quarterly comparisons are for the fourth quarter fiscal 2013 versus the fourth quarter fiscal '12.
Please be advised that this presentation and discussion contains forward-looking statements.
Our use of words and phrases such as outlook should believe can expect will hope and similar expressions are intended to identify those statements which represent our current judgment on future performance or other future matters.
While we believe them to be reasonable based on information currently available to us these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of the important risks relating to our business are described in our fourth quarter earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements in this presentation and discussion because of new information future events or otherwise.
Before turning it over to Dow we are advising those who participate in the Q&amp;A following these prepared remarks to limit yourselves to one question and a follow-up.
This should give all participants a chance to ask their question during the call.
We thank you for helping with this.
As a reminder please mark your calendars that Varian will be hosting its annual year-end meeting for investors at the Marriott Marquis in New York at 11:30 a.m.
to 1 p.m.
on November 5.
Details are posted on our Investor Relations site.
We hope to see you there.
And now here's Dow.
Good afternoon and welcome everyone.
We're reporting mixed but promising results for the fourth quarter of 2013.
Revenue and earnings fell short of our targets for the quarter primarily because of slow short cycle sales of oncology systems upgrades.
Our backlog grew 1% despite a $156-million adjustment that I'll cover in a moment and we generated order growth in all oncology markets outside of North America during the quarter with the help of a strong performance in our service business.
We had a record performance in our X-ray Products business and we reached an important milestone in our Proton Therapy business.
To summarize our financial results which Elisha will detail in a few moments our net earnings were $1.08 per diluted share for the fourth quarter equal to the year-ago quarter and $3.98 per diluted share for fiscal year 2013 up 6% from the prior year.
Revenues for the quarter were $770 million up 2% on a reported basis and 3% on a constant currency basis.
Company revenues for the fiscal year were $2.9 billion up 5% on a reported basis and 6% on a constant currency basis.
As we reported in our press release we reduced our quarter ending backlog by $156 million.
This was the result of ongoing uncertainty in the U.S.
health care environment as well as a higher level of cancellations in the quarter primarily relating to orders from small freestanding clinic developers whose projects did not move forward.
This prompted us to reevaluate similar transactions.
We determined that some orders were no longer firm and consequently decided to remove them from our backlog.
We ended the year with a $2.9 billion backlog up 1% from the end of fiscal year 2012.
Today less than 5% of our total company backlog is comprised of orders from freestanding clinics.
The remaining freestanding customers with orders in the backlog include large long-term partners who have continued to expand their operations.
In order to provide additional detail going forward beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013 we are changing our presentation of orders to gross orders.
A table showing the gross to net order comparison is provided in our press release.
I will now focus on the operational highlights of our businesses.
Oncology Systems grew gross orders on a global basis versus a strong year-ago comparison despite ongoing weakness in the U.S.
health care market.
Oncology gross orders grew by 3% to $841 million in the fourth quarter while net orders including backlog adjustments fell by 13% to $685 million.
For the year Oncology gross orders rose by 2% to $2.6 billion while annual net orders including our backlog adjustment fell by 4% to $2.3 billion.
Compared to the year-ago quarter gross orders in all markets outside North America grew by 12% more than offsetting a 6% decline in North America.
Orders grew strongly in several international markets including Brazil China Japan Scandinavia and Latin America.
As an indication of our expanding global footprint the quarter included some $20 million in orders from emerging markets such as Georgia Kazakhstan Guatemala and Burkina Faso.
China was particularly strong with fourth quarter gross order growth of 30% which brought the order growth rate there for the fiscal year to 25%.
China is clearly investing in radiation oncology for its cancer patients and we have stepped up our investment to serve them.
In August we held a very successful oncology summit for more than 525 customers in China and we believe we are building stronger relationships than ever in that community.
We've established a strong team in China that is performing well.
As you may have heard earlier this week Brazil's Ministry of Health conducted its reverse auction to equip its public health care centers with 80 linear accelerators.
I'm pleased to report that Varian was the successful bidder and we are now working with the Ministry of Health to finalize the deal.
This calls for delivery of our digital Clinac CX accelerators over the next several years for some $55.5 million.
We are pleased with the outcome proud of our team's performance and excited about the prospect of helping Brazil reach its goal of giving more cancer patients access to radiotherapy.
This is an expanding market for radiotherapy.
Turning to the U.S we continue to see growing interest in our new stereotactic radiosurgery products as well as in our software and service offerings that we believe are setting the stage for long-term growth.
This is largely a replacement market.
At the moment the U.S.
market is challenged by ongoing uncertainties related to the implementation of health care reform cumulative cuts and reimbursements for freestanding clinics and consolidation of radiation oncology centers.
We believe these factors are causing customers to change business models and to slow purchasing decisions.
One impact of this was that our short cycle upgrade business where orders typically convert to sales within the same quarter were lighter than we anticipated.
We continue to believe that market adoption of stereotactic radiosurgery will be a catalyst for replacing aging equipment with new products such as our EDGE systems and upgrade packages as well as our more advanced software tools.
As we've noted in earlier discussions the proposed reimbursement rates for 2014 support investment in modern treatment systems and radiosurgery capability.
We are hopeful that the new rates will be finalized on schedule next month now that the 2-week government shutdown is behind us.
Our Oncology Service business grew 12% during the quarter driven by higher capture rates and more software service agreements.
TrueBeam contracts continue to drive global growth in the business.
During the quarter we received the CE Mark for our EDGE radiosurgery system enabling us to move forward in marketing this product now in most major markets of the world.
The first treatment using an EDGE system is slated to take place at Champalimaud Centre in Lisbon.
To date we have received orders for more than 10 EDGE systems as well as more than 50 EDGE technology upgrade packages.
We also saw increased traction during the quarter in our Calypso motion management systems for enhancing radiosurgery precision.
This underlines the growing interest in stereotactic radiosurgery.
At last month's ASTRO show we unveiled RapidPlan a game-changing software for enhancing the quality standards speed and cost efficiency of treatment planning.
This introduction generated great interest among customers at the show and reinforces our global leadership in radiotherapy treatment planning software.
This month we received 510(k) clearance to begin marketing and selling RapidPlan to the more than 3 000 customers who already have installations or Eclipse Treatment Planning software.
This represents a several hundred million dollar opportunity for our Oncology business.
Innovation and new product development is a key to our strategy and we increased our R&amp;D investment during the quarter and for the year.
We see a lot of growth opportunities for the company and we have stepped up R&amp;D particularly on global product opportunities and software in Oncology Systems.
Turning to X-ray Products.
Fourth quarter gross orders rose 26% to $183 million and gross orders for the fiscal year rose 15% to $585 million.
Our X-ray Products business generated double-digit order growth for the quarter and the fiscal year in both tubes and flat panels.
Our components are being designed to the next-generation imaging equipment from several large manufacturers and we're growing by gaining share in this market.
The quarter was particularly strong for our flat-panel digital image detectors which grew orders by more than 30% thanks to the continued shift away from film-based imaging to the speed convenience and cost efficiency of filmless imaging.
This growth occurred in spite of enhanced pricing pressure in the panel business.
We also saw market acceptance for our new mammography panel which should bolster sales in fiscal year '14.
We enjoyed double-digit order growth in our Tubes business thanks to large orders from existing customers and the addition of significant new customers who should help to drive growth going forward.
We also gained ground with our patented anode grounded technology.
Our imaging workstations and image processing software offerings are beginning to gain traction among some of our bigger customers as well.
The company's Other category which is comprised of the Security and Inspection Products business the Varian Particle Therapy business and the Ginzton Technology Center recorded gross orders of $18 million in the fourth quarter and $86 million for the full fiscal year 2013 down $130 million from the prior year when the company booked 2 proton orders totaling over $120 million.
Varian Particle Therapy achieved an important landmark during the quarter with the filing of our 510(k) clearance with the FDA which is an important step closer to the first patient treatments at the Scripps Proton Therapy center in San Diego.
Now I'll turn it over to Elisha.
Thanks Dow and hello everyone.
Let me start by talking about the backlog adjustment in the quarter.
Historically we have reported net orders which we have defined as new or gross orders minus customer cancellations currency adjustments and other orders that we no longer expect to convert to revenue.
Looking back over the last several years annual backlog adjustments typically have been between 3% and 5% of total company backlog.
Given a larger than typical level of cancellations this quarter particularly from small freestanding center developers as well as the ongoing uncertainty in the U.S.
health care environment we reevaluated similar transactions and decided to remove $156 million from our backlog.
This brings the total backlog adjustment for the fiscal year to $255 million about 4% more than in a typical year.
In order to provide you with an additional level of detail going forward beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013 we are changing the presentation of orders to gross orders.
Net orders will be given for comparison purposes.
While Dow has already covered orders I want to briefly talk about the constant currency growth rates for the quarter.
In comparing quarter-over-quarter exchange rates there was a significant negative impact from the weakening of the yen and a small benefit from the strengthening of the euro and other currencies.
Oncology gross orders for the quarter increased 3% in dollars and were up 5% in constant currency.
Oncology's North American gross orders were down 6% in dollars and in constant currency.
EMEA gross orders increased about 13% in dollars and 10% in constant currency.
Asia where we saw a roughly 25% quarter-over-quarter weakening of the yen was up 2% in dollars but up 14% in constant currency.
Oncology gross orders in the small rest of world market grew by about 40% in dollars and constant currency.
Fourth quarter revenues for the total company increased 2% in dollars and 3% in constant currency.
For the full fiscal year total company revenues were up 5% in dollars and up 6% in constant currency.
And while we don't capture FX-adjusted revenue by business virtually the entire effect of the significant yen decline was felt in Oncology Systems where we sell in local currency.
To put this in perspective for the full fiscal year the yen negatively impacted Oncology Systems revenues by roughly $30 million.
Our X-ray components businesses sell almost exclusively in dollars and therefore were not impacted.
Oncology Systems posted a 1% decline in revenues during the quarter with revenue split evenly between North America and the rest of the global markets.
While our customers generally took delivery of equipment in backlog as we expected oncology revenue was $10 million to $15 million lighter than we anticipated due to short-cycle upgrade business that did not materialize in the quarter.
For the full year Oncology revenues were up 3% to $2.3 billion.
Service performed well with revenues up 9% in the quarter and up 12% for the year accounting for 35% of total Oncology revenue.
X-ray Products posted a fourth quarter revenue gain of 6% with Tubes up slightly from the year-ago quarter and Panels up in double digits.
For the year X-ray Products revenues increased 11% with 8% growth in Tubes and 14% growth in Panels.
This business achieved a milestone with Flat Panels exceeding more than 50% of the X-ray Products business for the year.
Revenues from businesses under the Other category increased by $11 million for the quarter and the year due to continued progress in completing our Scripps Saudi and Russia Proton Therapy projects.
Total company gross margins for the quarter was 42.7% about equal with the year-ago quarter.
Similarly for the full year total company gross margin was 42.5% also about equal to the year-ago period.
Oncology Systems gross margins was 43% down from the year-ago period by 0.5 points including a $2-million impact from the excise tax.
For the full fiscal year Oncology Systems gross margin was 43.3% down about 40 basis points from last fiscal year due to the excise tax.
We continue to believe that Oncology can sustain margins in the 43% to 44% range.
X-ray Products gross margin for the quarter was 42.2% down about 1 point from the year-ago period due to the continued pricing pressure in the Panels business.
For the full year the X-ray Products gross margin was 41.5% down about 1.5 points from last year again due to Panel pricing.
We continue to believe that this business can sustain gross margins in the low 40% level.
Fourth quarter SG&amp;A expenses were $111 million or 14% of revenues a slight improvement as a percentage of revenues from the year-ago quarter.
Fourth quarter R&amp;D expenses were $57 million or 7% of revenues up 1 point as a percent of revenues from the year-ago quarter due to stepped up investments and our product pipeline.
For the full year operating expenses were 22% of revenue up slightly from last year.
Fourth quarter operating earnings totaled $161 million or 21% of revenues down about 1 point reflecting our increased investment in R&amp;D.
For the full fiscal year the operating margin was 20.7% of revenues down 0.5 points from the previous year including the impact of the excise tax.
Depreciation and amortization totaled $15 million for the quarter and $63 million for the fiscal year.
The effective tax rate was 27.5% for the quarter and 28.4% for the year.
Fully diluted shares outstanding decreased from the year ago quarter to 108.8 million due largely to our ongoing share repurchase program.
And diluted EPS was $1.08 for the fourth quarter and $3.98 for the fiscal year.
Turning to the balance sheet.
During the quarter we secured a new $500 million 5-year term loan and maintained a $300 million revolving line of credit.
We ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $1.1 billion debt of $506 million and stockholders' equity of $1.7 billion.
DSO at 85 was equal to the year-ago quarter and up 1 day from the previous quarter.
Fourth quarter cash flow from operations was $155 million significantly higher than net income due to working capital improvements.
Year-to-date cash flow from operations was $455 million.
Primary uses of cash were $135 million towards the repurchase of 1.9 million shares of stock.
At the end of the quarter we had 2 million shares remaining under the existing repurchase authorization that extends through calendar year 2013.
Now I'll turn it back over to Dow for the outlook.
Thanks Elisha.
We remain confident and committed to executing on our strategic initiatives global growth innovation software and service commercializing in protons and operational excellence.
Our product line and global presence has never been stronger.
The company is driving for continued growth in all of our businesses during fiscal year 2014.
For the first quarter of fiscal year 2014 we expect revenues to grow by 6% to 7% and earnings per diluted share to be in the range of $0.87 to $0.91 per share.
For fiscal year 2014 we expect revenues to grow in the range of 6% to 8% and earnings per diluted share to be in the range of $4.22 to $4.34.
We're now ready for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Amit Bhalla from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start with fiscal '14 guidance for a second.
Can you just walk us through what the underlying assumptions are for revenue and what you're including in on proton? And walk us also through the leverage.
There's not as much leverage from the 6% to 8% revenue to the earnings number you've outlined so can you just explain the earnings and revenue on guidance? Sure.
Let me just kind of give you the walk on fiscal year '14.
So sales should be up for total company between 6% and 8%.
Remember the yen is significantly weaker now than in the year-ago first half about 20% to 25%.
The euro is a little stronger but it doesn't completely offset the yen.
In that number our core businesses if I look at Oncology and the X-ray Products group it's going to increase somewhere between the 5% and 6% range on a combined basis.
So we are expecting some significant pickup in proton revenue in the year.
Amit it's difficult just given the timing of these deals but I'm anticipating anywhere from $100 million to $150 million.
So I just picked the midpoint at $125 million and it's going to be -- that's going to be somewhere around a 15% gross margin.
So the gross margin at about 42% is down about 0.5 point year-over-year primarily due to the increased proton revenue at a significantly lower margin.
And we do have an additional quarter of excise tax that we didn't have last year.
I'd say both Oncology and X-ray we're anticipating to be in that range of margins that we've talked about.
So they're doing a good job of sustaining that.
And the ROS or EBIT margin is somewhere between 20% 21%.
Again it's going to be a little lower due primarily to the gross margin and the higher proton revenue.
We are increasing R&amp;D in oncology.
But as a percentage of revenue because proton is growing so rapidly total company should stay at about that 7%.
Tax around 28% and then that gets you to the EPS guidance that we gave you.
Research Division</strong> And then just a second follow-up question on just this shift to gross orders and the cancellations.
I'm just trying to understand the rationale because you can make the one quarter adjustment and take these cancellations out.
And then going forward are you assuming that there's more volatility in your cancellation rates? Because I would just assume you would just continue to report net orders unless you're thinking that cancellation rates are going to be more volatile going forward.
Can you help explain this rationale? Yes sure.
Let's start with just repeating why the adjustment again.
We did have an unusual level of cancellations in the quarter.
These were primarily large orders with small freestanding clinic developers that did not move forward.
The U.S.
health care environment especially in this freestanding clinic environment cumulative with years of reimbursement cuts the ongoing uncertainty related to the implementation of longer-term health care reform on them and just what we've seen in terms of some consolidation in that market and purchasing delays at the end of this last quarter especially as there was a lot of conversation around the repeal of the excise tax you know that caused people I think to delay.
And so we went and looked at what had happened there and the environment led us to reevaluate order firmness of similar customers.
And that's how we netted out to the adjustment.
I'll let Elisha talk about some of your other questions more directly here.
Sure.
Well the good news Amit is now in terms of these small freestanding centers -- I mean in total freestanding centers are now less than 5% of the company's total backlog.
And what's remaining tend to be the large stable customers and they are continuing to expand.
So I want to stress that the type of customers that we were talking about that came out of backlog were very different.
Roughly half the adjustment was from cancellations and about half from this reevaluation that we did of similar customers that were in backlog.
In terms of volatility you're going to see both.
You're going to get both growth and you're going to get net and you're going to get ending backlog.
So I think it gives you more level of detail.
Historically the adjustments have been about 4% in any given year.
I don't expect that's going to change significantly but you'll be able to see that quarter-over-quarter.
And we think it gives you a good reflection of actually what's going on currently in the market environment that we're dealing in when you have the gross orders.
Our next question comes from Jeff Johnson from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> So just a couple more questions on I guess EPS guidance more than anything for next year.
So Elisha I'm trying to understand -- I mean the yen is basically 6 months into its big move here.
So the year-over-year kind of impact for next year shouldn't be hugely different than the incremental headwind yet this year.
Brazil is there anything from your guidance in Brazil at this point? I guess that's what I'm trying to figure out if that's why EPS was so much lower.
There are some losses in year one of the Brazil deal that might be in guidance for next year? Very little.
I mean we are -- this just happened this week obviously.
We're still talking with the MOH negotiating contracts which is going to take us a bit of time to complete.
We're just now starting to discuss what their delivery schedule plans are for this year and beyond.
So we don't -- we think the impact to FY '14 is likely to be fairly small.
We don't disclose gross margin by region or by customer obviously.
But as we promised the equipment margin is lower on this deal.
But looking forward over the long term particularly if you look at what service and upgrade opportunities we have we think this is profitable for Varian and we're very excited about it.
Even if you look out over 5 years it's going to represent about 2% of our total delivery.
So again it's a very large deal but when you spread it over 5 years the impact should not be that significant in any given quarter or any given year.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Then the follow-up there I guess -- but I would assume if -- at $55 million on Brazil at best probably over a 5- or 6-year period is somewhere near break even hopefully a little positive but near break even.
So in the first year or 2 how much dilution should we think from that number one? And then just again kind of trying to understand the bridge on guidance I thought there was going to be about a $0.06 gain from the University of Maryland deal this year.
Is that $0.06 gain in fiscal '14 in that low guidance number you've put out now for this next year? So again we -- it's way too early on Brazil to know what deliveries they want this year.
Again my assumption is that it's going to have a minimal impact on FY '14.
It's really more of an FY '15 and '16.
In terms of the guidance -- I mean the timing of not just Maryland but all proton deals is -- it's just -- it's very difficult to predict.
If that comes through in the short term we should be at the higher end of guidance.
So yes.
I mean of course this proton business -- I think it's about a $0.10.
That's why we put a pretty wide range on our guidance this year.
It comes down to the timing of these deals some of which are already in backlog some which are not.
I mean I have to say the Maryland -- the building the project is progressing nicely.
They are not yet ready for equipment.
They've completed equity financing.
They're making progress with the debt and they're working with the German trade bank which just is complicated and takes time to do.
So when we get all the t's crossed and i's dotted we'll book the order and start recording revenue at that time.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then last question I promise just on R&amp;D.
Dow you talked about this at ASTRO when you and I met that R&amp;D -- you had so many projects you wanted to invest in.
We see R&amp;D up significantly year-over-year this quarter.
It sounds like -- I guess how would you quantify Elisha or Dow how much R&amp;D might be weighing on EPS next year? I know you said 7% of sales but it sounds like x proton kind of the rest of the R&amp;D budget is going up pretty significantly.
Any color you can provide on the projects there and the impact that's having next year? Within Oncology I'd say the 2 investment areas we're making are in the software area.
We think there's a big opportunity especially in informatics.
That's a global opportunity.
And we think we've got a really good space to grow there in both the U.S.
and outside of the U.S.
And then I'll say the rest is really in global product opportunities hardware and software but we've got a number of nice initiatives going on to make sure we've got global product lined up for markets where we struggle with complexity of existing systems.
And customers want very high capability at a good price.
And of course we want to maintain our margin on those product offerings.
So that's a key investment area for us.
Those are the 2 big areas.
And Jeff once you pencil this out in your model you'll see that the absolute dollars are going up roughly 10%.
Most of that increase is in Oncology Systems.
But as a percentage of revenue it's about flat given the sizable increase in proton revenues that we're expecting.
Our next question comes from Steve Beuchaw from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification.
In your prepared remarks Elisha as you were discussing the backlog adjustment it sounded like it was predominantly freestanding partially hospitals where you're seeing the change in the market.
And Dow you've pointed out a number of issues in the freestanding center market that drove the backlog adjustment.
Is this 80-20 freestanding versus hospitals where the issues are driving the adjustment? I think that's probably a fair assumption Steve.
Yes yes.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess given that backdrop it's a little surprising to see the adjustment given that we had the solid proposals out there on the reimbursement rates for '14.
I wonder Dow if you could just give us your latest thoughts on the outlook for the market in the U.S.
When does it get better? What might the market for orders look like over the next year or so? Yes.
I'll start by saying the proposal is not good for the freestanding centers and it's kind of the cumulative impact of reimbursement rate reductions that we've seen for freestanding centers over the last 3 or 4 years.
So -- and I think we've been pretty consistent about pointing that out.
The proposal is fairly good on the hospital side.
We understand that the release of the final rules may be delayed a few weeks.
Frankly the delay shouldn't have a material effect on the market for 2014 and the rates should still go into effect on January 1 at least that's what we're hearing.
Just to kind of review for everybody the hospitals are positive.
It's focused on a higher-end capability so stereotactic radiosurgery and IMRT are up if the proposal bill is adopted and it's down for 2D and 3D conformal radiation therapy.
But we like the fact that it encourages advanced treatments and it also should encourage the replacement of older installed base.
So that's good news.
I think on the overall market side so we are seeing activity in the hospital side.
There is a lot of old equipment out there.
The freestanding clinics has been very quiet.
I think we're getting to that period where that's starting to anniversary now and it's going to be less of a factor moving forward.
I think seeing what happens in the final proposal is critical.
And if it remains as proposed I think that'll be fairly good news on the hospital side although there may be some movement.
And maybe just to add a point here and that is we are seeing a fair amount of activity in the U.S.
around our EDGE product and stereotactic body radiation therapy in particular that stereotactic radiosurgery as well.
And as you know the reimbursement rates between those products and the Gamma Knife was equalized this past year.
And in all the proposals that also remains the same though up a little bit from where it was.
Actually not a little bit up quite a bit from where it was in the July timeframe.
And we're seeing a fair amount of activity in that part of our funnel.
Our next question comes from Jason Wittes from Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> I guess 2 questions.
One if I could follow up on that.
In terms of Dow the cascade of when you think this activity leads to actual order rates.
I mean how should we be thinking about that especially through the course of 2014? I'm going to be a little careful until I see the reimbursement proposal finalized.
I think -- the good news is we're seeing a lot of activity but I think it's -- I think people know a sequestration coming at the end of the quarter and Washington shutting down I think there were some people that got conservative especially as the excise tax got discussed.
And I think that's kind of where we saw the impact in our short cycle revenue opportunities.
So we're hoping that business will come back but I think until the proposal comes out I'd be a little careful on -- no I think if the proposal stays as is I think we'll have a -- it'll be a good year in the U.S.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for another follow-up.
I guess my understanding is the CX linear accelerators that you sold for the Brazilian contract lists for about $1 million.
So -- and the price that works out if I do the math is something like $650 000 per machine.
Is that the right way to think about it? And are you still making a profit off those sales with that -- if those are the right assumptions? I think -- let's start with -- we found out the news on Monday afternoon.
We're extremely pleased.
We executed our strategy very successfully.
I can confirm that it's $55.5 million.
The deal will be dilutive in the short term.
As Elisha said we're not sure it has that big an impact in 2014 probably a bigger impact in '15 and '16.
And then of course in the long term with the upgrade and service opportunities as Elisha mentioned it will be profitable.
Over the course of this product development we've got a lot of opportunity for volume-based cost reduction and sourcing savings.
This is the largest single deal in the history of radiation therapy by at least a factor of 2.
And so we're confident we can get some of the cost out.
Our next question comes from David Roman from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I know that a lot of questions going through sort of the details on the moving parts in the quarter but I was hoping you could give us a little bit of a broader perspective on what you think is happening in the U.S.
market.
I guess specifically what I'm asking is if I try to tie a lot of the pieces here together between changes in the business model to customer level reimbursement pressure in freestanding clinics consolidation among radiation oncology practices.
Are the number of bunkers in the U.S.
shrinking? Was there overconstruction during a period of time? And if that is a fair assessment how do we think about the underlying growth of the sort of the available addressable market going forward? I don't have hard data for you but I would say with the consolidation there has been some very small reduction in the number of bunkers out there.
So we are seeing some of that go on.
But I think mostly the number of bunkers is -- and I'd say at the margin that's very small.
So I think we're seeing people just be very careful in this timeframe especially our freestanding customers being very careful about how they invest and where they invest.
And they're looking for local regional consolidation opportunities on the freestanding side.
On the hospital side of the market we're not seeing that at all.
We're seeing growth.
We're seeing a lot of excitement about new applications especially in brain and body stereotactic radiation therapy and we're excited about that.
I think the other factor is the baby boomers are retiring and moving into the demographic that needs this kind of equipment and we're seeing good demographic over the next -- that's a longer-term thing.
But I'd say on the freestanding side David some consolidation.
On the hospital side we're seeing investment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just a follow-up and Elisha I appreciate the comments on the earlier question regarding the bridge between FY '13 and FY '14 but maybe if I could just go a little bit deeper into -- when I look at the orders or net orders that you reported in FY '13 versus FY '12 they look to be down year-over-year but you are guiding to a reasonable amount of revenue growth next year.
And even when you adjust for the proton contribution it still looks like revenue growth will meaningfully exceed order trends in fiscal '13.
And then on the P&amp;L side of the equation you bought back a ton of stock this year and got to earnings that I think were roughly flattish year-over-year.
So just wondering about how we think about the order to revenue tie and then your flexibility to continue to repurchase shares at this rate.
Sure.
Well David I mean if I look at it if you exclude protons on a gross basis orders for the total company are actually up 4%.
So our short cycle businesses and X-ray Flat Panel is growing well.
Our Service business is growing clearly in double digits.
Oncology's backlog even with this adjustment is up about 2%.
So we blend all of that together and we think our core businesses can grow in that 5% to 6% range.
Of course our X-ray Products business and our Service business have to continue to perform.
And you're right protons has the ability to get us a couple of points above that assuming we can hit that $125 million or so number in proton revenue depending on the timing.
In terms of leverage we have consistently bought back shares.
We spent virtually every dollar that we generate in the U.S.
on share buybacks.
You should expect that we'll continue to purchase between 1 million to 2 million shares per quarter.
It's very accretive when we're borrowing at less than 1.5% pretax right now.
And you'll note that we did take out a debt facility to give us some flexibility so that we can continue on that share repurchase program and continue to return capital to shareholders.
Maybe just coming back a minute to the overall growth in orders.
I think we hit the North America piece pretty hard on gross orders.
Year-over-year North America was down 6% in Q4 versus a very strong year ago comp and I think we've talked through the reasons why.
But I think we have to talk just for a minute about some of the other regions.
In Europe Middle East Africa on the quarter we had a very good quarter.
We were up 13% up 10% in constant currency.
We had strength in the Scandinavian countries Switzerland Africa and we're starting to see some traction in those markets from our Siemens relationship.
In Asia we were up 2% 14% in constant currency.
As I said in the text China was up 30% and Japan was very strong.
We had a huge Q4 last year in Korea and other parts of Southeast Asia.
So the overall was a little quiet but we were really pleased with the ongoing sustaining growth that we've had in China.
Rest of world was up 42% 44% in constant currency.
We had very strong growth in Latin America.
And before this Brazil tender we had good strong double-digit growth last year in Brazil even outside of the tender.
Now so that's kind of the roundup on the region.
So again pretty strong very strong o- U.S.
performance.
Our next question comes from Amit Hazan from SunTrust Bank.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question again on the order revision.
If we kind of think about that $156 million coming out of backlog this quarter I'm wondering if you could give us a little bit more color on the age of those orders and maybe how long they've been in backlog? I know that varies but just a little bit of color on what we should be thinking about there in terms of how long that's been in the backlog.
And maybe what you think might need to happen for any of those to potentially come back to become orders again? Sure.
Well Amit I mean this is -- I think this has been accumulative over say the last 3 years.
I mean at the time we booked the order we believed the order was firm and had an estimated delivery date within the 2-year period.
Some of those did age beyond that.
And then with yet another reimbursement cut as Dow has already outlined all of the reasons we did see a higher level of cancellations.
I have to say though I mean in any quarter we have backlog adjustments.
And so if this had been a typical quarter we would've probably had somewhere between $30 million and $40 million of just typical backlog adjustments.
So that net amount of call it $120 million that's what we're talking about as this subset of our backlog that really deserved a very strong look and a reevaluation of whether or not those orders were still firm.
It is possible that these orders could come back.
I'm not counting on it.
But again the good news is in terms of freestanding centers in backlog today less than 5%.
Half of them were cancellations in fact so we wouldn't expect those to come back.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up on Brazil.
I'm just wondering if you have any plans to increase manufacturing in Brazil to any extent with regard to this deal whether you think there are any orders beyond the 80 for that market or whether it gets pretty saturated at that point in terms of new units and what the implications are strategically for you in South America from winning this deal? We think this is a great opportunity for us.
It's interesting when you look at the Brazil market -- you've heard us talk about some of the benchmarks in terms of Linacs per million people.
When you kind of look at that analysis we think that over the next 3 years there will be 250-ish Linacs that go into Brazil.
So this is a small piece of that big market that's down there.
So we're excited about that opportunity.
There are requirements in the tender for local content and the tender also has the capability of going to 100 units.
It's a minimum commitment of 80 and the Ministry of Health can go to 100 units within the context of this tender.
But we're excited about the long-term opportunity.
And as we said before there will be service opportunity and upgrade opportunity over and above the $55.5 million over the life of these accelerators.
Our next question comes from Jeff Feffer from Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> I guess first just very quickly coming back to the U.S.
on this short cycle upgrade delays you were seeing is this something that we can expect? I mean I know this is kind of -- you have a confluence of a lot of challenges now with the ACA coming online and sort of some residual effect of CapEx constraints.
Is this something that we can expect going forward? Or do we look at this kind of as a 1- or 2-quarter blip? So Jeff I mean if we look back historically every quarter we have anywhere between $40 million and $60 million of upgrade business.
And this is things such as RapidArc OBI multileaf collimators some of our accessories which tend to be high margin anywhere from 60% if it's hardware to 80% if it's software.
And no it just did not materialize as we expected in the quarter.
However the good news was the EDGE upgrades which we're not yet shipping those came in very strong in the quarter.
So I think it had a little bit to do with the mix as well and we won't be shipping the EDGE upgrades until we get into our fiscal second quarter I believe is the target date on that.
And I think the other thing I'd add is I think we might have some upside next year with RapidPlan upgrades.
We introduced this at ASCO this last year as you saw.
The customer reception was outstanding and we'll start shipping those as well this next year and that probably have some upside on the upgrades number for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then shifting over to EDGE and now that you see your mark and are ready to launch there can you just give maybe a little bit more color on the opportunities and the interest you're seeing in Europe and Asia and how you expect that market to be segmented between the early TrueBeam interest there versus EDGE? How are those going to sort of work together? I'll keep it pretty simple.
Between Gamma Knife and CyberKnife we think it's about 100- to 120-unit market and we really want to penetrate that market.
The upgrade opportunity is significant in our own installed base and that's kind of what you've seen in the numbers from this last year.
But with our first system going to Champalimaud late this year and really kind of getting now into the production phase of this product people being able to kick the tires and see it.
We really want to drive share in that new unit market and that's what we're targeting.
Our next question comes from Anthony Petrone from Jefferies Group.
Research Division</strong> First one on the backlog I'm wondering if you can maybe give us some color on were those existing customers that are simply no longer there? And if so does that mean in the future we should see a write-down of receivables from things such as service contracts that were in place? And then a couple of follow-ups on Brazil and guidance.
Anthony no.
The answer is no.
I mean the fact it's sitting in backlog and is taken out it did not turn into revenue and therefore did not create an AR.
So these were mostly small freestanding developers who were going to go out and develop these clinics.
We do not have an AR risk associated with them.
Research Division</strong> Great great.
And on Brazil wondering if you can maybe give us a little bit of an indication as to sort of the types of machines you'd be selling in there? Will they be completely new machines or refurbished machines? These will all be new machines all new digital machines.
Clinac EX is part of our Clinac series.
A product that's got a terrific history and doing patients in every geography of the world.
Research Division</strong> And then last on guidance Elisha.
Maybe can you just remind where you are in terms of restructuring? I know there were some programs in place.
Where those programs are and maybe how those play into the earnings guidance for '14? Well we had a restructuring charge last year.
Most of it was in our first fiscal quarter some in our second fiscal quarter.
I believe the total was $6.5 million roughly.
And that was largely so that we could redistribute employees into growing markets and that's largely been done.
So as we speak right now I don't expect any other restructuring charges.
We had it as a retirement program that was very positively received.
But I'm not anticipating anything else at this point.
Research Division</strong> Well in terms maybe of the benefit of those restructuring programs in terms of restructuring the business from say oncology -- I know Kolleen had spoke about restructuring the oncology business quite a bit at the midyear review.
And so the actual benefit of that over time from a margin standpoint when should we see the benefit from those efforts? I think as we -- the big issue for us here is redeploying the resources.
So we've had restructuring in mature markets so that we can invest in growing markets.
And that's so -- it's kind of good news bad news.
Good news is we had a restructuring; bad news is we've been reinvesting it to make sure that we're positioned for growth markets as part of our strategy to be a multi-domestic company and make sure we've got a great global footprint.
Yes.
And SG&amp;A was down very slightly as a percentage of revenue.
So we are focused on controlling those costs and putting the dollars in R&amp;D as we talked about.
Research Division</strong> All very hopeful.
Just maybe one last one on X-rays.
The order number was quite big.
Maybe can you speak about was that the catch-up order on inventory drawdowns from some of your customers from prior periods? I'm sorry we missed that question.
It was X-ray orders.
We had a very good quarter in X-ray on the quarter.
It was broad-based in both tubes and detectors.
The Panel business we had a number of our large customers ordering strongly Carestream Toshiba [indiscernible] and Siemens.
On the Tube side we also had big orders from Toshiba Hitachi and Hologic as well as a number of new customers in the Tube business.
So that business really ended the year with strong order momentum and sets us up for a good revenue year here in 2014 towards our X-ray components business.
Our last question comes from the line of Tycho Peterson from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Not to beat a dead horse on Brazil but one of the things it does is kind of highlight the consolidation of purchasing power in this case as you mentioned it the largest order ever.
Do you worry about the precedent being set here in particular with the U.S.? I mean they are going to look at the potential to consolidate purchasing power and try to get larger tenders together? I think a couple of things.
The second largest unit order we've seen is and I'm guessing 20 to 25 units so kind of a quarter of the size.
We have seen some kind of 10-unit orders in the U.S.
The kinds of equipment that people order in the U.S.
and in Western Europe is a dramatically different configuration totally totally different.
For example on these accelerators in Brazil there's no imaging.
There's not a portal imager and there's not a kilovoltage imager.
Long term we think that's a nice upgrade opportunity for those systems.
But virtually every system that we sell in the U.S.
and in Western Europe for that matter has a portal imager and a kilovoltage imager.
So as we look back on the year our pricing was stable.
We were pleased with the pricing performance in the overall business as we look forward.
If there's another 80-unit tender we're going to go compete on it as I'm sure our competitors are as well.
But we think this is a pretty isolated case.
Research Division</strong> And then on margins I mean EBIT margins are down from -- have been down for a couple of years now.
And despite revenue growth next year it looks like there's still going to be some margin erosion.
Can you maybe just talk about in longer-term how you're thinking about middle-of-the-balance-sheet leverage and your overall cost structure? Obviously you made some changes when you first came on a year ago.
But talk to how you're feeling about your cost structure today.
Yes I might -- I think I'll let Elisha fix this after I'm done.
But at a very high level we have a regional shift from a high U.S.
margin business to a faster-growing international business so that's downward pressure offset by product mix which is favorable for us for software and services.
So as we look forward we're doing everything we can to have those offset each other.
At the same time Kolleen and her team are driving very hard the variable cost productivity piece of the equation.
We've had very good progress this last year.
I think you've seen some of the numbers in installations and warranties.
That's been terrific on TrueBeam.
In the second half of the year it had very nice traction.
And so I think we've got some nice very soft productivity activities going on throughout the business.
So the game is can we have those offset each other going forward? Yes.
And Tycho let me just clarify that next year the Oncology margin is actually -- it's going up a little bit.
And it was even year-over-year this year of course for the fourth quarter and the year.
X-ray and oncology will be in that range that we talked about.
The entire impact of that 50 basis point year-over-year has to do with the additional proton revenue at a much much lower margin and an extra quarter of excise tax.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could squeeze just one quick one in at the end.
On Siemens there's a lot of excitement when you took over a year ago Dow on that JV.
I mean can you just talk to how it's tracked? We don't hear as much about it lately.
Just wondering if it's lived up to your expectations.
I think it took us longer quite frankly than we thought to get it going.
So we'll admit that.
But we had some very nice deals in Q4 happen.
We're pleased about that.
The sales funnel is growing.
I think one of the things that we are hearing as a big positive from customers is that they now have a choice.
These are customers who did not have a choice before.
It was kind of Elekta or LANTIS and nothing else.
ASTRO to 100% of the Siemens installed base.
So we're starting to see some good movement.
You heard me mention earlier that we saw some activity in Europe just last quarter.
And so we're -- I'd say I think it's fair to say that it took us a little longer to get this going than we thought it would when we first got in but we're starting to see some nice activity I think on both sides.
At this time I'd like to turn the call back to our speakers for closing comments.
Thank you for participating.
A replay of this call can be heard on Varian's investor website at www.varian.com/investor where it will be archived for a year.
To hear a telephone replay please dial 1 (877) 660-6853 from inside the U.S.
or 1 (201) 612-7415 from outside the U.S.
and entering confirmation code 422052.
The telephone replay will be available from -- through 5:00 p.m.
Friday October 25.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Varian Medical Systems First Quarter 2013 (sic) [First Quarter 2014] Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Spencer Sias Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications for Varian Medical Systems.
Thank you Mr.
Sias.
You may now begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and welcome to Varian Medical Systems conference call for the first quarter of fiscal year 2014.
With me are Dow Wilson President and CEO; Elisha Finney CFO; and Clarence Verhoef our Corporate Controller.
Dow and Elisha will summarize our results and we'll take your questions following the presentation.
To simplify our discussion unless otherwise stated all references to the quarter or year are fiscal quarters and fiscal years.
Quarterly comparisons are for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 versus the first quarter of fiscal 2013.
Please be advised that this presentation and discussion contains forward-looking statements.
Our use of words and phrases such as outlook could believe can expect will hope target likely and similar expressions are intended to identify those statements which represent our current judgment on future performance or other future matters.
While we believe them to be reasonable based on information currently available to us these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of the important risks relating to our business are described in our first quarter earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements in this presentation and discussion because of new information future events or otherwise.
[Operator Instructions] And now here's Dow.
Good afternoon and welcome.
We are reporting results that we believe put us on track for hitting our revenue and earnings targets for the fiscal year.
To summarize our financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 versus the year-ago period revenues rose 5% to $712 million.
Our gross margin grew by 60 basis points to 43.5%.
Our operating margin remained about level even after a significant step-up in our R&amp;D investments and our net earnings grew by 6% to $0.91 per diluted share.
We had several positive developments subsequent to the close of the quarter.
This includes the big win for oncology in Algeria our announcement of an expanded agreement to supply an estimated $550 million in imaging components to Toshiba and a 510(k) clearance from the FDA for our ProBeam proton therapy system.
I'll focus now on the operational highlights of our businesses in the quarter.
Oncology Systems grew gross orders by 5% to $533 million for the quarter with the help of strong 13% order growth in North America where we saw a broad-based increase in hospital purchasing activity.
Hospitals accounted for the lion's share of our orders in North America.
We booked $19 million in orders related to agreements with 2 large health systems in the U.S.
to supply a total of $50 million in equipment and services for their consolidated networks over the next several years.
The remainder of these orders we booked over the terms of the agreement.
Numerous takeouts of competitor's software and hardware products including several aging Siemens and TomoTherapy machines added to Oncology's growth in this market.
New products including our EDGE platform and upgrade for stereotactic radiosurgery also contributed to our orders growth in North America.
Our newly introduced RapidPlan software for fast and high-quality knowledge-based treatment planning got off to a solid -- a good start with several orders including one that was coupled with the replacement of a competitor's accelerator.
We continue to see signs that the Affordable Care Act is causing decision-makers at treatment centers to sharpen their focus on both clinical efficacy and cost efficiency.
Our oncology product line is closely aligned with this focus and we believe our competitive position is stronger than ever.
During the quarter health authorities in the U.S.
recommended lung cancer screening for people deemed to have a higher risk of developing this disease.
This recommendation could result in earlier diagnosis for a large number of cases that could be treated with lung radiosurgery.
We are hopeful that this prompts more centers in the U.S.
to acquire and use our radiosurgery products to help these patients.
Turning to markets outside of North America gross orders were relatively flat in EMEA where weak equipment purchases were offset by robust gains in our service business.
The sales funnel in EMEA continues to look promising despite the ways that pushed potential deals in several nations outside of the quarter.
We believe our market share in this region is stable.
In India TrueBeam enjoyed continued success during the quarter with 5 wins including a key placement in the National Oncology Centre at Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai.
As an aside TrueBeam constituted more than 60% of total high-energy machine orders in the quarter.
We have now booked more than 1 000 orders for TrueBeam and completed more than 600 installations since its introduction in 2010.
We had a big win after the close of the quarter in Algeria where we've entered into an agreement to supply the Ministry of Health with $51 million in equipment and service for 6 centers over the next 5 years.
We expect to book about half of this order during the second quarter and the remainder as delivery sites and dates are set.
In Asia oncology gross orders for the first quarter declined as a result of softness in both Japan and China.
Slower repurchasing activity competitive pressure negative currency fluctuations and a tough year-ago comparison resulted in a significant decline in Japanese orders during the quarter.
In China first quarter gross orders fell slightly versus the year-ago period due to delays in purchasing decisions.
We believe these decisions will be finalized later in the year.
Both TrueBeam and UNIQUE have established firm footholds in the China market and we believe they help Varian to gain share there during the quarter.
In Brazil we had another quarter of strong order growth even though we have not yet booked any orders from the tender we won for 80 machines.
We expect to book orders relating to this tender as sites and shipment schedules are set.
In the meantime clinicians have continued to show interest in upgrading purchases to deliver IMRT which is now being formally reimbursed by private insurers with the government likely to follow.
In total gross orders for Latin America and the rest of the world declined by 5% versus the year-ago quarter.
Service represented a record 40% of oncology gross orders in the quarter and continued to be an important growth driver for the company.
The service business expanded by 15% during the quarter with particularly strong growth in EMEA.
Turning to X-ray Products.
The timing of order placements resulted in a first quarter gross orders decline of 19% to $108 million.
Shortly after the close of the quarter we booked over $20 million in orders for panels and tubes.
We saw a strong demand for our new mammography and wireless panels and continued interested in our bundled panel and workstation solutions.
Separately we are announcing the execution of an expanded 3-year agreement to supply an estimated $550 million of imaging components to Toshiba.
Orders will be booked over the period of the agreement.
As was announced earlier we are adding 120 000 square feet to our production facility for manufacturing imaging components in Salt Lake City.
Before leaving X-ray Products I want to take a moment to recognize the contribution of Bob Kluge who is retiring in February from his role as Head of Varian X-ray Products and Security and Inspection Products businesses.
Bob built X-ray Products revenues from $95 million in 1993 to $546 million at the end of 2013.
We are indebted to Bob for his strategic vision intelligent management and consistent execution that have propelled Varian to a leadership position in the global imaging industry.
He set the stage for continued success and growth in our components businesses.
At the same time I'd like to take this opportunity to welcome Sunny Sanyal to Varian.
Sunny who's a former President of McKesson Provider Technologies will replace Bob effective February 3.
I'm sure Sunny will successfully build on the solid foundations laid by Bob.
The company's other category which is comprised of the Security and Inspection Products business the Varian Particle Therapy business and the Ginzton Technology Center recorded gross orders of $14 million in the first quarter.
Varian Particle Therapy reached a major milestone after the quarter ended when our ProBeam proton therapy system received 510(k) clearance.
This sets the stage for commencement of patient treatments when systems are fully commissioned.
With this clearance we believe Varian has the most advanced proton system on the market.
With our unique scanning beam technology ProBeam has the capability to deliver intensity-modulated proton therapy or IMPT with the precision needed to capitalize on the power of protons.
It also integrates some of Varian's most advanced technologies including exciting elements of our TrueBeam user interface as well as our image guidance and motion management tools.
As it stands we now have contracts to install our ProBeam system at several centers around the world including 4 in the United States 1 in Saudi Arabia and 1 in Russia.
Now I'll turn it over to Elisha.
Thanks Dow and hello everyone.
While Dow has already covered gross orders I want to briefly talk about the constant currency growth rates for the quarter.
Overall currency exchange rates had virtually no effect on the company's total order growth in the quarter.
However exchange rates had a significant impact within some of our regions.
For example the yen weakened significantly from the year-ago quarter which resulted in oncology growth orders in Asia being down 7% in dollars and even with the year-ago quarter in constant currency.
By contrast currencies strengthened in Europe.
Oncology's gross orders in EMEA increased 2% in dollars and fell 1% in constant currency.
Oncology orders in our Rest of World region declined by 5% in dollars and by 1% in constant currency.
The company ended the quarter with a $2.8 billion backlog down 1% from the year ago quarter including a roughly $50 million decline in proton therapy backlog.
As a reminder both gross and net orders are shown in the consolidated statement of earnings attached to our earnings release.
First quarter revenue for the total company increased 5% in dollars and 6% in constant currency.
Oncology posted a 3% gain in revenues during the quarter with a significant increase in revenues outside of North America.
Service revenues grew by 11% over the year-ago period and represented a record 40% of oncology revenues in the quarter.
X-ray Products posted first quarter revenue growth of 9% with both tubes and panels contributing about equally.
Revenues from businesses in the other category increased by $4 million due to continued progress on our Scripps Saudi and Russia proton therapy projects.
Total company gross margin for the quarter was 43.5% up 60 basis points from the year-ago quarter with favorable product mix and lower quality cost in both of our major businesses.
Oncology Systems gross margin improved by 1 point to 44.9% helped by the continued growth in our service business as well as improved quality cost.
While we are pleased with the margin performance in the quarter we continue to believe that oncology can sustain long-term gross margins in the 43% to 44% range.
X-ray Products gross margin for the quarter was up more than 0.5 point to 42.2% due to improved quality cost in both tubes and panels.
We continue to believe that this business can sustain long-term gross margin in the low 40% level.
First quarter SG&amp;A expenses were $110 million or 15% of revenues a slight improvement as a percentage of revenues from the year-ago quarter when we incurred a $4 million restructuring charge related to an enhanced retirement program.
First quarter R&amp;D expenses were $58 million or 8% of revenues up more than 1 point as a percentage of revenue as we continued to invest in our global strategies and execute on our product roadmap.
Moving down the income statement first quarter operating earnings totaled $142 million up 3% from the year-ago quarter in dollars and almost even with the year-ago quarter at 20% of revenues.
Depreciation and amortization totaled $16 million for the quarter.
The effective tax rate was up slightly from the year-ago period to 31.2%.
Fully diluted shares outstanding decreased from the year-ago quarter to $107.4 million due to our ongoing share repurchase program.
Diluted EPS was $0.91 for the quarter.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $971 million debt of $481 million and stockholders' equity of $1.7 billion.
DSO at 94 was up 7 days from the year ago quarter with an approximate 10-day impact from the proton therapy business where extended payments are not yet due but revenue has been recognized under the "percentage of completion method." First quarter cash flow from operations was $43 million lower than net income primarily due to working capital increases and accounts receivable and inventory versus the year-ago quarter.
Primary uses of cash were approximately $155 million toward the repurchase of 2 million shares of stock.
At the end of the quarter we had 6 million shares remaining under the existing repurchase authorization that extends through calendar year 2014.
Now I'll turn it back to Dow for the outlook.
Thanks Elisha.
The company is executing its marketing and operational strategies effectively and we believe we are on-track for hitting our fiscal year 2014 growth targets.
For the fiscal year we continue to believe that total company revenues could increase by about 6% to 8% over the prior fiscal year.
Net earnings per diluted share for the fiscal year could be in the range of $4.22 to $4.34.
We expect total company revenues for the second quarter of the fiscal year 2014 to be about equal to the year-ago quarter when proton revenues were high.
Net earnings per diluted share for the second quarter could be in the range of $1 to $1.04.
We're now ready for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jeff Johnson from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Dow I was wondering if I could start with you 2 quick questions and then a follow-up for Elisha.
For you Dow I guess any update on the short cycle business.
Obviously that was a shortfall last quarter just maybe how that bounced back if it did at all in the quarter.
And also an update maybe on tone that you're hearing from the hospitals.
The obvious -- obviously the North American order number looked better this quarter.
But do you think that's been driven by reimbursement? Just what are your conversations in the field telling you the follow-through has been since the better reimbursement rates were finalized? I'll answer the North America question first.
North American business was obviously very good.
We're very pleased with that.
13% orders growth in North America that's the strongest quarter we've had in over 2 years.
So we like that a lot.
As I mentioned in the script we did see a couple of large deals in the quarter and we think that that is -- that we'll continue to see -- as the market consolidates we'll continue to see some large orders.
I'd say the short-cycle business is about the same.
I wouldn't say that that's ticked up.
We did see some nice EDGE and RapidPlan activity.
So that's good news.
The new products are taking.
We did add -- we did see some strong competitive takeouts.
I think it's too early to tell whether this is -- I frankly don't think it's reimbursement-driven.
I think maybe there was a little bit of a pent-up demand as people watched the -- watched Washington make some decisions.
But I think it's still a little early to tell what the long-term impact is going to be.
I guess our gut now it's is still kind of in the mid-single-digit growth kind of scenario which is better than we've done in the last year or 2 so we like that.
The good news is we still have a lot of product in the installed base that's aging.
We've got 1 100 Linac installed base in the U.S.
that's over 10 years old so we can go after that.
And then the other thing that we're curious to see how it impacts the market it'll be positive in the long term certainly is this new lung screening mandate that's come down.
And clearly the earlier we can identify a lung lesion the more appropriate it is for radiation.
And that will also have a positive impact on the configuration that we sell because folks are going to want SBRT-capable motion-managed-capable machines.
So that's kind of the tour of North America.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
And when you say mid-single digit do you still see it that way as -- from a growth perspective Dow? You mean worldwide or are you saying that for U.S.
sorry? Right now for both.
Research Division</strong> For both.
Okay.
And Elisha just a follow-up for you where is it? On the gross to net adjustment in oncology I think last quarter you talked about that typically being a 3% to 5% adjustment.
This quarter it was above that a little north of $40 million bigger than we were thinking.
So are we still seeing you take more out of the backlog on the oncology side more cancellations things like that than normal or how do you explain that I guess? No Jeff.
This was very normal for a quarter.
We had about $40 million of dormancies in cancellation the lion's share of that being within the Oncology Systems about a $5 million FX adjustment.
That 3% to 5% is a backlog that we typically would deliver on about 95% of backlog.
If you do the math it's about I think 1.3% 1.4% of backlog right now.
So we're in that range.
And really I think proton impacted at our backlog and proton was down $50 million.
If that had been flat year-over-year we'd be well within say the 1% of backlog range that is very typical.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Would you give a net order for oncology a net constant currency growth rate for the quarter? Just like in the tables.
We only get a reported I believe.
It's -- the constant currency is the same.
So we -- the yen and the euro were almost an exact offset in the gross and net.
Our next question comes from Steven Beuchaw from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> One housekeeping question sorry if I missed it.
But could you give us the North American and international net order figures for oncology? We have -- no.
What we gave was the geographic breakdown on gross orders.
The lion's share of any impact of net is -- impacts North America.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the lion's share the 40 -- I'm sorry $43 million maybe 80% 90% of that was on North America? Correct.
Research Division</strong> So we can get to the number that way.
Got it.
I wonder Elisha -- sorry 2 questions for you and one on gross margins.
As you look at the quarter clearly above what you've called out for the year.
Does it imply that there's maybe some upside to the view that the right number for the full year is $42 million for the total company and clearly there's an embedded question there which is could you speak to the impact of what proton means for gross margins and operating margins over the balance of the year? Yes.
So Steve I mean clearly we were very pleased with the margin performance in both of our core businesses this quarter.
That said it's early in the fiscal year.
We still have currencies moving around.
What really helped both businesses this quarter was strong service in oncology.
And we had lower quality cost in both our tubes panels and Oncology business.
We had a much higher percentage of revenue outside of North America.
But that said the revenues in our BRIC countries were down.
So when I look at all of that together I mean obviously we're pleased the product cost reductions are coming through as we anticipated.
But I -- the geographic mix for the balance of the year could impact that.
So at this early stage I'm holding to that 43% 44% for total oncology.
Our next question comes from Amit Hazan from SunTrust bank.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So maybe the first question on the service business given it was a bigger-percentage quarter and continues to grow nicely.
I'm just wondering if you can lay out for us again as we kind of start out this new calendar year how much visibility you have that service business can continue to grow double digit.
If you can walk through some of the underlying factors you're seeing now having grown double-digits for quite some time.
And then also if you can just kind of walk through what that means for service gross margin dynamic if 50% plus gross margin is sustainable for service if you can improve further.
Yes I think the margin rate one is an easy one.
We do believe that that will continue.
There's no reason to see that decrease at all.
I mean the #1 analytic that we look at inside is installed base out of warranty and our installed base out of warranty and service continues to grow.
I think as we said on the call somewhere -- middle of last year we basically have a TrueBeam coming out of warranty.
One per order day this year and that's driving our growth.
We do have -- we are seeing more TrueBeams come out of warranty in particular outside of the U.S.
So a lot of that early TrueBeam volume went into the U.S.
and now we're kind of moving into the bubble outside of the U.S.
from an installed base out of warranty perspective.
We're also seeing a richer contract mix that comes with that.
The TrueBeam pricing is better.
And we also -- the service team I think has done a very good job of going after software service agreements as well as a driving capture rates contract capture rates in the business.
So we see this kind of double-digit scenario in the service business continuing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And the second question for me is on China.
The tone has changed a lot since just last quarter and it's within the same calendar year really.
So I just wonder if you can give us a little bit more color on what you think is going on in that country and now in terms of orders.
We saw GE come through with some weak numbers as well.
And so are you seeing something changing there in terms of how they're looking at purchase of capital equipment and why you think it's now towards the back half back end of the year or what else...
Well we have seen a slowing of purchasing activity in China.
We think it's temporary.
Our share was up in the quarter as I mentioned and we're pleased to see that.
Our funnel is very strong in China so we think it's just a timing issue.
Our next question comes from Jeremy Feffer from Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to first just -- I want to double check that the $19 million of U.S.
orders to a couple of hospitals were those new customers for you or were those replacements of existing systems? Let's see.
I think it's a little bit of both.
Both of these are consolidated customers and -- so there has been some acquisitions.
I know the parent organizations were both Varian customers.
But in their consolidation there's some competitive equipment that they had consolidated and that we will be replacing.
And that's the $19 million is the amount that we actually booked in the quarter.
The deals were -- together they were $50 million.
And as we get a little more visibility on the sites and the dates we'll be looking the other $31 million of those orders.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I wanted to come back to Japan.
You mentioned that you're seeing -- I mean beyond the obvious currency issues you've been -- you mentioned some -- a bit of a tougher competitive landscape.
Can you provide a little more color there and how you see that market developing over time? I think it's -- the way we kind of view it here is we had a tough comp.
We got a lot of accelerated purchases in the Q1 of last year with a little budget acceleration that they were doing in Japan.
We also had some yen impact year-over-year and so the market is soft.
We still think the long-term growth in the market remains very very good.
Less than 30% of patients in Japan get radiation as part of their cancer therapy that in Western Europe in the U.S that number is over 50% 50% to 60%.
So we think that Japan remains a good long-term growth market.
We do have a lot of opportunities in the MELCO installed base which is gradually replacing.
For those who don't know the history there we bought that installed base a dozen of years ago or so and those products are kind of coming to the end of their life and we're seeing a nice replacement opportunity there.
Over the last year our share has been stable in Japan.
We have very high share there and we think that that will continue in the long term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one quickly.
Any updates on proton reimbursement now that you have ProBeam approval? Any -- are you getting any thawing in the reimbursement -- on the reimbursement side? The hospital reimbursement rate went up.
As part of the reimbursement package that was approved in December hospital proton reimbursement went up.
Freestanding reimbursement in protons is negotiated with each carrier.
They typically kind of follow the federal hospital guideline in protons.
So we think this is encouraging news but it's not.
It still has to be negotiated center by center -- carrier by carrier.
Our next question comes from Jason Wittes from Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones here.
One the U.S.
order rate.
It sounds based from what you said that hospitals' purchasing dynamics haven't really changed for the last few quarters but the real driver this quarter was a big lump order? Is that the right way to think about it? And...
Well in fact no.
I mean it was only $19 million of a huge number.
So yes we got a nice $50 million order but we only actually booked $19 million of it.
So we did see broad-based strength in the U.S.
market.
There might have been a little bit of timing because people were waiting for some certainty with the reimbursement decision.
Did we have a little bit of pent-up demand? You heard me say our kind of forecast on the year is that this market is going to be a mid-single-digit market.
That would be great news for us.
That has not been a mid-single-market for a while.
So we'd love to see that stability and we're thrilled with the start that we have in Q1 and our funnel looks pretty good.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on China just to clarify on that as well.
It sounds like you're optimistic that you got a recovery but it does sound that'll be later in the year.
So if I think about the growth rate that you guys are thinking about for orders roughly I think you're still saying it's going to be mid-single digit which again is an improvement.
It sounds like that'll be more U.S.-centric than I would have expected this year though.
If I think about the moving pieces meaning the U.S.
looks a little stronger than it was in China looks like it's going to be back-end loaded is that a fair way to look at it? Kind of stepping back at the highest level I think the Oncology business is in the mid-single digit range.
The imaging components business is in the double-digit range proton's kind of the wild card.
We got a pretty good proton funnel.
But our long-term growth in kind of the mid- to high-single digits is a pretty good forecast for what our markets are doing.
Our next question comes from Amit Bhalla from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Dow I'm just trying to foot the 2Q guidance with what you're saying about what's taking place in the regions.
I guess what's clear is that underlying your full year guidance is China being back-end loaded but your second quarter guidance can you walk through some of the moving parts? Clearly it's coming in a little bit lighter than -- we're expecting both on top line and earnings.
Sure.
So on it for Q2 sales up 1% to 2%.
And that's primarily driven by the proton therapy business will be down significantly versus the year ago quarter where we started recognizing revenue under both the Saudi and the Russia projects as well as a significant Scripps revenue.
In the second quarter Oncology we're expecting again to be up in the low-single digits X-ray up in the high-single digits with half -- the second half's going to really be driven above that level by the proton business where we're continuing to make progress but it's just not done at this point.
On financing it's going well from what we hear but we won't be able to book revenue until that is completed on the Maryland project.
Research Division</strong> And question -- I guess question for you Elisha on the quality -- the product quality costs that are coming in better you mentioned it both in the Oncology business you mentioned it in the X-ray business.
Can you put some quantification around that? And what exactly have you improved and why can't that just continue straight on out? Well we just get variations in any given quarter.
It relates to scrap and warranty and rework and of course retrofit cost.
And it was just kind of a perfect storm if you will on the positive side this quarter.
We're hoping that holds but again it's just too early in the year to say that it's going to be that good for the remainder of the year.
We always get quarterly fluctuations but again very pleased with the performance in the quarter.
It is a focus for us.
Some of them come in lumps which gives us some of the issues with the predictability issue.
But as far as yield and scrap goes on the overall quality it's a major initiative for us across the entire business.
Our next question comes from Anthony Petrone from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> A couple for you Dow on Oncology one on X-ray and just a numbers question for Elisha.
You mentioned the E orders were pushed out in fiscal 1Q to 2Q.
I'm just wondering if maybe you can quantify that for one.
And then on the Toshiba contract how does that stack up versus prior contracts? Is it a bigger contract? Is pricing favorable on that and how additive is that to the X-ray outlook? First of all coming to Europe we did see strength in Southern Europe which kind of surprised us that was not something we were expecting.
So France Spain and Italy were strong.
We were expecting weakness in Northern Europe.
We had a very large order last year in the U.K.
which I think we'll be explaining a little bit of that all year in Northern Europe.
Central Europe was relatively flat.
We had good performance in India and our Service business performed very well in Europe.
So kind of -- Northern Europe and Central Europe was where we were down and India and Southern Europe was where we were up.
The Toshiba contract and the X-ray business we're thrilled.
Obviously it's been a terrific partner and really driven the growth in our X-ray components business for the last several years.
The contract value the agreement value is about $515 million which is up about 10% from the last time.
So it's part of what gives us this confidence in calling a double-digit scenario in our components business.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then quickly for Elisha you mentioned also in your prepared comments of $50 million decrease in proton therapy backlog so maybe just a clarification on where that was which order.
And then on the $51 million emerging market deal that Dow referenced in his comments is that sort of similar pricing and margins relative to Brazil? Is that the way we should be thinking about that revenues? Yes on the proton therapy backlog really it's just -- it's a cumulative number right over the last 12-month period but I'm looking at quarter-over-quarter.
And it's just simply because we are getting very close on some proton orders but we have not yet booked those orders because it hasn't met all of our order booking guidelines.
And so we've been recording significant revenue over the last 12 months particularly as Scripps has progressed and we have not booked an order over that period.
So once an order is booked that backlog should come back nicely for our proton therapy business.
With respect to the Algeria deal that we mentioned it is at a significantly higher margins and it is at significantly higher featured equipment with the TrueBeam STx and a lot more software content so much higher than the Brazil margin.
Our next question comes from Tycho Peterson from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Elisha just -- can you comment on the reclassification on products and services revenues at the bottom of the release? I'm just not entirely clear what drove that.
Sure.
So we average -- if you look at any given quarter we average about $25 million in parts sales.
Historically we had put that into our product category and not talked about it as part of our service business.
We just simply did a reclass because it's more consistent with how we talk about our service business to The Street.
Also how we monitor and look at performance in our product lines and businesses internally and frankly how incentive plans are structured.
I just wanted to make sure that we had all of that perfectly aligned.
So simply a reclass of that $25 million a quarter roughly of the parts businesses which represents less than 10% of our total service business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the margins.
I mean if we look -- this quarter 6% earnings growth off a 5% top line.
I know you talked at the Analyst Day in December about 25 to 50 basis points of leverage per year.
Why couldn't that be more? I mean I understand supply chain is part of it.
But there has to be other parts of the balance sheet where you can drive additional leverage.
Can you maybe just talk to your level of commitment to driving leverage in the model? Absolutely.
For this fiscal year and really what's driving and we're going to be down call it maybe 0.5 point roughly on operating margin and that's driven by really the proton therapy business.
We are expecting significant revenue out of protons this year.
If you don't mind I failed to answer Steve's second question which was the margin on protons.
If you take the total revenue for the year it'll be at roughly a 15% margin.
As we mentioned it will be somewhere between $100 million and $150 million of proton revenue depending on the timing of projects I've just picked the midpoint at $125 million.
So we do have between that 6% and 8% some significant variability if you will around the proton business.
And then secondly on leverage we made a conscious decision to take the R&amp;D up this year.
It will go up about 1 full percentage point and that's just so that we can continue to execute on a very robust product pipeline.
So those 2 factors are what's driving it.
If it weren't for the proton's significant increase in sales I believe we wouldn't be getting leverage in the P&amp;L.
Research Division</strong> And then last one.
Dow you called out software.
Can you maybe just give us a sense as to how much share you think you've pulled on on that side of the market? And are you lacking in hardware sales at this point with RapidPlan? As I mentioned on the call we did see a conversion of the hardware socket with RapidPlan so we were glad to see that.
We think that there will be more of that.
We did see a lot of purer software conversions of people converting either treatment planning or oncology information system installed base to either ARIA or Eclipse.
And that's been a multi-year trend.
We think we've been winning it more there than we've been losing.
And I'd say that especially with the strength of RapidPlan coming out of ASTRO we've got a nice lead in treatment planning and -- with RapidPlan I think it's really hitting a chord with people whether you're the best at treatment planning or new in the business RapidPlan is going to help you.
And I think customers are seeing that and it's really driving the conversation for both software and hardware.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last quick one if I can.
On the commentary on China before as we think about the back half of this calendar year.
Are these going to be larger tenders or is it a lot of singles and doubles? I'm just trying to gauge the lumpiness of...
There's always going to be the PLA tender but otherwise I don't think the structure of the -- I mean it might be consolidating a little bit but I don't think at least at this point anything -- I don't see any material change in kind of the structure of the China market.
It happens kind of a customer at a time and province at a time.
Our next question comes from David Roman from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Aimie in for David Roman.
I was just wondering looking at your guidance for 2Q and kind of going through the numbers that's getting me to an average growth rate in the back half of about 9.5% to 13.5% for both revenue and earnings.
So could you just walk me through what you're seeing that that gets you there that makes you confident that you can deliver that in the back half? Yes and again this is -- it's going to be largely dependent on the timing of our proton therapy revenue where we're going to see a huge increase in proton revenue once we get these -- once our customers gets the financing completed on the Maryland project.
We're coming to the end on Scripps in terms of revenue recognition but Russia Saudi and Maryland are all in the queue for the second half of this year to have significant revenues with them.
So again that's really what's driving the top line growth above that midpoint that Dow talked about.
If I just took our core businesses again Oncology is going to grow in the low single-digit range call it the 3% to 4% range.
Our X-ray Products top line should grow near the low-double-digit range with the balance coming from huge increases in protons.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then maybe just as a follow-up.
With so much of the revenue coming from proton in the back half how are you thinking about gross margins especially you were saying that you expect them to still kind of reach that 42% number.
So what are you seeing in the back half that gets you there on margins? Yes.
So again we're seeing that the Oncology and X-ray margins are going to hold well within the ranges that we've talked about.
The proton gross margin is coming up from prior years.
For the total proton business this year we think we'll average around 15%.
And what that equates to is in the FY '13 total company gross margin was 42.5%.
And again should be just down slightly for the total business for this fiscal year.
We have one more quarter of excise tax in Oncology and then the proton revenue at a much lower margin driving that slight decline.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And if I could just squeeze in one more quick one.
I was wondering if you have any guidance around the share count for the full year for '14.
No.
Other than -- if you look historically we bought between 1 million and 2 million shares per quarter.
We do have an existing authorization in place for calendar year '14 for 6 million shares.
So we look at this opportunistically based on U.S.
cash interest rates share price all of those things but you should assume that we will continue to purchase through the balance of the year.
Our next question comes from Toby Wann from Obsidian Research Group.
LLC</strong> Elisha quick question on the R&amp;D the percent of revenue.
I mean is it fair to assume that it's going to be above 8% kind in that 8% range on a go-forward basis given the product pipeline that's coming up? Well again we're seeing significant increases in the oncology R&amp;D but because of that proton revenue increase that I've been talking about it should be about 7% of revenues both this year and last year.
If you were to strip out the increase in proton revenue yes it would go up by about a point.
LLC</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then cash balance in the U.S.
was -- of the $971 million about how much of that is outside the U.S.? Most of it.
Our next question comes from Charley Jones from Barrington.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I just want to start I guess with market growth.
I was wondering if our growth -- I see your U.S.
growth is driven more by the market improving or are you making some competitive inroads? I think our share is stable to up a hair.
It's not up dramatically by any stretch but our share has been at least what it's been historically.
So I think most of this is at least that we saw in Q1 is a pretty good market.
We haven't seen Elekta's results yet and won't see them for another month or so but that's kind our gut.
When you look at the last rolling 12 months which is probably a better way to look at it our share is stable to a hair up.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess the reason for the question is I'm thinking after the loss of Brazil the change in reimbursement maybe they'd get kind of aggressive.
And so I'm just wondering if they've changed their behavior a little bit.
I guess as a follow-up to that are you seeing TomoTherapy at all anymore? And can you comment on...
As I said we did have some takeouts of TomoTherapy units in the quarter they're still out there and they win a few.
But I think RapidArc and biometric arc therapy from Elekta have also made it very tough for the competitive differentiation of TomoTherapy.
There was another piece to your question...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess there's more on Elekta right after the year...
Yes.
I was just going to say on the overall pricing environment is good.
We have -- we've seen stability in pricing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just squeeze one more in.
I guess in general would you say U.S.
health care reform is kind of a non-issue as far as uncertainty within the purchasers? And you've got better reimbursement for radiosurgery to boot so...
I think the good news is the short-term environment doesn't look too bad.
And the reimbursement news at least stabilized.
The investment environment for people over the next year I think there's some question about where it ends up in the 2016 2017 time period as legislation drives to more accountable care organizations and things like that.
And I think there's -- I think our customers still have some uncertainty about that.
I think what we are seeing is a reinforcement of what our customers are looking for they're looking for real clinical value.
If you've got product that has a demonstrated clinical value and can help drive efficiency you win.
So I think both radiation and Varian have a very good story in the value that we drive in healing patients.
Thank you.
I'll now turn the call back over to our speakers for closing comments.
Thank you for participating.
A replay of this call can be heard on the Varian investor website at www.varian.com/investor where it will be archived for a year.
To hear a telephone replay please dial 1 (877) 660-6853 from inside the U.S.
or 1 (201) 612-7415 from outside the U.S.
and enter confirmation code 424753.
The telephone replay will be available through 5:00 p.m.
Friday January 24.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings.
And welcome to the Varian Medical Systems Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Spencer Sias Vice President Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
Thank you Mr.
Sias.
You may now begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
And welcome to Varian Medical Systems conference call for the second quarter of fiscal year 2014.
With me are Dow Wilson President and CEO; Elisha Finney CFO; and Clarence Verhoef our Corporate Controller.
Dow and Elisha will summarize our results and we'll take your questions following the presentation.
To simplify our discussion unless otherwise stated all references to the quarter or year are fiscal quarters and fiscal years.
Quarterly comparisons are for the second quarter of fiscal 2014 versus the second quarter of fiscal 2013.
Please be advised that this presentation and discussion contains forward-looking statements.
Our use of words and phrases such as outlook could believe can expect will hope target likely and similar expressions are intended to identify those statements which represents our current judgment on future performance or other future matters.
While we believe them to be reasonable based on information currently available to us these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of the important risks relating to our business are described in our second quarter earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements in this presentation and discussion because of new information future events or otherwise.
Before turning it over to Dow let me remind you that we are holding a Media Review and Webcast for investors in New York on Tuesday May 6th details are available on our IR site.
And now here is Dow.
Good afternoon and welcome.
For the second quarter of 2014 we generated good order growth.
Revenues that came in slightly ahead of expectations and solid margins before accounting for the settlement of patent litigation.
Quickly summarize our financial results for the second quarter versus the year ago periods.
Revenues rose 1% to $779 million our gross margin grew nearly 60 basis points to 42.2% and earnings came in at $0.88 per diluted share including a $0.16 per share charge related to the settlement of the seven-year patent dispute with the University of Pittsburgh regarding our respiratory gating technology and our quarter ending backlog rose to $2.8 billion with the help of about $60 million in proton orders.
Turning to operational highlights Oncology Systems grew gross orders by 6% to $613 million with strong gains in Latin America and Australia 3% increases in both North America and EMEA and a 3% decline in Asia where the weaken offset constant currency growth of 3%.
In North America we see hospitals continuing to consolidate and hospital administrators focusing increasingly on system purchases that enabled cost efficient quality care with the best clinical practices.
This is our strong suit.
As an example we entered into two new multiyear agreements with large hospital systems to supply them with packages of accelerators accessories software and services portions of these agreements were booked in the second quarter and the reminder will be booked over the five to seven-year terms of these agreements.
We have more of these type deals in the sales funnel.
In EMEA we booked roughly half of the $51 million multi-machine Algerian order that we announced early in the second quarter.
We also booked sizable orders in Italy Spain and Switzerland.
Subsequent to the close of the quarter we exhibited at the ASTRO meeting Indiana where attendance was up and where we saw heavy booth traffic with a lot of interest in our RapidPlan software and in radiosurgery solution.
In Asia Japan had double-digit order growth with the key win in Hiroshima and good replacement business from conversations of aging Siemens and Mitsubishi unit.
We grew gross orders slightly in China.
In the meantime interest in radiotherapy is rising in other Asian markets including Vietnam the Philippine and Myanmar.
Growth in rest of world including Latin and Australia was particularly strong during the quarter.
In Brazil we received orders for several treating unit as well as the software systems which were outside of the 80 machine tender that we won earlier this year.
We have not yet booked orders relating to this tender.
Columbia Bolivia Peru and Ecuador were also active during the quarter.
We received numerous orders in this region for our cost efficient low energy unique accelerator with RapidArc capability.
In Australian we received a sizeable order from Genesis care network that included 10 TrueBeams that will be delivered over the next three years.
In total TrueBeam comprised more than 60% of our high energy accelerator orders during the quarter.
This product has generated more than $2.5 billion in gross orders since its introduction just four years ago.
Siemen's replacement business contributed to our Oncology order growth in North America EMEA and Asia the strategic partnership has gained momentum and is working well for our business.
Siemen conversations have accounting for more than $80 million in gross orders this year.
We also landed new business in the Philippines working with Siemens.
Thanks to their help Varian will supply accelerators to the first three of eight planned radiotherapy centers at some of the country’s leading hospital.
We also made good progress during the quarter with our Edge radiosurgery offerings.
We have booked nearly 100 orders for Edge upgrades and systems.
We reached an important radiosurgery milestone during the quarter when Champalimaud in Portugal commenced the world first treatment with our Edge platform.
Champalimaud’s first Edge radiosurgery patient was a 53-year woman with operable stage one non-small cell lung cancer.
Physicians there also treated the 67-year-old man with two metastatic brain tumors.
He received radiosurgery for both tumors in a single session that took less than 10 minutes.
To my knowledge there is another system that matches the combined precision and treatment time of our Edge radiosurgery platform.
Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit recently became the first center in the United States to commence treating patients with Edge radiosurgery.
Turning to Oncology services we expanded gross orders in this part of the business by 11% during the quarter.
Year-to-date service orders represented almost 40% of the total oncology gross orders.
As was recorded earlier we completed our acquisition of Velocity asset including software design to help clinicians make more informed treatment decisions by organizing patient data and making it available in one place.
This acquisition supports our commitment providing clinicians with tools for data-driven clinical decision making.
The Velocity software enabled healthcare professionals to use oncology patient images and data to plan and assess treatments collaborate with colleagues and share clinical knowledge.
We expect this to play an important part in the movement towards evidence based medicine.
I’m pleased to say that the skilled clinicians who developed this software are joining Varian to help develop and commercialize this product on a broader scale.
This software is already in use at over 200 centers around the world.
And we believe we can achieve faster and deeper market penetration for this product to our global sales marketing and service network.
Let me turn to our new imaging component segment which is comprised of our X-ray flat panel detectors to and security products.
We consolidated these product lines into a single segment as a result of an organizational change that puts them under the management of Sunny Sanyal our new Imaging Components President.
Growth orders for this segment increased 14% to $205 million driven exclusively by very strong demand for our panel.
As we mentioned on the last call this business benefited to some extent some catch-up orders that flipped from the first to second quarter of this fiscal year.
X-ray equipment manufactures have designed our panel into a new C-arm surgical imaging system and new digital mammography system and into a digital radiography system that was the winner of sizable public tender in India.
As sales of these systems ramp up it should contribute to the continued growth of our panel business.
Gross orders for X-ray tubes and security products were soft compared to the year-ago quarter.
Two purchases were slowed in part due to improved quality and lifecycle.
Demand for security products remains healthy but competition and pricing pressure impacted security business during the quarter.
The company’s other category which is comprised of the Varian Particle Therapy business and Ginzton Technology Center recorded growth orders of $60 million in the second quarter.
The Varian Particle Therapy business booked two orders during the quarter and approximately $50 million order for a new proton installation at at the Cincinnati Children's Hospital and approximately $10 million order from the Paul Scherrer in Switzerland for technology and equipment.
We look forward to additional clinical research.
Before closing on protons I’m pleased to report that treatments are progressing at Scripps where they have permission two rooms and are treating as many as 36 patients a day for range of disease including prostate; lung; head and neck; and breast cancer.
Average treatment time is 26 minutes with the faster treatment session completed in just 10 minutes.
Now I’ll turn it over to Elisha.
Thanks Dow and hello everyone.
While Dow has already covered growth orders I want to briefly talk about the constant currency growth rates for the quarter.
In comparing quarter-over-quarter exchange rates the weakening of the Yen and the Aussie dollar was mostly offset by the strengthening of the Euro and other currencies.
Oncology growth orders increased 6% in dollars and 7% in constant currency.
Oncology’s North American growth order was up 3% in both dollars and constant currency.
EMEA growth orders increased 3% in dollars and 1% in constant currency.
And in Asia where the Yen weakened by roughly 15% quarter-over-quarter that region was down 3% in dollars but up 3% in constant currency.
Oncology growth orders in rest of world region including Latin America and Australia rose by 71% in dollars and 82% in constant currency.
The company ended the quarter with a $2.8 billion backlog up 2% from the year-ago quarter.
As a reminder both growth and net orders were shown in the consolidated segment of earnings attached to our press release.
Second quarter revenues for the total company increased 1% in dollars and 3% in constant currency.
For the first half total company revenues were up 3% in dollars and 5% in constant currency.
Oncology systems posted a 4% gain and revenues during the quarter bringing the revenue growth for the first half to 3%.
Imaging components posted a second quarter revenue gain of 2% with double-digit growth in our flat panel products largely offset by declines in our security and inspection products.
For the first half imaging component revenues were up 4% from the year ago period with similar headwinds from the security and inspection business.
Revenues for the other categories fell significantly from the year ago quarter when we started to report revenue under percentage of completion method for both the Saudi and Russia for proton therapy project.
Total company growth margins for the quarter rose 57 basis points to 42.2% driven by a smaller percentage of lower margins proton revenue.
Oncology systems gross margin equaled the year ago quarter at 42.8%.
For the first half Oncology’s gross margin increased nearly half a point to 43.8%.
The imaging component gross margin for the quarter declined by 80 basis points to 41.5% due largely to pricing pressure in X-ray tubes and volume declines in our security and inspection products.
For the first half imaging component gross margin fell 20 basis points to 41.4%.
Second quarter SG&amp;A expenses were $140 million or 18% of revenues including a charge related to the $35 million Palo patent litigation settlement.
Let me take a moment to walk you through the accounting for this settlement.
The settlement expense includes $5 million that was reserved in a prior year and another $25 million or $0.16 per share expense that was booked to SG&amp;A in the second quarter.
An additional $5 million will be booked in our current third quarter on the balance sheet as a prepaid royalty that will be amortized over the next two and a half years.
The patent settlement added approximately 3 points to SG&amp;A as a percent of revenues in the second quarter.
SG&amp;A was further impacted by about a $5 million increase in our bad debt reserve in the quarter to reflect uncertainty in our ability to exchange our Venezuelan Bolivars that we have collected into dollars.
Second quarter R&amp;D expenses were $61 million or 8% of revenues up 1 point as a percentage of revenue with the year ago quarter as we continue to invest in our global strategies and execute on our product roadmap.
For the first half R&amp;D expenses also rose 1 point as a percentage of revenues to 8%.
Moving down the income statement second quarter operating earnings totaled $128 million down 18% from the year ago quarter.
The patent litigation settlement reduced the operating margin by more than 3 points to 16.4% for the quarter.
Depreciation and amortization totaled $15 million for the quarter and $31 million for the first half.
The effective tax rate fell slightly from the year ago periods to 27.6% with about half a point of benefit related to the patent settlement.
Given the ongoing geographic mix shift of profits to outside North America we now believe the tax rate for the full fiscal year will be approximately 28%.
Fully diluted shares outstanding decreased from the year ago quarter to $105.4 million due largely to our ongoing share repurchase program.
Diluted EPS was $0.88 for the second quarter including the $0.16 per diluted share litigation settlement charge.
Turning to the balance sheet we ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $939 million debt of $469 million and stockholders’ equity of $1.7 billion.
DSOs day sales outstanding at 95 was up 8 days from the year ago quarter with an approximate 10-day impact from the proton therapy business where deferred payments terms are not yet due but revenue has been recognized under the percentage of completion method.
Second quarter cash flow from operations was $126 million significantly higher than net income primarily due to working capital increases and accrued expenses and customer deposits.
Primary uses of cash were $159 million toward the repurchase of 2 million shares of stock.
At the end of the quarter we had 4 million shares remaining under the existing repurchase authorization that extends through calendar year 2014.
Now back to Dow for the outlook.
Thank you Elisha.
The company is continuing to execute well and our businesses remain on track to reach our fiscal year 2014 growth targets.
For the fiscal year we continue to believe that total company revenues could increase by about 6% to 8% over the prior fiscal year.
We expect net earnings per diluted share for the fiscal year including the $0.16 effect of the patent litigation settlement to be in the range of $4.06 to $4.18.
We expect total company revenues for the third quarter of fiscal year 2014 to increase in the range of 5% to 6%.
We expect net earnings per diluted share for the third quarter to be in the range of $1.06 to $1.10.
We are now ready for your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Tycho Peterson of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Question on net orders you guys came up a little bit late versus the street [5.59% versus 5.83%] (ph) I think can you maybe just talk through some of the dynamics there and then Elisha you want to breakout net orders in oncology North America versus international? Yes.
So Tycho we had two what I would say rather unusual items in the second quarter.
First because of the situation that I mentioned in Venezuela we took roughly $5 million out of backlog relating to deals that we had previously booked there as well as we had kind of an unusual and what we believe to be one-time cancellation in flat panel of another about $5 million from both the Chinese and the Korean customer.
So if you -- that said for the first half typically if you look at it as a percentage of backlog it’s 3% to 5% in any given year.
And if I look at the first half we are about 4%.
So if we assume the backlog will continue to grow throughout the year I think for the full year we still have a shot at being at 3% to 5% for the year.
And then a color is the North American versus international split of oncology net orders? So net orders yes and I can mark you through this quickly I am just having to refer to my notes here.
So for oncology the geographic split was 39% in North America 61% in international versus growth that look 42.
That was net.
And then is the momentum picking up with Siemens though I mean you hadn’t commented on the conversions picking up and so is that driving most of the growth? I think we commented last quarter that we felt very good after last quarter and I would say that momentum is continuing and we are seeing good strength with Siemens globally.
Frankly we like what we see there.
Now some of that was at in the product ready and we’re trying to get connectivity with the product and that’s good.
And I think we are going doing a nice coming there so in their hardware but it’s really kind of the story of all the software coming together and completing that capability in our product lines next to their old install base and that’s all done now and we’ve got some site to take people improve statements and clinically and I think that momentum is turning now.
Okay.
And then last one given the guidance for next quarter year-over-year becomes little bit more back end loaded could you comment on some of gives and takes in the back half of the year.
I know you previously talked about hoping for recovery in China so what are your thoughts on that and maybe some other drivers for the back half of the recovery? Sure Tycho.
The biggest driver is as we have assumed that our Maryland proton we have been talking just at the beginning of the fiscal year.
It will be ready for equipment at the end of May which doesn’t give us a whole of leverage there leeway there for Q3.
So we moved that into assumptions as into Q4.
So that’s really what’s driving.
If you look through the settlement and my lawyer told let me do the math for you but if you do the math you will see that the guidance is essentially unchanged from the prior year.
We simply moved Maryland into Q4 but the full year remains where it was.
Okay.
And now you are still confident China getting better back half of the year?  No.
Our funnel remains very strong.
We were positive.
It wasn't as biggest as we hope this last quarter but it was still positive.
We do believe we're getting some share in China.
So that's good.
But we do see a pretty strong second half in China.
Okay.
Thanks.
I’ll hop off.
Thank you.
The next question is from David Roman of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good afternoon everyone.
I wanted to maybe start with something came up in your prepared remarks regarding Brazil I think I don’t know I can’t remember you gave exact number but you did talked about having some strong orders for proton now we are outside of the 80 unit tender you had won and that you haven’t booked any orders on the tender.
To what extent do you think that having the tender might be helping your access to some of the private market and your own ability to perform well in Brazil versus just general strength in the end market and the fact that you're kind of already the market leader?  Let me start by saying we had a very good position in Brazil before the tender win.
We are finally the market leader in that market.
So we always had a good position in Brazil.
Winning the tender has certainly helped us.
It has reinforced that leadership position.
So I think there has been maybe a little bit of a halo effect.
This is the private market.
I think our product is very well-positioned.
We've got a very good distribution for this team down in Brazil and we think we are very well-positioned for both the short-term and the long-term.
I guess maybe what especially given from investor point of view is the new tenders both government and non-government are not affected by the MOH Ministry of Health pricing.
So we're seeing good pricing on these other orders as well.
And then maybe just go to kind of a follow-up which is just on pricing in general.
Could you maybe give us some sense as to how pricing is trending globally? I mean if I look at the gross margin which was I think pretty flat it was just flat in the quarter that would suggest to me that pricing is also pretty stable given your shifting mix of business.
Maybe you just sort of help us understand pricing trends by regions specifically in Oncology?  On the quarter well on the half for that matter as well pricing has been stable.
So our pricing is definitely holding and we're please about that.
On the quarter we did have -- our unit volume was up and our mix was a little more of kind of international mix we had more unique and usual and we had a little bit more of kind of value segment mix for that.
But product-to-product with year-over-year quarter-over-quarter pricing is effecting very stable.
And maybe I just sneak one more in here just on the U.S.
Well I know this market is seen some variations past several quarters around uncertainty and reimbursement and look like things are kind of coming back last quarter and I know you briefly talk about some of the issues around consolidation the U.S.
where you thought that was a competitive advantage for Varian.
But maybe just kind update us on your latest thought regarding the U.S.
market and maybe sort of help us draw kind of the trend line to kind of transcend what's been some volatility over the past couple of quarters?  Sure.
The good news is that volatility has measured in the last two quarters sorry someone sneak here a little bit last -- measure in the last few quarters we've had good U.S.
market performance and that's for us have -- we had together it's been a tough market as you said David.
But our orders on the half or very good year-to-date gross orders were up 8% gross orders in the quarter were up 3% as we said.
Yes the market is consolidating and the free standing clinic market is pretty quite but we are seeing the hospital market to be pretty aggressive.
In terms of outlook the funnel looks good and I would say we're looking for kind of mid single-digit market growth out of U.S.
and frankly that's a part of positive outlook as we’ve had on that market in the long-term.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next question is from Amit Hazan of SunTrust Bank.
Pleased go ahead.
First I just want to go back to the difference between growth and net orders and in quality side.
I'm getting the number -- the printed number is about $54 million which is a actually a little bit bigger than normal.
I know Elisha you touched on it in the prior question but some of that what you touched on was not inside of oncology.
And in particular if I apply kind of majority of that to the net order for the North American line I get a pretty weak North American order number -- net order number despite a really weak comp? Yes.
I mean most of the cancellations and dormancies are in North America.
We did have some of the international market as I mentioned particularly in rest of world related to Venezuela this quarter.
But you’re going to get variability in any given quarter.
I just want to come back to in terms of history 3% to 5% of backlog is typically adjusted.
You just haven’t seen it really up until this point for this year but this is very typical to what we historically have seen.
Every single year it’s been 3% to 5%.
Can you confirm what was the change of growth rate for net orders in North America? It was down slightly mid-single digit.
Okay.
And it was up in international market.
And then you get a lot of variability within the international market.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
And just I want to ask a question about Edge and to one of your competitors.
Just kind of going -- thinking through SRS in particular but some of your Edge related comments in the past couple of quarters seeing one of your big competitors missed numbers due to GEMini weakness.
I’m just wondering if you guys can set a little bit of color on whether there is a direct link to the new imbursement changes there that happen at the end of last year to the extent what we’re seeing maybe a change in the marketplace where the traditional neurosurgeon call point for a GEMini type product is now being rolled into the oncology suite.
Is that helping you at all? Just any color on what’s happening on the SRS side where it kind of look from very short term numbers that you might be gaining some share? No I would say it’s a combination of factors.
You named the number of them but certainly the reimbursement was helpful to get those on the same footing now as the big deal if we were substantially lower than GEMini for reimbursement before for radio surgery and those are now reimbursed at same level.
So that’s one help.
Two is clearly on the environment that we’re in.
Administrators are particularly looking at making their purchases go farther and when you look at the number of patients and indications they can threat with Edge versus what they can threat with GEMini.
Testing with the single largest trend in radiation therapy being SDRT with lung liver and pancreas growing it’s having the flexibility and versatility of the Edge is a big deal.
And then last of all Edge as I said in my prepared remarks is the combination of the most precise and fastest delivering method to threat this indication.
And it has obviously a throughput impact but also has a patient impact.
Now these patients are sick and having to in some cases sit on a table half hour to an hour for complex treatments on Edge.
They can have that completed in 10 15 minutes and they’re set to go.
So I think it’s really kind of combination of all those factors and I do agree.
I think we are seeing some momentum there with that product from a relative little competition point of view.
Okay.
Thanks very much guys.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jason Wittes of Brean Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
Actually I wanted to ask about the gross margins and specifically Dow I know that when I spoke to you recently you discussed some investments being made in terms of your emerging market product offering and how that might translate into better gross margins in outer years.
Can you just talk about the spend you’re doing now and sort of how that might translate into the outer years margin improvement? Yes.
I think from an R&amp;D point of view we’re kind of three significant areas where we’re spending this increase in R&amp;D.
One is software.
We think there is a big opportunity where as a market leader in Eclipse we will continue to invest in algorithms in Eclipse and you’ve seen things like RapidPlan for us that will continue.
ARIA is a terrific product.
We’ve had to make investments this last year for the Siemens connectivity and things like that.
We continue to bring a lot of enhancements to that product and look forward really to evolving that product in the informatics space and in globalizing the product so that’s some of the investments there.
And then for the rest of the product line emerging markets are a big piece of our product line more and more and that's where we have a big chunk of our investment going that will yield products this year next year and beyond.
So we're investing aggressively in those areas.
As we already as we said on the call we're pretty comfortable with the margin rates on the quarter and pricing holding.
We continue to invest a fair amount as well in operational program to drive productivity across our business and have made pretty good progress on the variable costs of our TrueBeam platform as well as on our cost of quality and built our X-ray component business as well as Oncology.
Okay.
But I guess what I was trying to get at was I thought there was some effort to bridge the gap between emerging market and developed markets in terms of gross margins by product mix is that?  Absolutely.
I mean from a long-term point of view that's absolutely what we've got to do and that’s -- in terms of new product we want to deliver products that deliver what the customers want from a feature performance point of view and match our requirements our shareholder margin point of view and so we are -- so that is where our significant piece of our investment is going.
Okay.
If I could just do one follow-up in terms of the U.S.
market you had mentioned that there was some consolidation I think there was some other questions about it.
But you also mentioned that the funnel was strong does that imply partially seen your guidance as well that there is going to be some backend loadedness in terms of obviously a revenues or even order rates as well they were held back for some of the consolidation this quarter?  As you know we don't guide the orders and I will say that second half of last fiscal year we had a pretty good funnel and their results weren’t that great.
I see.
So I think part of what we're seeing is the yield on the funnel is good.
So we continue to see a very good funnel yield on the funnel recently has been good and I'll stick to the comment I made before and that is we are kind of seeing market outlook in the -- for long-term in the mid single-digit.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thank you management guys.
Thank you.
The next question is from Toby Wann of Obsidian Research Group.
Please go ahead.
Hey good afternoon everybody.
I just wanted to ask quickly kind of about rapid plan market adoption kind of how the pace of that how that’s been received both domestically and across the globe? There is a lot of enthusiasm and excitement for the product.
We showed it at ASTRO of course last year as you know.
It has European introduction at ASTRO very strong global interest.
We shift the first units to customer here in eight weeks or so and kind of official commercialization is this summer.
So we've got lots of customers lined up for us.
We think it's a game changer and it was a little color we will start with prostate model and then head and neck followed through shortly after that.
And then we’re onto breast cancer models and other cancers.
And with the enthusiasm that we're seeing from our customer based both luminary and committee and outside of the U.S.
we think this is -- this remains $700 million opportunity for us.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We have no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Sias for any closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
Thank you all for participating.
A replay of this call can be heard on the Varian investor website at www.varian.com/investor where it will be archived for a year.
To hear a telephone replay please dial 1-877-660-6853 from inside the U.S.
or 1-201-612-7415 from outside the U.S.
and enter confirmation code 13578961.
Telephone replay will be available through 5 p.m.
Friday April 25th.
Thank you again.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Varian Medical Systems Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Spencer Sias Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and welcome to Varian Medical Systems conference call for the third quarter of fiscal year 2014.
With me are Dow Wilson President and CEO; Elisha Finney CFO; and Clarence Verhoef our Corporate Controller.
Dow and Elisha will summarize our results and we'll take your questions following the presentation.
To simplify our discussion unless otherwise stated all references to the quarter or year are fiscal quarters and fiscal years quarterly comparisons are for the third quarter of fiscal 2014 versus the third quarter of fiscal 2013 references to the year-to-date or for the first three quarters of the fiscal year.
Please be advised that this presentation and discussion contains forward-looking statements.
Our use of words and phrases such as outlook believe can expect will hope and similar expressions are intended to identify those statements which represents our current judgments on future performance or other future matters.
While we believe them to be reasonable based on information currently available to us these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of the important risks relating to our business are described in our third quarter earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements in this presentation and discussion because of new information future events or otherwise.
Now here is Dow.
Good afternoon and welcome.
For the third quarter of 2014 we are reporting solid good order growth for our Imaging Components and proton businesses some big wins in emerging markets as well as weakness in Japan for our Oncology Systems business a 4% increase in our orders backlog revenue and gross margin gains in all of our business segments and earnings in line with our expectations before the impairment of a portion of our existing investment in Augmenix.
Compare to the year ago revenues for the company rose 3% to $748 million and net earnings were $1.02 per diluted share.
The impacts of the approximately $8 million Augmenix impairment was about $0.06 per share.
Oncology Systems' gross order came in at $620 million down by 1% despite strong wins in key emerging markets including China Latin America and in parts of Eastern Europe.
Orders for Oncology were up by 2% in EMEA and about even in North America and down by 6% in Asia with a sharp decline in Japan where we faced tough year ago comparisons.
Orders rose by 20% in China where we believe we are gaining market share.
For the BRIC countries in total orders grew by more than 50% during the quarter.
Our business in Latin America grew by more than 30% in the quarter.
We continue to generate new orders in Brazil but have not yet booked any from the 80 machine public tender conducted in the first quarter of this fiscal year.
In EMEA Varian was selected to supply four TrueBeam systems for the Beatson Cancer Centre in Glasgow and its planned new satellite center at nearby Monklands hospital.
We also had a key win in Germany where a hospital group placed an order to replace two of their eight Siemens machines with TrueBeam systems.
This group also ordered our Eclipse treatment planning software and our ARIA oncology information software to replace their LANTIS network.
We continue to expand our business across Africa with orders in Algeria Morocco Libya Nigeria and South Africa.
North America generated strong order growth for service and software while equipment orders were soft during the quarter.
We had a big win in Nebraska at the Buffett Cancer Center which ordered our Edge Radiosurgery system our TrueBeam system as well as treatment planning and oncology information software to replace competitive products.
U.S.
hospitals which today comprise about 90% of our North American equipment orders we see positive reimbursement news at the end of the quarter.
CMS has proposed a modest overall 2% increase in rates for calendar year 2015.
Hospital rates would rise for both radiotherapy and radiosurgery and a proposed new bundled rate for radiosurgery remains equal whether the treatment is delivered with a LINAC or a Cobalt unit.
All those being equal I expect that machine versatility and patient throughput will become more and more important for buyers of radiosurgery systems.
As an aside a study conducted at the University of Alabama at Birmingham shows that RapidArc radiosurgery is substantially more efficient and comparable in plan quality to a competitive Cobalt system for treatment of multiple brain metastases.
This study has been published online and is slated to appear in the October issue of Neurosurgery.
We are generally pleased with the hospital reimbursement proposal which we hope will lead to further replacement of older systems with newer higher throughput units that are capable of delivering both video therapy and radiosurgery.
For freestanding clinics CMS is proposing a policy change to exclude the radiation treatment vault as a direct expense in the rate calculation.
Rate reduction for conventional 3-D radiotherapy IMRT and SDRT would range between 2% to more than 6%.
We expect that this proposed policy change will be the topic of debate between now and November when CMS finalizes the rates for next year.
We are partnering with others within the industry to advocate for reversal of this policy.
Oncology Service was again a star performer delivering another quarter of double-digit growth with particularly strong performance in North America.
Service represented about 40% of oncology orders for the quarter and the year-to-date.
On the product front we have made good progress during the quarter in our software business which was particularly strong in North America.
Orders ramped up for our FullScale solution that fully integrates our ARIA information system and our Eclipse treatment planning software in the cloud for hospitals and clinics of any size.
Earlier today we announced the deployment of FullScale at e+CancerCare a multi-site network of cancer clinics in the U.S.
FullScale is also deployed at Vantage Oncology a network of over 60 oncology centers.
FullScale users are delighted with the speed flexibility scalability and accessibility of their data on smartphones and tablets as well as computers.
At the annual meeting of the American Association of Physicists in Medicine or AAPM this week we featured several products for quality assurance and sharing clinical knowledge through data analytics.
We exhibited a new software tool called Machine Performance Check for automating tests to help confirm that our tubing system is operating within proper parameters.
It completes 18 tests in just five minutes and adds another level of competence for centers that are performing more and more sophisticated procedures.
We also showed Qumulate a cloud-based data management tool for quality assurance as a works in progress.
Clinicians will be able to use this tool to create templates for their QA processes identify trends in QA data and compare their machines' test performance to the average of machines at other treatment centers.
By using tools like this we expect clinicians will be able to enhance the consistency and efficiency of their treatment processes.
Other products featured at the meeting included RapidPlan for knowledge-based treatment planning our new Velocity tool for aggregating imaging and treatment data and TrueBeam 2.0 which now includes enhanced image guidance and motion management capabilities to the TrueBeam platform.
Among the presentations at AAPM was a talk by researchers from Champalimaud Center in Portugal and the Henry Ford center in Detroit confirming that our Edge radiosurgery system can target cancerous tumors with sub-millimeter accuracy.
Their end-to-end testing showed that our efforts to integrate multiple subsystems can result in a high level of precision for certain radiosurgery cases.
You may have seen a press release issued early in June about a 79-year old patient who chose RapidArc radiosurgery rather than conventional surgery for his lung cancer.
He got five treatments on our TrueBeam surgery unit and each session was completed in about 10 minutes a much easier alternative to surgery.
It is both exciting and gratifying to all of us at Varian to see the dramatic improvements in treatment opportunities our innovations offer patients.
Let me turn to our Imaging Components segment.
Gross orders for this segment increased 12% to $162 million with strong growth in panels and tubes that was partially offset by soft demand for our security products.
Gross orders grew in excess of 30% in our panel business.
This included a contract with a large OEM in China for 1 000 panels that will be delivered over the next two years.
Other X-ray equipment manufacturers are designing our panels into new imaging systems setting the stage for continued growth in this product line.
Healthy order growth in our X-ray tube product line was driven by our big OEM customers for use in CT scanners general radiography and mammography systems.
We are now focused on targeting new OEMs to expand the market and we shipped a number of new X-ray tubes for evaluation by these customers during the quarter.
Our Imaging Components has built its backlog as we assign more long term contracts for both panels and tubes.
The company's Other category which is comprised of the Varian Particle Therapy business and Ginzton Technology Center recorded growth orders of $57 million in the third quarter.
During the quarter our proton team booked its third order of the fiscal year to supply our ProBeam proton therapy system at the National Taiwan University.
We expect the total value of the agreement is estimated to be about $100 million including long-term operations and maintenance services.
We continue to see strong customer interest and good momentum in this business which is now booked nearly $120 million in gross orders so far this year.
During the quarter JPMorgan assume $45 million of our approximately $125 million loan commitment to the Scripps proton project.
We believe this is a mark of the growing confidence of the financial community has in our ProBeam proton solution.
Scripps is continuing to expand the range of cancers that it is treating with this exciting and it has completed its first pediatric treatment on a 17-year old patient from Provo Utah.
She has been affected with the tumor on her brain stem for 15 years.
She had numerous surgeries to control the spread of the tumor but doctors could not completely eradicate it because it was too close to her brain stem.
Further surgeries were not recommended so she turned to proton therapy.
Her hope is that the treatment ends the tumor once and for all.
We hope so too.
Now I will turn it over to Elisha.
Thanks Dow and hello everyone.
While Dow has already covered gross orders I want to briefly talk about the constant currency growth rates for the quarter.
In comparing quarter-over-quarter exchange rates the negative impact from weakening of the yen was more than offset by a positive impact from the strengthening of the euro and other currencies.
Oncology gross orders decreased 1% in dollars and 2% in constant currency.
Oncology's North American gross orders were about even with the year ago quarter in dollars and constant currency.
EMEA gross orders increased 2% in dollars and declined 1% in constant currency.
Asia where we saw a quarter-over-quarter weakening of the yen was down 6% in dollars and down 5% from the year ago quarter in constant currency.
Oncology orders in rest of world region fell by 19% in dollars and 17% in constant currency driven by a slowdown in Australia.
Third quarter revenues for the total company increased 3% in dollars and 2% in constant currency.
Year-to-date total company revenues were also up 3% in dollars and 4% in constant currency.
Oncology Systems posted a 3% gain in revenues during the quarter consistent with year-to-date growth of 3%.
For the quarter and year-to-date Oncology Service comprised about 40% of Oncology revenues.
Imaging Components posted a third quarter revenue gain of 2% with double-digit growth in our flat panel products largely offset by a decline in our X-ray tube products.
Revenues were impacted by improved CT tube quality that has enabled our largest customers to lower inventory levels and delay purchases.
Year-to-date Imaging Components revenues were up 4% from the year ago period with double-digit growth in panels largely offset by declines in tubes and Security &amp; Inspection products.
Revenues in the Other category were up slightly from the year ago quarter.
Year-to-date revenues were down from the year ago period when we recorded higher revenues from multiple proton projects.
Total company gross margin for the quarter was 43.3% up 55 basis points from the year ago quarter.
Year-to-date total company gross margin was 43% 58 basis points.
Oncology Systems gross margin was 44.1% up 38 basis points from the year ago quarter.
Year-to-date Oncology Systems gross margin was 43.9% up 44 basis points.
These gains are largely due to a mix shift towards higher margin software and service as well as improved quality costs.
Imaging Components gross margin for the quarter was 42.2% up 125 basis points from the year ago quarter with a shift to more higher margin panel sales and significant improvements in X-ray tubes quality costs.
Year-to-date Imaging Components gross margin was 41.7% up 29 basis points from the year ago period due largely to improved quality costs in our X-ray tubes products.
Third quarter SG&amp;A expenses were $124 million or 17% of revenues.
This included an approximate $8 million non-cash charge for the impairment of a portion of our existing equity investment in Augmenix.
As a reminder we invested in and obtained an option to acquire Augmenix three years ago.
Augmenix is today announcing additional financing from multiple investors and the expiration of our option.
We recorded the impairment charge based on the current valuation of Augmenix.
We continue to hold our minority interest in this company and see promise in their technology.
The impairment charge increased SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue by one point.
Year-to-date including the patent litigation charge in the second quarter and the impairment charge in the third quarter SG&amp;A expenses were 17% of revenue.
These unusual charges together increased SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue by 1.5 point.
Third quarter R&amp;D expenses were $57 million or 8% of revenues up 30 basis points as a percentage of revenue from the year ago quarter.
Year-to-date R&amp;D expenses were also 8% of revenue up 90 basis points from the year ago period as we continued to invest in our global strategies and execute on our product roadmap.
Moving down the income statement third quarter operating earnings including the impairment charge totaled $143 million or 19.1% of revenues.
Year-to-date operating earnings as a percentage of revenues were 18.4% down about two points from the year ago period.
The impairment charge together with the patent litigation settlement in the second quarter accounted for 1.5 point of the two points decline in the year-to-date operating margin.
Depreciation and amortization totaled $15 million for the quarter and $46 million year-to-date.
The effective tax rate was down two points from the year ago quarter to 25.5%.
And year-to-date the effective tax rate was down about half a point to 28.1%.
Fully diluted shares outstanding decreased from the year ago quarter to $104.9 million due largely to our ongoing share repurchase program.
Diluted earnings per share was $1.02 for the third quarter.
The impairment charge negatively impacted EPS in the quarter by about $0.06.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $926 million debt of $480 million and stockholders' equity of $1.7 billion.
DSO at 95 was up 11 days from the year ago quarter with an approximate eight-day impact from the proton therapy business where deferred payments terms are not yet due but revenue has been recognized under the percentage of completion method.
Third quarter cash flow from operations was $86 million less than net income primarily due to working capital increases in inventory and the payment of the Q2 patent litigation settlement.
Primary uses of cash were $103 million toward the repurchase of 1.25 million shares of stock.
At the end of the quarter we had 2.75 million shares remaining under the existing repurchase authorization that extends through calendar year 2014.
Now I will turn it back to Dow for the outlook.
Thanks Elisha.
We realize that our guidance range for Q4 is broad the timing of our proton therapy projects is hard predict and any one deal can have a significant impact on our financials in a given quarter.
We expect total company revenues for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014 to increase in the range of 7% to 15% and we expect net earnings per diluted share for the fourth quarter to be in the range of $1.14 to $1.29.
We are now ready for your questions.
Thank you.
At this time we will conduct our question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Jeff Johnson with Robert Baird.
Please state the question.
Thank you.
Good afternoon guys.
Can you hear me okay? Hi Jeff.
Hi.
Okay.
Elisha I wanted to start with you on the SG&amp;A line I appreciate that the last couple quarters there's been some non-recurring items in there but I by exclude them including the $8 million charges this quarter it looks like your SG&amp;A this quarter hit and almost five-year high as a percentage of revenue definitely came in $7 million or $8 million hot relative to our expectations.
So just wondering if you could give us any insight on this SG&amp;A costs.
Sure Jeff we get a lot of variability in SG&amp;A from hedging and legal expenses and I would guesstimate it's about 60% fixed 40% variable.
I think it's better to look at year-to-date and if you come back to year-to-date as a percentage of revenue if you exclude the impairment and you exclude the University of Pittsburgh charge it's up 40 basis points.
So that really was -- in our expectations for the year as we've noted both on R&amp;D and SG&amp;A it's the year of investment.
And so we’re just expanding our global operations and that's where those 40 basis points come from.
But yes if you look at any given quarter you’re going to get variability.
I think really it was more a factor of we had some proton revenue move out of the quarter and so as a percentage of revenue it looks very high in Q3.
Okay.
And that segues on to my question.
I guess on the proton side at one point you were talking about $100 million to $150 million in revenue this year.
I think year-to-date you've done $23 million.
So hard to see even if you book Maryland and flow some of that revenue through that you get those targets.
So wondering maybe if you can address that? Number one.
And number two if the cyclotron is now in at Maryland I thought in the past you guys a talked about you wouldn't install the cyclotron unless financing was largely in place or fully in place.
And so just wondering what the hang-up is still on either finance being in place there for that order officially being booked and those profits flowing through this year into the guidance.
Thank you.
Sure.
So Jeff let me come back to your first question.
So I think as of the last time I had tagged it at about $125 million that we have built-in to our revenue expectations for the year.
Come off that a little bit just based on Q3 is closer to call it $110 million $115 million for the year.
And you’re absolutely right; there is a significant portion of this $65 million $70 million hedging on Maryland.
These tend to be very large projects and if a customer’s date moves on when they're ready for equipment we then obviously slowdown on building the inventory.
That slows down the cost we’ve incurred which slows down the revenue.
So it's really just the timing of these can be very very hard to predict.
That said it is just a matter of timing.
We've had none of these are proton deals fall part and we're feeling very confident about that business in general.
In terms of Maryland again we continue to be -- we're working closely with ATT our customer there.
They’re making good progress.
They have completed their equity financing working with several large institutions on the debt.
Thanks to stealing documents and it’s the due diligence and the timing and the documentation the timing is just so hard to predict but we’re absolutely committed to the viability of this project.
We did deliver the cyclotron.
We have a large almost $20 million non-refundable down payment as well as we've retained his security interest in the equipment.
So again we felt like it was the right thing to do to keep this project moving so that we can get this center out of the ground.
All right.
Thanks.
And just last question I was going to ask it but with EBS change in the guidance by a few pennies coming down of the low end and JPMorgan taking that trench of the Scripps debt out.
If memory serves that was a pretty high price debt that you guys had financed and were getting the benefit of an interest income.
Does that explain the changing guidance or am I over-reading that? No.
It's really just one quarter that's coming out.
So it will have an impact.
Hopefully we’re going to get to take that money that's indicated and redeploy it to another proton project and get our 8% 9% interest back.
But Jeff if I look at where we were originally 422 to 434 because we have the midpoint in Q3 it was right where in the middle of where we expected to land.
We just came off $0.02 on the high end to reflect that.
And then we broaden the range for protons just given as time goes on and we're incurring more cost of these things without is just a bigger impact to revenue.
So just gave ourselves a little more breathing room on the proton business but it had nothing really to do with the debt syndication.
Understood.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Tycho Peterson with JP Morgan.
Please state your question.
This is actually Patrick Donnelly in for Tycho.
Thanks for taking the question.
Hi Patrick.
Dow you talk about the CMS proposed rates from earlier this month and noted throughputs are going to become more important.
We've also heard building discussion about clinical data.
How you go about build out building clinical evidence on a different technology to show Varian is the best option? And how important do you view this? Well I think the -- first of all from an overall reimbursement point of view as mentioned in the script we’re positive about the hospital side.
I think that's pretty good momentum for our market.
That freestanding side as I mentioned is again we've got another year of pressure for freestanding.
Largely due to a change in how the vault is calculated as an expense.
And -- so between now and the final ruling on reimbursement there will be a lot of activity around that which we will join.
In terms of clinical data clinical data is very very important.
I think I mentioned UAV paper that will be published here this next month on stereotactic radiosurgery in the brain that will be a very nice paper for us.
That will really demonstrate the efficiency and versatility of our machine.
And equivalency in terms of clinical outcome relative to cobalt-based brain radiosurgery.
So we're optimistic about that.
I think the growing body of evidence in lung cancer is a big deal.
We continue to see that grow literally almost every day.
And I think that will be a theme at Astro both in the customer presentations clinical presentations at the show as well as some of the technologies that we're working on for the show.
In proton therapy one of the things that we're seeing is a nice demonstration especially of the benefit of proton therapy in head and neck that's an emerging application with good clinical data forthcoming.
And I think that will help boost some of the proton therapy efforts.
Thanks.
And can you expand a bit more on China.
I know you guys expected growth to see an uptick in the second half and certainly saw that with the 20% growth number you mentioned.
Maybe just talk to those dynamics and how you expect growth to trend going forward? Sure may be for just a second I can step back to the overall emerging markets.
Brazil Russia India China Africa for us we're up 70% in the quarter and are up 20% year-to-date.
The BRICA now including Africa is about 15% of our oncology business.
And as I said in the script we've had double-digit growth this quarter in China India Eastern Europe and Africa.
Interesting in Africa we had good orders performance in Morocco Nigeria South Africa and Libya.
So we continue to seek the content move which is encouraging.
India was up 50% for us on the quarter and 35% year-to-date.
So that's kind of a nice story overall emerging markets.
China itself to get your question we had a very good quarter.
China orders were up 20%.
The market appears to be recovering.
We’re continuing to make a pretty substantial commercialization effort in that market.
So we began in earnest in 15 or 18 months ago.
And we have a terrific team in place right now.
And I think we’re really starting to make some nice headway in that market.
We -- as I mentioned the market is recovering and we also believe our share is improving in that market and we’re seeing some nice success in the tender business there in China as well.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Steve Beuchaw with Morgan Stanley.
Please state your question.
Hi good afternoon.
Thanks for taking the questions everyone.
Dow I wonder if you could spend a minute talking about what you’re hearing from customers in the U.S.
particularly in hospitals about large equipment spending.
Software is doing well service is doing well equipment is not doing as well and it’s clearly the on-market issue.
Can you give us a sense for what you’re hearing from the hospitals about how they’re thinking about budgets and how they’re evolving? What the impact of ACA has been so far this year? And your general thoughts on the market in North America? Thanks.
You know I would say the -- we continue to hear some of the things that we talked about continued consolidation of the market people moving to more regional integration on the full provider side hospital and non-hospital.
So we are seeing regional consolidation there.
I think we've talked about the fact that deals are getting larger and more complex as a result.
It does slow down a little bit the purchasing process.
Freestanding market as I mentioned in the script is very quiet and an uncertain reimbursement environment.
And I think that will continue on the hospital side.
Still very bullish about radiation therapy and the strong are investing and figuring out how to strengthen themselves.
We see a continued attention given to total cost of ownership.
I think that underscores our capability.
We have the most versatile machine out there and that people will look especially at cost of -- lifecycle ownership of their radiation therapy we're very favorably positioned.
I'd say at a very high level hospitals are looking very hard at their capital budgets and we are -- there's been a lot of conversations about where the budgets goes.
But I think still very favorable outlook in hospital market towards radiation therapy.
Got it.
That’s really helpful.
Actually piggybacking on your comment about large orders Elisha have you given people a sense at this point for how the backlog in Oncology has evolved in terms of what fraction of the backlog is comprised of these large multi-year orders? Not really Steve.
I mean we do have several orders that have been announced that we have not yet booked.
I mean Brazil obviously being the largest one in there or several in North America as well.
So we have very strict order booking guidelines.
So if it doesn’t have a two-year delivery window it doesn’t go into backlog.
And if it's contingent on financing it does go into backlog.
I think one thing if you look at Oncology on a net basis in the quarter and year-to-date up 2% so slightly different I think we've gotten through a lot of the removable of these freestanding cancer centers where we had issue the last several quarters.
I just don’t have it quantified but we have several of these large deals that have not met the order booking guidelines as of today.
Got it.
And Elisha could we get the percentage of net oncology orders that was North America? That was North America was -- yes up 6% on a net basis.
Perfect.
Thanks so much everyone.
Our next question comes from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Please state your question.
Thank you again.
Good afternoon.
I wanted to come back to the guidance make sure I understand what's implied in the 7%to 15% number for the fourth quarter.
Am I reading this correctly that 7% basically excludes that $65 million and the 15% inclusive that’s basically the delta that I'm getting high to low? Yes David roughly.
But don’t hold me to an absolute dollar amount.
But yes we would be at the high-end if we get the Maryland deal.
We will be towards the low end if we don’t.
So that’s kind of how -- that’s why we are putting this -- it's just such a big number on a single deal that we felt like we have to give you the full range.
That’s perfectly understood.
And then just as you think about the low end of the range you haven’t put a 7% growth number now and in basically since the second quarter of fiscal 2013.
What are you seeing in the business that gives you confidence in seeing that acceleration in the fourth quarter ex-proton particularly when I look at the gross order numbers in the fourth quarter of last year being fairly sharply down year-over-year? Yeah.
Well again I come back to it's just a detailed look at what's in backlog and the fact that our service business continues to grow our flat panel business which are short cycle businesses which we saw very strong order growth in Q3 from both of those product lines it's just coming back to what we expect to deliver out of backlog.
Oncology in terms of revenue has been spot on this year from forecast on looking at the backlog and what the revenue is going to be.
So I hear you I understand you.
But what it means is its still for 4% for Oncology for the year.
So it's not like we are seeing huge high-single digit growth year-over-year.
It's just how the quarters play out.
Got it.
And the last just on the imaging business because that’s been a really strong franchise for you and maybe you could just go into little bit more detail on the comment you made on revenues impacted by I think you said improved CT quality.
And maybe just how we should think about that in the context of the business on a go forward basis and if you think that’s going to have any appreciable impact relative to the strong growth rate we've seen over the past several quarters? Maybe I can talk about the overall business and Elisha can talk about the two quality piece.
Overall first half of this year we had a little lighter growth rate so we were really pleased to see the higher growth rate in Imaging Components business this quarter.
Tubes were up 14% flat panel was up 34% and then our security was quite substantially so overall we were up 12%.
We continue to see digitization driving the flat panel piece.
So we think that that growth will continue.
On the tube quality side one there is improvement in tube quality it tends to drive one time or gradual one-time adjustments in order rates.
And I think that’s what we've seen from some of our big customers is that we've executed nice tube it helps on a margin rate side.
But it causes things to slow down little bit on the order rate side.
We might have another quarter of that -- two quarters of that as we go forward.
But I think we will see it anniversary and move forward.
Yeah and I would say the tubes are just lasting significantly longer.
So I think we are building some customer loyalty and satisfaction.
And as Dow said the gross margin the quarter was up 125 basis points driven almost exclusively by -- and the tube margins were up I think 5 points in the quarter.
So it does -- it hurts us on the revenue line but it comes back at the gross margin level.
Okay.
That’s helpful perspective.
Thank you.
And it makes us tough to compete with.
It makes tough to get out of there.
So tube-like is good.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Amit Hazan with SunTrust.
Please state your question.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Can you hear me okay? Yeah.
Great.
Let me just start with a softer one first.
I want to maybe ask on the software in U.S.
market share side in particular.
I wanted to be careful on how I asked because I know every company likes to say they are gaining share that Oncology is really no exception to that.
But I want to try to understand what you are doing on the software side and on the Oncology IT side maybe in particular FullScale and maybe RapidArc and things like that new offerings.
If that visibly helped you gain system market share at all yet be it competitive conversion the Greenfield units and if you kind of how you see that going forward as well.
How important the factor is that in the market right now?  I would say it's helping us.
We've always had a very strong position in treatment planning our introduction of RapidArc really strengthen that business five year ago.
The continued strength of our algorithms our capabilities in treatment planning is a nice differentiator for us in the marketplace and we are demonstrating a leadership for there for sure.
The ability to deliver the physician prescription in there and they just want to know that it happens the QA happens the delivery happens and then the record and verify and interaction with the EMR all happens the way it's supposed to.
That’s really what the physician wants to care about that’s all seamless and integrated.
And I think we've got a very good position there.
And I think that we are starting to see -- I think we've always had some benefit in treatment planning and we are starting to see some benefit from our Oncology Information System our ARIA product as well as it impact hardware sales.
So as I said in the script we think our share in North America is up a little bit.
So to answer your question directly I think that’s part of it FullScale.
People really like the virtualization of FullScale going to the private cloud is a big deal we've seen that in front of our large accounts.
We are starting to see that in kind of the next tier of accounts folks you have 5 to 15 centers.
I'd say the early adoption of FullScale has been folks that have -- customers that have more than a dozen accelerators.
And what we've seen is that virtualization is driving our productivity story and our credibility story and I think we've got a nice position.
We've launched the product in China.
It's not just helping us in the U.S.
its helping us outside of the U.S.
and we've got teams across the globe getting very excited about it and customers I think are taking notice.
It just -- two more quick questions.
One to follow-up on the orders comments in North America.
And I had the similar question last quarter and I think it's pretty important to ask it again.
From Oncology orders in North America if I remove the service component from the quarter it implies the non-service side the unit side.
It would be down way into the double-digits on what frankly was another not so hard comp.
So just trying to put that in context with your commentary especially into quarter that you are seeing signs of recovery in the North American market just does not seem to be the case in any way from the numbers that you are reporting on the actual system side.
So I'm just trying to reconcile there was commentary that -- especially in your slide presentation which was your actually putting up in terms of unit -- implied unit numbers into North American market.
Yeah so let me bring you back year-to-date again.
I think it's more reflective of what's going on in the market and you get such volatility in any given quarter.
Year-to-date North America is up 5% international is up 2%.
So it is true that the service year-to-date is up in the low-teens so 13% which means the rest of Oncology is down 1% to 2%.
Service is driving the growth.
So yes the rest of the business is down but nowhere near double-digit.
It's 1% or 2% year-to-date.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then last one still I have that -- this question at this point.
I mean I thought you guys are long time I think during that time in terms of your ability to forecast revenue and earnings and then hitting or beating those targets I've kind of witnessed which is kind of a rather significant change between the Varian of several years ago that literally never missed the number.
And the Varian of today that I think it missed at least one number and more than half of the last quarter in the last couple of the years I realized a lot of things going on and there is huge FX factor out there that’s out of your control that’s hurt you in quarters in the last couple of years.
But I think maybe it’s a proper time to ask you what you think has changed within the company to cause that? And what you're doing maybe to change that to be able to forecast more accurately and go back to maybe the Varian of old? Yeah so -- and I don’t want to come up across defensive that I'm going to just start with we hit the high-end of our range in Q1 we hit the high-end of our range in Q2 we hit the midpoint of our range in Q3.
So year-to-date let's call it up a $0.01 from the range that we've given.
In a word Amit it's proton.
As the revenue starts to come to fruition in these proton deals it is almost impossible on the timing.
So that’s why we are trying to guide with and without proton.
It is just extremely difficult to predict with accuracy.
So hear you the sales mess was entirely proton in the third quarter and again why we are putting this broad range on Q4 and the year.
There is no change in how we are forecasting.
I mean the business is bigger its complex.
We have more software which means we are trying to tie in exceptions.
It's just a nature of the beast.
But our forecasting we try and go into is absolute much detailed as we can.
Yeah and I would just echo that.
The core business our processes haven’t changed.
If anything they’ve improved.
And to at least Elisha's timing issue if Linac moved one day outside of the quarter that’s basically a $0.01 share for us.
So I think we've done really good job of managing our overall earnings and EPS forecasting.
Now the revenue forecasting with protons is where it gets tough and that’s what we had missed this quarter.
Fair enough.
I appreciate the commentary.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Anthony Petron with Jefferies.
Please state your question.
Thanks guys and good afternoon.
So how are you there? Just to start on Oncology for a second there.
Dow your comments last quarter talking about large orders that we initially signed with hospitals in the U.S.
some of those Lenexa potentially could have booked this quarter and next quarter.
I'm just wondering if there is an update on -- actually if there was any orders that were signed in the fiscal second quarter that would book this quarter and how should we be thinking about that for the fourth quarter? I think we -- as we mentioned last quarter we continue to see large orders and yes we do see some move from quarter-to-quarter but I think at this point now it equal.
What moved from last quarter into this quarter and moves from this quarter into next quarter are different ones.
So we do look at every one of these very hard.
But I would say in any given quarter depending on the size of an order it can move the number around and that we don’t guide to orders and its maybe predictability of orders forecasting a little bit tougher.
But we do continue to see large orders.
These large orders contain complex equipment with multiple-year deliveries and little more complexity on that side of the order as people consolidate a couple of years' worth of purchases together and then across multiple sites.
So we are seeing that.
Yeah in any given quarter it maybe goes one direction or the other.
I think at this point it’s at least coming into Q4.
Yeah there were some orders that we thought we would have booked at the end of Q3 we'd love to have them.
Now they're going to happen in Q4.
Those are going to be incremental to our number in Q4.
I can look you in the eye and tell you one way or the other.
Right right.
And maybe just a quick follow-up and then a move over to proton.
So is it safe to say your book-to-bill clearly has extended here the book-to-bill cycle.
But is there any maybe number around about how much that’s actually extended? I think it’s hard to tell because of the continued globalization of the business.
I'd say in the U.S.
we probably are seeing the book-to-bill extend a little bit.
But outside of the U.S.
tender driven business -- once the tender is done people want their equipment.
Now I haven't done the analytics but I would say on balance its probably haven’t changed that much.
Elisha any change to that? No I think that’s correct.
And then just round that with protons just to stay on that -- the lumpiness.
Maybe Dow and/or Elisha can you maybe give in a little bit as to actually where you are actually seeing the delays? I know these are complicated construction projects.
These project delays are they financial delays or maybe something else that we are just not seeing from the outside looking in? No it just have to do with the timing of the projects.
So if a date gets delayed when they are equipment by a quarter then we are not going to build as much inventory quite as fast.
And so we are not incurring the cost.
If we are waiting on a gantry that we purchased to deliver to go into our cost structure and that gantry hits in one quarter versus the other it's just everything about protons is small number great big dollar.
And it just moves us from one quarter to the next.
And last one on proton and I will jump back in.
Is -- we've been hearing a lot about single vault systems and you guys had the FDA approval for ProBeam.
So was that playing out there in the marketplace? Is there more of a discussion on price and or some of these contracts maybe slowing down because they are considering single vault units et cetera.
But maybe a little bit of color there would be helpful.
Thanks.
Yeah I think the -- we've had pretty good year so far.
We've booked three systems this year.
There is -- we are competing on a large number of projects.
So we continue to feel poorly bullish that the proton business can be $200 million to $300 million business for us.
There is noise about compact machines.
We have our own probing the compact machine.
We've got several customers looking at that machine.
It has several advantages.
It's the only compact machine on the market with full 360 degree rotational gantry capability and it's got the best intensity modulated proton therapy capability which over at the PT cog the Proton Therapy Meeting in Shanghai last month that was all the news.
It felt a little bit like to 2000 2001 and IMRT.
And we feel very good about our position with that capability and a short version is the feedback from customers is multi-room or single room don't want to do proton therapy with outstanding capability.
And -- so we feel great about our position there.
We have not seen a lot of growth in that compactor room market yet.
There's others that got some early share maybe a year or two ago but there hasn't been a big increase in recent orders because people want scanned beam technology and until there’s scanned beam option in that market it’s not going to grow and that's why we feel very good about our position.
We do have scanned beam capability with that probing compact product.
And we’re in discussions with a few customers about worldwide about taking on that product.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vijay Kumar with ISI Group.
Please state your question.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
I guess my first one Dow you guys have been talking about this replacement cycle in the U.S.
so can you just sort of talk to us because I think some of the signs that we’re seeing we’re seeing utilization pick up.
I think some of the commentary from to hospitals is sounding more positive.
They do you feel like the pursing to loosening up.
So if these trends were to play out do you feel like the replacement cycle is finally going to happen and can be get more comfortable more positive on the timing? I think the challenges the freestanding market.
The hospital replacement market I think as we said there is now 90% of our oncology orders is the U.S.
hospital market.
The freestanding centers as a percentage of installed base it's a strong third of the U.S.
installed base.
And they are not replacing.
That replacement market is very very quiet.
And until we see some movement there I think -- the good news is the hospital market is moving and we're seeing some nice action on the hospital side.
But we’re -- that's not enough to offset the one-third of the installed base that's the freestanding market.
And that one third is at least at this point very quiet replacement cycle.
I think the that to happen we would need to see some movement in reimbursements and as I mentioned in the call that's why there's a lot of consensus and activity going on around getting this vault calculation back in the reimbursement scenario for freestanding customers.
That was helpful and maybe one for Elisha.
You guys have probably been one of the most balanced cap room -- very shareholder friendly.
You've done all the actions right.
And so I guess if you’re looking at this new environment right Elisha to Dow's point if the freestanding centers remain anemic what else can you do from the balance sheet capability like have you guys thought about additional avenues create shareholder value.
VK I'm not exactly where sure you're going with this.
We’re using our balance sheet strategically to go in and offer financing and it's on a fairly limited basis.
We don't want to go crazy with this.
When we can win business by offering terms in a zero interest rate environment we’re doing that.
I think we've got the ability to step-up a lot more in terms of our proton financing.
I don't know that we’ll do like we did at Scripps on our first one when we essentially financed at all until it was built or the vast majority.
But I do anticipate that we’re going to participate in these proton projects to some extent going forward.
We’ll continue to spend more than our cash flow from operations in the U.S.
on share repurchase.
We've got 1 million to 2 million shares per quarter and I think you should expect that at least in the short-term that should continue.
But if you were going -- because I don't think we’re going to actually buy or invest in customer-centered and then be competing with our other customers.
Got it.
And maybe if I could speak one last one in.
On the tax rate Elisha what are your thoughts longer-term tax structure? Well we've been able to bring the tax rate down over the last several years by I don’t know 50 basis points to 100 basis points a year.
Right now it’s going to kind of depend in the short-term on whether this R&amp;D tax credit gets extended or not.
But as we’re selling more international all things equal that helps on the tax rate.
So I think for the fiscal year we’ll be around 28%.
If I look back several years ago we were in the low to mid-30.
So we’re taking down as we become more and more international all things equal.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Jason Wittes with Brean Capital.
Please state your question.
Hi thanks for fitting me in.
I wanted to ask about proton revenues and recognition.
I think what you said earlier was roughly beginning of your thinking about $100 million to $150 million of proton revenue this year and I think assuming looking at Maryland it’s going to fall in the $110 million to $115 million range.
Does that mean that roughly $20 million to $25 million or so revenues that we should have seen this year was just getting pushed into next year mainly because of project delays and things like that? That's the right way to think about it? Yes.
And I mean specifically which projects I assume everything that's ongoing right now has seen some kind of small delay and that's what's contributed to this? We’ve got eight or nine in the backlog and I’d say four or five are impacting the number.
Four and five that are basically started construction? Yeah started to recognize revenue.
Recognize yeah.
Okay.
And then it sounds like with some refinancing from Scripps you can use that for of the projects and perhaps even like a Maryland use that to push -- get them over the gap in terms of financing and then recognize revenues.
Is that a reasonable assumption to look at it that way? That is a distinct possibility.
And if you should assume that on -- we will likely be in the facility at some level.
But not -- I don't expect at this point that we would be a majority participant.
It sounds like that would be enough potentially to bridge them over the gap and allow you to recognize revenue hopefully.
Hopefully.
Hopefully fair enough.
And then I just wanted to ask about -- I read your comments -- I think your commentary was pretty accurate pretty much in line with everybody else is thinking in terms of reimbursement.
The hospitals look like they are up slightly.
The freestanding clinics again took a hit.
I guess the question is I assume that will basically stall anything going on as a freestanding clinics in purchasing until things are decided November but also to we have a risk-- Jason the only thing I'd say that does not stalls anything because it's already installed.
I was going to put the distinction and that's a fair -- I agree with that.
But curious if there's something in the backlog that could potentially be written down as we saw at the beginning of last year or the end of last year.
Just because there may be a big contract in there that could be impacted by-- We look at a very hard every quarter now.
We’re very comfortable with our order booking guidelines.
I can't predict cancellations.
That should something we have to take as they come.
Fair enough.
And then just one last question on Proton.
There was a question about single room centers which appear to be emerging.
I guess if you look over the next two years do you see them playing an important role in the market itself or do you still think that the focus is going to be in the larger three or five room centers? I think focus is going to be -- link this to previous question is going to can you demonstrate the clinical evidence to the advantage of proton therapy and to really get that you need good intensity modulated proton therapy.
And therefore you got to have hand beam technology and that's what people are going to be looking at.
Okay that's fair.
I appreciate that.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
I appreciate it.
We have time for one more question.
We’re over the top.
But I'm sorry we couldn't get to everybody but this will be the last question.
Thank you.
Our final question today comes from Jeremy Feffer with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Please state your question.
Good afternoon guys thank you for squeezing me in.
Most of my questions have been answered.
I will just ask this one follow-up to a previous question about service versus systems within oncology.
You mentioned system is being down is that more units or come in a little bit on the pricing dynamics going on? It's really more a reflection of units.
The pricing is a hard question to answer because for instance if it's a TrueBeam versus a unique it's very very different pricing.
But I would say apples-to-apples machine-to-machine pricing is holding.
You can see that in the margin rate.
Okay.
And so last one -- squeeze last one in.
You talked about this obviously is an investment year.
I know we're not talking about 2015 guidance just yet I’m just wondering how we think about I guess in general terms margin performance going forward.
Can we expect small bits of leverage obviously correcting for variations in proton but just in the core business can be expect some -- little margin expansion over time? In 90 days.
I want to know now.
Not guidance Jeremy but I mean I’d we’re going to try and manage to get a small amount of leverage.
We're kind of at the top when it comes to our EBIT margin relative to the medical device space.
And so -- but we’re going to manage for incremental improvement.
But generally by growing corporate expenses slower than we grow the topline.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
Thank you very much.
Thanks all.
Thank you for participating.
A replay of this call can be heard on the Varian Investor website at www.varian.com/investor.
It will be archived there for a year.
To hear a telephone replay dial 1877-660-6853 from inside the U.S.
or 201-612-7415 from outside the U.S.
and enter confirmation code 13585004.
Telephone replay will be available through 5 PM Friday July 25th.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
All parties may disconnect.
Have a great evening.
Greetings and welcome to the Varian Medical Systems’ Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Spencer Sias Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you Mr.
Sias.
You may begin.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you.
Good afternoon and welcome to Varian Medical Systems conference call for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014.
With me are Dow Wilson President and CEO; Elisha Finney CFO; and Clarence Verhoef our Corporate Controller.
Dow and Elisha will summarize our results and we will take your questions following the presentation.
To simplify our discussion unless otherwise stated all references to the quarter or year are fiscal quarters and fiscal years quarterly comparisons are for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014 versus the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013.
Please be advised that this presentation and discussion contains forward-looking statements.
Our use of words and phrases such as outlook believe expect will and similar expressions are intended to identify those statements which represents our current judgments on future performance or other future matters.
While we believe them to be reasonable based on information currently available to us these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of the important risks relating to our business are described in our fourth quarter earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements in this presentation and discussion because of new information future events or otherwise.
As a reminder please mark your calendars that Varian will be hosting its annual year end meeting for investors at the Westin Grand Central Hotel in New York from 11:30 AM to 1:00 PM on November 5.
Details are posted on your Investor Relations website.
We hope to see you there.
And now here is Dow.
Thanks Spencer and welcome everyone.
We are reporting mixed results for the fourth quarter of 2014 with strong gross orders growth but earnings that fell short of our expectations for two primary reasons.
Earnings were $1.02 per diluted share.
We did not book the Maryland Proton Therapy Center project which would have added $0.17 per diluted share and we had $0.09 per share diluted share impact from an unusually high increase in our tax rate.
Elisha will explain this in more detail later.
Now let me summarize the rest of the quarter.
We are reporting strong gross orders growth in our Oncology Systems business with several major wins in North America and Europe and continued double-digit strength in emerging markets.
Healthy order growth but flat revenues in our Imaging Components business.
Total company backlog up 10% at $3.2 billion including an 8% gain in our core businesses.
Revenues of $812 million up 5% from the year ago quarter.
Gross margin is down on Oncology Systems and up in Imaging Components and continued investment in R&amp;D and SG&amp;A to support our product roadmap and global expansion.
Oncology Systems gross orders grew 9% to $918 million for the quarter.
Gross orders for oncology grew 11% in North America aided by multi-system network wins at several customers.
We also saw one of the strongest ever quarters in Canada.
Performance in North America was helped by the sale of integrated systems combining linear accelerator software and stereotactic radiotherapy and radiosurgery offerings.
Our oncology gross orders grew 4% in EMEA during the quarter with significant wins in the UK Switzerland France Germany and Italy.
We were particularly strong in the UK where we were selected to supply 8 TrueBeams and a full suite of software to Guy’s and St.
Thomas Hospital in London.
Just a year after the UK National Health System supply chain ordered 20 TrueBeams we received an order for a further 10 TrueBeams demonstrating the strong demand for this system among the country’s hospitals.
We also saw orders for our first two Edge radiosurgery systems in the UK which will be installed at the Clatterbridge Center for Oncology near Liverpool.
Other highlights in our EMEA region included orders for our first 2 TrueBeams in Bulgaria and 12 TrueBeams ordered by a large customer in India.
Our team in India generated strong gross order growth for the quarter and for the year.
Total orders for BRICA territories including Brazil Russia India China and Africa grew by about 35% during the quarter with particular strength in Brazil and India.
BRICA orders were up by 25% for the year.
In Brazil we booked more than $30 million of the major Brazilian Ministry of Health tender that we are awarded a year ago helping the Latin America region to grow by more than 60% during the quarter.
Even without orders from the Brazil tender gross orders from Latin America were up by 10%.
We continued to make progress in China with strong unit volume growth and the mix shift towards lower cost units in hospitals that are striving for more cost efficient care.
Our global oncology service business continued to see double-digit growth with gross orders increasing 11% for the quarter and 12% for the full year.
Overall machine volume rose significantly during the quarter which will expand our installed base and set the stage for continued growth.
Service was 40% of the total oncology revenue for both the quarter and the year.
It’s been trending up as a percentage of total oncology business and we expect that this will continue.
Software was the highlight of our exhibit this year at ASTRO in September where we featured new cloud based software and data analytics tools that we believe create the opportunity to double our software business over the next few years.
We believe data analytics is the next frontier for our software business.
Our customers are excited about the potential of mining their data for better decision-making and improved clinical outcomes.
We had more than 900 attendees at our users meeting at ASTRO and there was tremendous interest in our new software tools.
These products included full-scale cloud based oncology information system for remotely managing clinical information and treatment planning data with greater cost efficiency.
We recorded more than $20 million in gross orders during the year with this product.
InSightive analytics our new interactive dashboard that enables clinicians to aggregate organize and present data from their operations for more informed decision making.
Customer interest in this product at ASTRO was tremendous.
Velocity for consolidating and compiling historical patient images and treatment data from numerous sources to guide clinicians in the next treatment decision for the patient.
And RapidPlan our knowledge-based treatment planning tool for enhancing the quality and efficiency of treatment planning orders for this product were up sharply in the fourth quarter.
Each of these products is priced at over $100 000.
Let me turn now to our imaging components segment.
Gross orders for this segment increased 16% to $234 million.
This was driven mainly by a more than $40 million order for security and inspection products that we expect to deliver over the next two years.
Orders for our X-ray tubes grew in mid-single digits in the quarter but were down for the year.
We continued to push for the new OEM customers during quarter while working to broaden the range of tubes we can offer as well as the markets we serve.
Panel gross orders were up in low-double digits for the fiscal year but down for the quarter versus the tough year ago comparison.
During the quarter we made our first shipments of integrated panels and software for a veterinary imaging system.
The company’s other category which is comprised of the Varian Particle Therapy business and the Ginzton technology center recorded gross orders of $3 million in the fourth quarter.
For the full year gross orders for this segment were $120 million up substantially from the previous year.
Customer financing at the Maryland Proton Project was not sufficiently completed to enable us to book an order for that project during the quarter.
We expect to book this deal when customer financing is completed and we will announce it at the appropriate time.
As of the end of the year our backlog included booked orders for proton therapy projects in Saudi Arabia Russia Cincinnati Taiwan and the Paul Scherrer Institute in Switzerland.
The script installation San Diego was essentially complete and is now generating service revenue.
In addition to Maryland proton contracts not yet financed or booked include proton centers in Atlanta and in Dallas.
Now I will turn it over to Elisha.
Thanks Dow.
Following Dow’s lead I am going to begin with a little more detail on the two significant items that impacted earnings in the quarter.
As Dow mentioned we did not book an order for the Maryland Proton Therapy Center because our customer financing was not sufficiently completed by fiscal year end.
Consequently we did not record an estimated $70 million in revenue for the project in the quarter which would have added about $0.17 per share to our earnings.
Earnings for the quarter were negatively impacted by about $0.09 per diluted share as a result of an increase in the annual effective tax rate.
For the first three quarters of the fiscal year our estimated annual tax rate was about 28%.
We ended the year with a rate closer to 30% with the full impact of the change resulting in a 6 point increase in the fourth quarter tax rate.
The increase in the tax rate was caused by two primary factors.
First the dollar strengthened significantly right at the end of September which led to a currency fluctuation impact on our taxes of approximately $0.06 per diluted share.
Secondly taxes were also about $0.03 per diluted share higher than anticipated because the Maryland project was not formed.
With that let me begin my normal walkthrough of the constant currency growth rate as well as the P&amp;L and balance sheet for the quarter.
Currency exchange rates had virtually no impact on overall gross orders and revenues versus the year ago quarter principally because the euro and yen offset each other.
Oncology gross orders for the quarter increased 9% in both dollars and constant currency.
Oncology’s North American gross orders were up 11% in dollars and up 12% in constant currency.
EMEA gross orders increased 4% in dollars and 2% in constant currency due to the strengthening of the euro quarter-over-quarter.
Asia where we followed slight weakening of the yen was down 3% in dollars and down 1% in constant currency.
Oncology gross orders in the small rest of world market grew by about 45% in dollars and constant currency.
Turning to the P&amp;L fourth quarter revenues for the total company increased 5% in both dollars and constant currency.
And for the full year total company revenues were up 4% in both dollars and constant currency.
Oncology Systems posted a 6% increase in revenues during the quarter with revenues split roughly 47% in North America and 53% outside North America.
For the full year oncology revenues rose 4% to $2.3 billion with a similar geographic split.
Service revenues rose 11% in the quarter and 9% for the year accounting for 40% of total oncology revenues.
Imaging Components posted fourth quarter revenue equal to the year ago period with 6% gains in flat panels offset by declines in the x-ray tube and security and inspection products.
For the year Imaging Components revenues increased 3% with 9% growth in panels partially offset by declines in tubes and security and inspection products.
And revenues in the other category increased by 30% to $22 million for the quarter.
Annual revenues were $45 million down 6% from the prior year.
Total company gross margin for the quarter was 41.9% down 79 basis points from the year ago quarter largely due to a higher mix of proton business.
For the full year total company gross margin was 42.7% up 22 basis points from the last year.
Oncology Systems fourth quarter gross margin was 42.6% down 36 basis points from the year ago period due largely to product and geographic mix.
For the full year Oncology Systems gross margin was 43.6% up 23 basis points from last fiscal year with favorable product mix.
Imaging Components gross margin for the quarter was 43.7% up 88 basis points from the year ago period due to higher panel volumes product cost reductions and improved cost of quality.
For the full year Imaging Components gross margin was 42.2% up 43 basis points from last year with a higher mix of panel shipments as well as productivity gains in tubes.
Fourth quarter SG&amp;A expenses were $122 million or 15% of revenues up more than 0.5 point from the year ago quarter due to our continued investments to expand our global infrastructure.
We also incurred higher sales and bonus incentives associated with the strong orders growth.
For the year SG&amp;A expenses rose 1.5 points to 16% of revenues with about 1 point of the increase due to the University of Pittsburg patent litigation settlement and the impairment of a portion of our investment in Augmenix.
First quarter R&amp;D expenses were $59 million or 7% of revenues even as a percentage of revenue with the year ago quarter.
For the full year R&amp;D expenses were $235 million or 8% of revenue up more 0.5 point as a percent of revenue as we continued to invest in our product roadmap.
Fourth quarter operating earnings totaled $159 million or nearly 20% of revenues down a little more than a point due to the lower gross margin and higher SG&amp;A spending.
For the full fiscal year the operating margin was 19% of revenues down 2 points from the previous year with 1 point due to the (indiscernible) and Augmenix charges.
The other 1 point decline in operating margin for the year was due to higher spending in R&amp;D and SG&amp;A to support global growth consistent with our year of investment strategy.
Depreciation and amortization totaled $18 million for the quarter and $64 million for the fiscal year.
The effective tax rate for the fiscal year was 29.7% which led to a 33.9% tax rate for the fourth quarter.
Fully diluted shares outstanding decreased from the year ago quarter to 103.5 million due largely to our ongoing share repurchase program.
Diluted EPS was $1.02 for the fourth quarter and $3.83 for the fiscal year including a $0.22 impact from the patent settlement and Augmenix impairments.
Turning to the balance sheet we ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $849 million debt of $438 million and stockholders equity of $1.6 billion.
DSO at 85 was equal to the year ago quarter and improved 10 days from the third quarter with strong collections and higher revenues.
Fourth quarter cash flow from operations was about $200 million significantly higher than net income due to working capital improvements.
Year-to-date cash flow from operations was about $456 million.
The primary use of cash was $210 million for the repurchase of 2.5 million shares of stock.
At the end of the quarter we had 6 million shares remaining under the existing repurchase authorization that extends through calendar year 2015.
Now I will turn it back over to Dow for the outlook.
Thanks Elisha.
Fiscal 2014 was the year of investments aimed to stimulate long-term top line growth for the company and we have made good progress.
We are focusing now on restoring our more normal operating expense levels to maintain margins and improve earnings growth.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2015 we expect to take a restructuring charge of an estimated $13 million or $0.09 per diluted share to realign and reduce our staff levels through programs including an enhanced retirement plan.
For fiscal year 2015 we expect revenues for our Oncology Systems and Imaging Components businesses as well as proton orders currently in backlog to grow in the range of 5% to 6%.
Included the $0.09 per diluted share restructuring charge earnings for the company should be in a range of $4.15 and $4.26 per diluted share.
Our guidance excludes contracted proton projects that are not yet financed or booked into backlog.
If these projects are booked during the year the potential upside in revenues and profits could be significant.
For the first quarter of fiscal year 2015 we expect combined revenues from our Oncology Systems and Imaging Components businesses as well as proton orders currently in backlog to grow by zero to 2%.
Earnings per diluted share for the total company including the expected $0.09 per diluted share restructuring charge should be in the range of $0.76 to $0.80.
We are now ready for your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Jeff Johnson from Robert Baird.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Good evening guys.
How are you? Yes.
So we are 20 minutes into the call and you guide ’15 – I don’t know $0.50 below the street and I haven’t really heard an explanation I guess I’m confused very confused where the 2015 EPS guidance and maybe a bridge to that Elisha if I look at the street at $4.74 granted maybe some of those included Maryland my number included Maryland pushed to 2015.
But even I give you $0.09 back on the restructuring and if I assume currency was a bit of a hit that may be we weren’t modeling correctly I still can’t get anywhere close and I guess the last thing I comment on there before I open it or give it back to you guys is I know you talked about R&amp;D finally being in 2015 at a point where you can get may be a little leverage offer or at least it doesn’t grow faster than revenue.
The revenue guidance looks okay if you take – if you make some adjustments around a couple of different factors so it’s all EPS and yet it’s not going to be R&amp;D it’s not going to be revenue I’m confused as to where the big miss is coming at the EPS line? Right.
So Jeff let me just start with Q4 and give you the loss from what we said last quarter to where we ended up this quarter and the guidance is to $1.14 to $1.29 with a $0.15 delta attributed to the Maryland Proton project as we talked about on the last call.
So if I start with the $1.02 that we are reporting Maryland would have added $0.17 to the quarter and that’s really because it’s more profitable than we have thought.
And I’ve learned to kind of hedge my best with Proton deals and so when it was going to stay in yes it was at the $0.15 level when it came out it was at the more profitable $0.17.
The tax rate we had about a $0.06 impact from the euro moving literally the last two days of the fiscal year when our balance sheets translate and we had a huge hedging gain in the U.S.
that was offset almost exactly by our subsidiary losses for a GAAP – for the P&amp;L the pre-tax profit but our hedging gains was taxable in the U.S.
because our subsidiary hold their books from a statutory tax accounting in local currency they did not have a loss with an offset in tax deduction.
So a highly unusual event in my 15 years in this job I do not recall having any impact anywhere close to that and it was just given a huge swing in the currency right at quarter – at year-end which has to be reflected in the Q4 tax rates.
And then $0.03 additional we missed out on tax benefit associated with Maryland where we have some NOLs in Germany that we could have taken credit for.
So that’s the guidance walk I guess that there’s (indiscernible) here it’s really Maryland with more than the $0.15 spread that we had put on the quarter it ended up being the $0.17 of profit plus the additional $0.03 that we didn’t get in the past.
Yes.
And Elisha I guess that I probably understand that and I think most of us are probably willing to say hey you guys would have been at the upper end if not the most the street numbers for the fourth quarter I’m talking 2015 guidance where EPS is coming in some $0.50 below the street and that’s where I’m so confused? Okay.
So let me kind of quickly walk you I won’t ask you to bear with me on the tax again because it has the same impact for the year and the quarter but if I start with our GAAP numbers.
But not 2014 I’m talking about your guidance for 2015 just to be clear.
Sorry Jeff sorry.
Okay.
So let me just walk you through the various elements of the P&amp;L from the guidance.
Revenue of 5% to 6% our oncology and ICB businesses together are in say to mid-single digits and then our proton business the core proton deals that are already in backlog should be somewhere between 60 million and 70 million which is up about 40% year-over-year.
I have to say I’m a little nervous around exchange rates right now we already know going into Q1 we are at a much different rate than we were in the year ago period.
So we are hedging our best a little bit on the euro exchange rate on that revenue number.
Gross margin should be 42% to 43% for the total company with oncology in their long-term range of 43% to 44% ICB in the low 40%ish and then a single-digit gross margin rate for the proton deals that are in backlog.
It’s going to put our EBIT margin at around 19% to 20% and that’s about even with fiscal year 2014 with more proton revenue.
Tax I’m putting a little broader range on it again to reflect the currency movement we saw at 28% to 30% which gets me to what I call non-GAAP EPS of $4.25 to $4.35 significant upside potential from the proton deals but they wanted to take the downside volatility out of the guidance and I want to thank you and several others who gave us that suggestion to think about.
And then we’ve got the $0.09 restructuring charge that gets you to the $4.16 to the $4.26.
Okay.
We are going to – we’ll just take this offline I guess because I’m still $0.30 off from your number even if I drop down that down at 20% EBIT margin and other stuff in your revenue guidance so.
Jeff you may be starting at the – you may be starting with the kind of a non-GAAP number for 2014 I don’t know I’m happy to walk you through it but that’s the detail.
And then PT could add if you just take Maryland its $0.17 plus the $0.03 and then Emory has about the same profitability.
So that may be where your delta is as we are including nothing in Maryland or Emory in our guidance.
Okay.
The lesson we learned here from 2014 Jeff is if it’s not financed on the proton side the timing is just too unpredictable.
Yes.
So based on the feedback we received from a number of you we have taken that out of our guidance it does represent significant upside for us but we’ve – obviously we are not proud of this fourth quarter and not being in the fourth quarter earnings had a huge impact on us.
We think Jeff customer continues to move it along and were confidence is going to happen but it has yet to happen the timing is so difficult to predict that we have just taken it entirely out of game.
Alright.
Well I have dominated the first few minutes here and I have a feeling there will be other questions on this.
So I’m just going to get back in queue and we will talk offline.
Thanks Elisha.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Amit Hazan from SunTrust.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks very much.
Hey good afternoon guys.
We are having a hard time hearing you Amit.
Can you hear me any better now? Yes.
Yes that’s better.
Thanks.
Okay.
Let me start just try to clarify around the 2015 guidance.
Number one just give us a sense of how much proton revenue there is may be theoretically or that could come in next year that’s not in your guidance? Okay.
So what is in my guidance is in the script is $60 million to $70 million.
And those are Russia Saudi Cincinnati all of the deals of that that we have booked into our backlog and we are starting to move forward on those deals.
What is not in there is the $70 million that was as of the end of the fiscal year.
Of course as we complete more on these projects it’s under the percentage of completion but clearly we could have up to as much as $140 million of additional proton revenue stemming from the three deals that we have signed but that has yet to get out the financing totally completed at this point.
Okay.
And then kind of may be getting back to what I was expected to see for next year.
It is really – talking about leverage I mean you have exclude I know your proton is going to grow a little bit but you excluded a lot of your proton stuff from 2015 guidance.
I think about your business your North American oncology orders grew faster in the last year.
And service is obviously growing very fast and that’s a high margin.
Why shouldn’t we see leverage next year you’re taking a hit for some of the one-time offsetting you’re planning to do in the first quarter.
Shouldn’t you be improving your operating margin in 2015 and why is that not happening? Well so the proton gross margin is going to be lower.
So if all of that proton revenue materializes it does have a downward impact on the gross margin for the total company.
It absolutely gets us a great deal of leverage in the R&amp;D in the SG&amp;A spending.
So if I look at FY 2015 there’s also a restructuring charge and I want to make sure that we have talked about that being in the first quarter.
It’s really the gross margin for the total company down a little bit oncology should be right in the range that we’ve talked about ICB will be in the low 40s but you have a proton business at a significantly lower gross margins with higher sales year-over-year.
Yes I think the other thing I would add here is we are very gratified by the orders volume we saw in Q4 that was great.
The first three quarters were lighter and so we have kind of got that flowing through the first half of the year we have got some tough foreign exchange that we are looking at as they comes out of backlog and into sales.
And then the other thing that we have got in the oncology business in 2015 is we will be taking our first Brazil units to the P&amp;L which has I think oncology is going to be fine overall but kind of the better mix of the U.S.
orders and software orders overall can be offset a little bit by the Brazil pressure we have that we deliver at the units down in Brazil.
If you do – if you take out the restructuring charge the EBIT margin is right at about 20% in FY 2015.
Right.
But is that actually I mean are you actually showing leverage in 2015 if you take out proton? I’ve not run it but yes I will run that very quickly for you Amit but I think it would be – we would get some leverage.
I have to back-off the proton revenue back-off the gross margin I haven’t done that math right here in front of me but we are growing R&amp;D and SG&amp;A slower than the top line next year for PT.
Okay.
Let me get back to the top line for a second as I understand what you’re excluding and that totally make sense but 5% to 6% top line growth if I look at your backlog ending your fiscal year right you’ve got oncology up 7% in backlog Imaging Components up a lot more service obviously not in there but growing faster.
It sounds like your order trends are pretty good and may be you can comment on how you’re thinking about that going forward on the order side.
But why the 5% to 6% guidance if everything that I’m looking at in backlog is looking stronger than that? Yes.
Well a lot of our growth in backlog came right at the end of the fiscal year and so we need to make sure that all of that is going to deliver in FY 2015.
Additionally I’m looking at exchange rates today that are vastly different than where we were in the year ago period.
And to be conservative we are using today’s rate that could either work for us or it could work against us.
But the dollar is pretty strong right now and that’s what we are using as we are penciling out FY 2015.
Okay.
So I mean may be I will make my final question.
What would be your constant currency guidance for top line growth for 2015? I’m not going to guide to that I mean it’s at the $1.26 to $1.27 level so you can make assumptions on the yen the Canadian and the euro and try and back into a number but obviously it would be higher because the currencies have moved significantly against us.
Okay.
I will jump back in queue.
Probably at a point or so.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Tycho W.
Peterson from JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey first one on margins specifically on oncology margins you noted some (indiscernible) there I know your guidance for next year is 43% to 44% for oncology but as we think about more the business coming internationally why isn’t the risk of further erosion within the oncology margins? It’s driven by the increase in service which is in growing in double digits which is in the low to mid-50% margin range.
And we think we are going to get a resumption of software revenue moving into this year just given the very strong orders growth in software products that we had.
So – and you’re absolutely right with much of that could offset by the move to outside of North America.
So net-net if I look at oncology on the year they came right in the middle of that 43% to 44% range up 23 basis point and our goal is that we can continue for next year to keep oncology in that 43% to 44% range.
Okay.
And then on proton you saw the Indiana facility that gets shutdown obviously that wasn’t yours but maybe just talk about whether people are reevaluating the value proposition here and the returns on proton investment and is there a kind of a change in the landscape there? No.
I think there’s a number of issues around proton.
Clearly one of the things driving proton is the inherent physics the advantages of the Bragg Peak and the ability really to reduce dose to healthy tissue.
One of the things that we identified when we acquired ACCEL seven years ago was their technology for doing intensity modulated proton therapy was the best out there.
And I think in large measure some of these older proton therapy systems do not have advanced capability for doing IMPT.
And the analogy holds in radiation therapy if you don’t have IMRT capability today you are no where.
And so I think it was as much a technology reason as anything else.
The Indiana I haven’t talked to them personally but it was one of the first proton centers in the U.S.
It was older technology generations behind it’s in a tough location it’s an hour outside Indianapolis plus outside Indianapolis not in a big location.
It has a small catchment area.
It did good work primarily research and if you had saw the report it was very costly for them to modernize in that location.
So we feel very good about the partners that we are dealing with.
Clearly the cost of protons is expensive and we have to work on that together to bring it down but the clinical advantages of proton looks very very positive.
Okay.
And the last one on reimbursement I mean you are obviously waiting for final reimbursement here with the assumption that bundling goes through it that most people expect what are you hearing from customers and was there some pent up demand potentially once the reimbursement gets put in place how do you think about maybe the pacing of orders the next couple of quarters post the final reimbursement coming out? Now let me say this from the outset.
For getting reimbursement for a second we are just looking at the North America market.
North America market was up 11% in the fourth quarter that’s the best quarter we have had in North America in over two years so we really like that.
The market continues to be hospital market only.
We see very little participation from the free-standing centers that’s 90% plus of our market right now.
I think what we are seeing in the proposal is that payments for the hospital market are going to remain okay.
So we expect them to be up 1% to 2%.
We like the fact that the bundled payment for single fraction SRS favors Varian Linux it’s the same for any SRS SBRT treatment and there is no price advantage to any competitor in the marketplace.
In the proposal the freestanding rates are going to get haircut again as proposed.
The rationale behind that is CMS wants to move the vault from a direct to an indirect expense and exclude it from the cost calculation that gets to reimbursement.
We have had a major effort with our customer partners with Congress to oppose those cuts.
We won’t know if those cuts get modified until November.
We did have a huge chunk of the Senate and the House signed the letter.
So I think we have made what argument we can.
But at this point I would say in the proposal the freestanding centers are looking at another 5% plus cut.
And is it going to impact us at this point is less than 10% of our market.
We had a good fourth quarter and I would our funnel looks pretty good.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of David Roman from Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you for taking the questions.
And I wanted maybe just to start with a little bit follow-up to the commentary you just made regarding the U.S.
market and maybe sort of a little bit broader context.
And I think you obviously have faced some headwinds whether it was reimbursement related or freeze in hospital CapEx spending but as we look across the early data points you have gotten out of this quarter the environment does seem better whether there was comments from some industrial players or out of the hospitals themselves can you maybe just sort of talk about what the nature of the conversations you are having with customers today are you sensing any unfreezing of environment relative to call it 12 or 24 months ago? I would say some of the trends that we have talked about before remains.
We are seeing the strongest stronger and the good news is that they doubling down and investing.
This last quarter we had multi-system wins at a number of places they are betting on technology they really see the future of SRS and SBRT and are making that bet.
There is a lot of investment in software for oncology information systems.
We think we have got a very good position there.
Being clinically rich is very important.
And that’s an advantage we have coming from our space versus some of the enterprise players.
So I would say conversations with our hospital system partners remain very robust.
They are looking at technology as a means of differentiation.
They are looking at consolidation in their local regional markets and the purchases I mean the kind of downside of that is purchases are bigger and take a little longer but I think we have done very well.
On the freestanding side this is very very flat.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then maybe on the imaging business that has been a very strong contributor to your overall top line growth over the past couple of years can you maybe just give us some perspective on where you think we are in the sort of digital conversion and when – are we operating at a above normal long-term trend line right now or is that a business that it can continue to sustain the growth that it has over the past several periods? I mean there is a number of segments kind of sub-segments in here.
The flat panel business is really what’s driving the digitization.
We are up 13% on the year.
We had a tough comp in Q4 but flat panel business is continuing to rock as we see that as very strong.
Tube business is it participates in the digitization but it also participates in the analog world.
It’s a little bit more of the replacement business.
You are down slightly on the year.
So I think that’s kind of following the broader trend in radiology.
In the fourth quarter we had a huge order in our security and inspection business $40 million that’s going to make next year in this business tough to explain all year kind of those lumps come and go but I think as a continued trend we will see if flat panel business continue to grow very strongly and tubes would be a little bit of flattish to slightly up scenario and then security will come and go with big customer purchases.
Okay.
And then maybe just the last question on cash and I know you have been very explicit about share repurchases being pretty consistently a priority but as you kind of look at what’s going on over the past couple of years a deceleration in the overall top line growth compression in your operating margin and some might argue a peaking in your return on capital metrics in the context of a large cash balance and why not look to get more aggressive on either the M&amp;A front or other external investments that could restore the growth rate or give you some more flexibility from a diversification standpoint? It’s a good question David and we are looking very hard at it.
We have done a couple acquisitions this year that we are very excited about.
They are pretty small frankly.
We acquired Transpire and Velocity.
They both help out our software business in oncology.
We think that’s a big opportunity that’s the space we continue to look at.
They were small acquisitions but they are already contributing and the funnels.
Transpire is a little more on margin rate side was intellectual property that we acquired there and then Velocity we had a terrific ASTRO with velocity.
We have got a robust funnel of activity there.
And – so I think we got some good execution on these two most recent acquisitions.
We did the Calypso acquisition three years ago and I’d say that’s been slow but now with SBRT starting to take off we are seeing some nice growth kind of on the horizon of Calypso.
More broadly I would say from a 30 000 foot level oncology software is one focused area for us and the other is strengthening our components business.
We got a great business model a great team in the components business and that will be another place that we look to enhance our portfolio.
Got it.
Okay thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Beuchaw from Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good afternoon and thanks for taking the questions.
Just two quick ones on the model actually Dow I wonder if you could give us a sense for how big ASTRO was in the quarter as a driver of orders? I know in past years where ASTRO was moved from one quarter to the next or? Steve I think if anything ASTRO in our fourth quarter is a drag.
So I mean I take my whole sales team and I park them in a convention center the least productive phase in the world.
And so I think it’s an indication of the momentum that’s out there.
So could we see North American order momentum here into fiscal ‘15 remain close to this level? All I can tell you is my funnel looks good.
Okay.
And then just circling back on proton I appreciate the conservatism with the approach from proton for the fiscal ‘15 guidance and the specifics Elisha on what the contribution could be to the top line? Could you give us a sense for how much proton could contribute for fiscal ‘15 on the bottom line if everything goes toward a best case scenario? Well and again it depends on how much of the project is completed that if I simply take Maryland which we just said were $0.17 at the pre-tax margin line and $0.03 in the tax and you double it for Emory which is roughly the equivalent project.
You can see that it could be significant it’s the timing and that is what is impossible for us to predict but I don’t think there is a chance that both Maryland and Emory would be totally complete within this fiscal year.
Chances are Maryland could bring in maybe $0.20 and Emory could bring in perhaps half that and in this fiscal year and then the balance would be in a future fiscal year.
And that would incremental to the guidance? Yes.
Great perfect.
Thanks so much guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Vijay Kumar from ISI Group.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
So maybe just to add on to that prior question on the guidance on proton right and I think I am looking at your sort of prepared remarks the guidance excludes the contracted proton projects that are not yet financed or booked into the backlog.
I guess just to give us a sense I understand Maryland and Emory being $0.20 and $0.05 thanks for the color.
Were there any other projects I mean if you have done the normal way that you would have guided right were there any other sort of proton projects that were contracted but not yet financed and now that is being excluded? We mentioned on the call there is a project of course in Maryland a project in Atlanta and a project in Dallas.
Those are the three projects where we have been contacted but the deals aren’t yet financed.
We have not booked them into our backlog until they are financed.
I guess Dow I was asking on the EPS impact rate or there is a relative size? Yes.
And none of those are in our EPS guidance.
I know they are not in the EPS guidance but if I guess any magnitude and what the magnitude is or what’s been put out on the guidance? Yes.
Well as I just mentioned I mean if you assume Maryland at the $0.17 pre-tax $0.03 of tax impact.
Emory I don’t believe will get as far this year.
On completing that project we are moving forward but it’s again that project is just behind Maryland.
And it could add maybe half that much.
So that’s at the outset.
Yes.
And I just want to underscore the big if here.
We burned down this last year.
So we have taken it out of our guidance.
We are confident our customer will get it done but the timing is just impossible to predict.
So we are getting out of the timing business.
Got it.
Fair enough.
And I guess maybe one bigger picture question on the environment of what you are seeing you had some pretty good growth in the U.S.
including double-digit growth what’s driving the growth out there? Is this new products and what’s been the temporary response? And I guess as a corollary to that when you look at the medium term outlook how should we think about gross margins for oncology right with specifically given that at some point service growth how long can that continue and offset the emerging markets sort of which is below the corporate margin levels? Let me talk to the U.S.
market thing here first.
The – I think what’s driving the U.S.
market is new technology.
People really want to take advantage of the new capabilities that the team is developing especially for lung cancer and liver cancer.
People want – hypo-fractionation continues to be a big trend.
And as our customers go from a little bit of hypo-fractionation to a lot of hypo-fractionation they need dedicated platforms to do it.
And so I think hypo-fractionation is a big piece in the U.S.
that’s driving the growth.
And our position with TrueBeam and Edge is terrific.
The other thing is our – if you were at ASTRO I thought our software line up was just (gangbusters).
And we got game in software.
And I think that we had very good – when you look at the U.S.
orders coming out of the fourth quarter that’s very very positive for us.
So that was good.
I will go to your third question and turn it over to Elisha for some of the margin rate stuff.
But the – for the service business how long can it continue.
We just had our best unit year ever.
Our units were up about 12% year-over-year orders wise.
So we continue to see good install base expansion outside of the U.S.
U.S.
is a replacement market OUS is not we think there is another 10 000 machines that are needed outside of the U.S.
So I think that we have got a double digit scenario.
We are struggling a little bit with FX as we look at – as we look at our service business for 2015.
But as we look at service long-term I think it remains a double digit scenario for a long period and I will let Elisha comment on some of the international mix on margin rates.
Sure.
So again for FY ’15 we are assuming that oncology is going to be again in the 43% to 44% margin range.
The growth in service which is at a significantly higher margin than the equipment and the growth in software we think is going to offset the move to outside of North America.
And we expect we are going to begin shipping on our Brazil tender this fiscal year and that is at extremely lower gross margin rate as we talked about for a while.
So that will be in there as well but we have continued to think long-term that 43% to 44% range will hold.
I will say Q1 just based on where we see the backlog and where we see shipment deliveries and it’s probably closer to 43% level in Q1 and then as more software and service through the balance of the year we will see it start to pick up from there.
Thanks guys.
I will step back in the queue.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Wittes from Brean Capital.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
Hi Jason.
Hi guys.
Elisha I just want to follow-up there has been a lot of questions about proton it’s obviously the big distinguishing factor this year from what you said thus far it sounds like potentially Maryland didn’t end Atlanta potentially hit this year and then you are going to have to look at the percent of complete to see how much of it actually would hit the P&amp;L and I think you said that’s about assuming best case scenario about $0.30 it sounds to me like Dallas is too far is not yet – is not for long answer really have much of an impact whether or not you can close the financing is that the right way to think about it? I think that’s fair and just to be clear it’s our customers who is getting the financing.
They are making good progress.
They are working with a very large institution I mean we had no reason to believe that this won’t get done.
In fact we are committed to stepping in as a minority lender in this facility but until it’s done it’s just not done and I am black and blue from this proton deal all year along and we are taking the downside volatility out of this.
You are assuming black and blue from Maryland I don’t know are the other – the Dallas and Emory facility is also sort of somewhat unpredictable from the same line…? They have yet to be financed.
They are not quite so black and blue but… Got it.
Maryland has been significant throughout this fiscal year and we are just now getting to the point where it can be significant in FY ’15.
Okay.
Thank you.
So then the other… Just to underscore Jason I mean again there is if on this and we are just taking ourselves out of the timing business on these.
Fair enough.
There was 100% confidence they would be in our guidance.
Got it.
The other question is just to understand kind of how we should look at oncology obviously you have got some pretty high expectations for software this year.
I mean that’s been growing at a very nice cliff should we anticipate an acceleration and if I think about your oncology growth overall should we assume that product sales kind of remain in the low-single digits and we see some acceleration in service which is already kind of been in that sort of low to mid-teen range? Well maybe one way to look at this let me take a stab at this oncology if I just look at where we ended the year on backlog it was up about 7%.
Now again we think there is some FX risk in that but that just gives you a flavor because that obviously – that is only equipment and software it does not include our service business which is growing a little faster.
So we are early in the year much of this growth in backlog came in the Q3 and most of it in Q4 we need to make sure if it’s going to deliver this fiscal year or next fiscal year we’re being conservative on the FX rate to the extent we can.
But you are right I mean with backlog being up 7% if things were to start to moving in our favor there could be potentially a little upside there.
It’s just too early to call at this point in the Year.
Just to put a final point the software contract can deliver quicker than data product contracts from my understanding in other words….
A lot of times they are.
A lot of times they are green.
Okay.
And then just on x-ray and components.
I suppose that this has been somewhat a rough year what kind of expectations that we have for 2015 for that business? I mean I think the it’s been a double-digit business in panel I think we will continue to see that.
I think on the year we’re probably looking at strong single-digit performance in the x-ray business.
Okay great thanks.
That’s all I have.
We are going to have a little bit of this lumpiness because of the big security order that we took in the fourth quarter this past year but the core business is going to do fine.
And they sell mostly in dollars for what it’s worth.
Yes yes.
Understood.
Thanks a lot.
I’ll jump back in queue.
Our last question comes from the line of Raj Denhoy from Jefferies.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thanks.
Good afternoon good evening.
Hi Raj.
I am wondering if I could just ask a little on the first quarter guidance 0% to 2% I think you’re guiding to 5% to 6% per year so I’m sure up swing as you move through the year but why so low in the first quarter the 0% to 2%? Yes.
So well if I look back again if I look back at where oncology was in the year ago Q1 and we have on average delivery about a year later it was fairly low growth at that point with the backlog up in very low-single digits.
So we expect that this is going to build as we go throughout the year.
So I think both oncology and our imaging components businesses will be in the low single digits some impact from FX when we look at the significant shift quarter-over-quarter and that’s really where – that’s really where that’s coming from.
And then our proton therapy business will be down it looks like in Q1 assuming no it doesn’t happen in the core projects just given the timing it will be down from the year ago period.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then just it’s my proton questions as well.
This decision can move from not looking at – not considering projects for inclusion in your forecast unless they have financing.
Is that any bearing on whether something actually goes into backlog or not or have you changed your criteria and how you assess your backlog at this point? No so none of our criteria on how things get into backlog have changed and again we’ve got signed contracts we have delivered the cyclotron I mean that we have got a lot of things that are going on but we will not book it into backlog until the financing contingency is listed.
So the only change here is how we select the fields and guidance just given the timing of when they are going to recur.
Okay.
So that’s the – if they can have a contingency around financing to go into backlog but the financing does not necessarily have to be secured? It doesn’t have to be 100% complete but it has to be sufficiently completed to where we are comfortable that we can take the revenue.
Okay.
And then just lastly on proton I think it seems like you’ve booked anything really in proton in the quarter and I guess I’m curious about your views on this because you now have a single room center and given the extreme cost of these systems have you seen much of a change in perception in the marketplace of where your customers are looking now in terms proton? I think the good news is the funnel is robust and at this point we have a good funnel in both kind of smaller proton center market as well as bigger multi-room market and we have got capabilities in both segments.
Last year we booked three orders we booked Cincinnati Taiwan and Paul Scherrer Institute.
So we feel very good about getting those orders booked last year and the funnel looks pretty good for us.
Putting on a nice backlog in the proton business.
Okay thank you.
There are no further questions.
I would like to hand the call back over to management for closing comments.
Thanks very much.
Thank you all for participating.
A replay of this call can be heard on the Varian investor website where it will be archived for a year.
To hear a telephone replay you can dial 1877-660-6853 from inside the U.S.
or 201-612-7415 from outside the U.S.
and the confirmation code for that is 13591876.
The telephone replay will be available through the end of the day this Friday October 24.
Thanks very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Varian Medical Systems’ First Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Spencer Sias Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications for Varian Medical Systems.
Thank you Mr.
Sias.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and welcome to Varian Medical Systems conference call for the first quarter of fiscal year 2015.
With me are Dow Wilson President and CEO; Elisha Finney CFO; and Clarence Verhoef our Corporate Controller.
Dow and Elisha will summarize our results and we will take your questions following the presentation.
To simplify our discussion unless otherwise stated all references to the quarter or year are fiscal quarters and fiscal years quarterly comparisons are for the first quarter of fiscal year 2015 versus the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014 represents to financial results for orders are to gross orders unless otherwise indicated.
Please be advised that this presentation and discussion contains forward-looking statements.
Our use of words and phrases such as outlook believe expect anticipate could will and similar expressions are intended to identify those statements which represents our current judgments on future performance or other future matters.
While we believe them to be reasonable based on information currently available to us these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of the important risks relating to our business are described in our first quarter earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements in this presentation and discussion because of new information future events or otherwise.
And now here is Dow.
Good afternoon and welcome.
We are reporting solid results for the first quarter of 2015 with healthy revenue orders and earnings growth.
In summary we are reporting net earnings of $0.92 per diluted share including $0.07 restructuring charge.
Revenues of $738 million up 4% or up 6% on a constant currency basis expected oncology service revenues of $254 million and 81 basis points improvement in the company’s gross margin of 44.3% of sales strong orders in our major businesses and 13% increase in our quarter ending backlog to $3.1 billion.
Oncology Systems order totaled $562 million for the quarter up 5% or up 8% on a constant currency basis on a trailing 12 months basis worldwide reported Oncology orders grew by 5%.
Consistent with recent geographic re-organization of the oncology systems business will consolidate the rest of world region into three geographic regions.
The Americas APAC and EMEA for comparison purposes the earnings release contains a table providing quarterly results for these regions for 2013 and 2014.
In the first quarter of 2015 oncology orders grows 17% in APAC and 12% in EMEA while declining by 2% in the Americas.
In North America orders sell by 3% versus strong 13% growth in the year ago quarter.
Robust APAC order performance is driven mainly by China where orders grew by 42% with the help of a tender win with the CLA.
Market in China appears to be returning to more typical investment levels on the period of delays and uncertainty.
During the quarter the SSDA ran an approval for Varian to supply our Edge radiosurgery systems to customer in China.
This opens the door for Varian leading technology to address the growing lung cancer burden there.
Looking as whole as BRICA of countries of Brazil Russia India China and Africa we achieve first quarter order growth of 30%.
BRICA again accounted for more than 15% of total oncology orders in the quarter.
A strong performance in Africa where we booked more than $20 million in orders from project in Algeria Egypt and South Africa helped our EMEA geographic region achieve orders growth of 12% or 18% on a constant currency basis.
Elsewhere in EMEA we saw strong orders performance in France Turkey and Hungry.
Turning to Latin America ongoing demand from the private market in Brazil was low as purchases in Columbia helped to drive order growth in the region.
As I mentioned at the outset orders in North America decline slightly versus very strong first quarter performance last year with a consolidation in this market we’ve seen great quarter to quarter variability.
On a longer term trailing 12 months basis North America oncology orders grew 4%.
At this point the sales funnel looks good.
Orders in our oncology service business were robust rising by 14% to $254 million representing 45% of the total oncology systems business during the quarter.
This puts us on course to exceed our goal of reaching $1 billion of service revenue this year.
We also made great progress in our software business during the quarter with double-digit growth in treatment planning and oncology information system.
We hit a big clinical milestone during the quarter when rapid plan was used for the first time to planning advance volume our key treatment for 76 year old prostate cancer patient in the UK.
Rapid plan makes it easier and faster for clinicians to generate higher quality treatment plan.
We’re taking orders for more than 100 rapid plan installations to date.
During the quarter we’re pleased to see a promising new lung study showing improved survival rate using stereotactic body radiation therapy or SBRT in combination with the chemotherapy agent called erlotinib.
The study by senior author Dr.
Robert Timmerman of UT Southwestern Medical Center in Texas which was partially funded by Varian hit an overall survival times extending from historic six to nine months to 20 months.
Result of this Phase II clinical trial involving 24 patients with stage 4 non-small cell lung cancer were published in the journal of clinical oncology of the American society of clinical oncology.
Turning to our imaging component segment orders rose by a robust 34% to $163 million versus the very week year ago period when orders declined.
We saw specially strong growth in our panel business where orders rose by 65%.
Among the highlights in our panel business was a big multi-million dollar win with the customer in Korea.
We also started commercial shipments of our new customized veterinary and imaging package that includes both panels and workstations.
You can see in our 2014 annual report these wireless panels are being used in the sound echo and portable systems to image thoroughbred horses.
At quarter end we announced our intention to make an approximate 32 million euro public tender offer to acquire all the shares of MeVis Medical Solutions in Germany.
The tender was formally launched yesterday MeVis develops and supply image analysis software due to screen breast lung liver prostate and colon cancer.
We’re about to complete the tender process early in our third quarter this will be an important step in our strategy to expand the imaging component to software portfolio.
The company’s other category comprised of the Varian particle therapy business and the Ginzton technology center recorded orders of $1 million the sales funnel continues to look good and we submitted five new proton tenders during the quarter.
We made progress on our active proton projects generating $9 million of revenue our customers financing of the Maryland proton project was not sufficiently completed to enable us to book it during the quarter.
Before I hand it over to Elisha I’m pleased to report that as the world economic forum in Davos last week Varian was included in the global 100 ranking of the world’s most sustainable companies.
Varian is a top ranked healthcare equipment company included on the list we’re proud to be recognized for our commitment and sustainability.
Now I’ll turn it over Elisha.
Thanks Dow and hello everyone.
While Dow has already covered growth orders I want to talk further about the constant currency growth rate for the quarter.
In comparing quarter-over-quarter exchange rates of euro and the yen weakened significantly against the dollar which reduced our total company order growth rate by about two points.
Total oncology orders for the quarter increased 5% in dollars and 8% in constant currency.
Oncology’s EMEA orders include 12% in dollars and 18% in constant currency.
Oncology APAC orders increased 17% in dollars and 23% in constant currency primarily due to the yen.
There was no currency impact in the Americas.
The company ended the quarter with a $3.1 billion backlog up 13%.
Backlog adjustments during the quarter totaled to $34 million bringing net orders for the company to $692 million.
First quarter revenues for the total company increased 4% in dollars and 6% in constant currency.
Oncology posted a 4% gain in revenues during the quarter with significant shift for North America and services.
North America constituted 52% of total oncology revenues versus 42% in the year ago quarter.
Service revenues grew by 14% over the year ago quarter.
Imaging component posted first quarter revenue growth of 3% with growth in panels and security and inspection products partially offset by declines into.
The total company gross margin for the quarter was 44.3% up 81 basis points oncology systems gross margin improved by 68 basis points to 45.6% due to favorable geographic and product mix.
While we’re pleased with the margin performance in the quarter we continue to believe that oncology can sustain long term gross margins in the 43% to 44% range.
Imaging component gross margin for the quarter rose 85 basis points to 42.2% due to a higher mix of panels as well improved quality cost.
First quarter SG&amp;A expenses were 140 million including an $11 million restructuring charge to reduce headcount.
This charge increased SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenues by a 140 basis points in this quarter.
SG&amp;A was also impacted by a $5 million increase in our bad debt reserve in the quarter to reflect uncertainty and our ability to exchange our Venezuelan bolivar collections into dollars.
First quarter R&amp;D expenses were $57 million or 8% of revenues equal to the year ago quarter as a percentage of revenue.
Moving down the income statement first quarter operating earnings totaled $130 million down from the year ago quarter due in large parts to the restructuring charge.
Depreciation and amortization totaled $17 million for the quarter.
The effective tax rate was 28.5% down almost three points from the year ago quarter due largely to the R&amp;D tax credit extension granted in late December.
We continue to expect that the tax rate will be 28% to 30% for the fiscal year.
Fully diluted shares outstanding decreased almost 6 million from the year ago quarter to $101.6 million due to our ongoing share repurchase program.
Diluted EPS was $0.92 for the quarter including the $0.07 restructuring charge.
Turning to the balance sheet we ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of 904 million debt of 525 million and stockholders’ equity of 1.6 billion.
DSO at 85 improved by nine days from the year ago quarter.
First quarter cash flow from operations increased significantly from the year ago quarter to $79 million or 85% of net income.
Primary usage of cash was $22 million for CapEx and a $126 million towards the repurchase of 1.5 million shares of stock.
AT the end of quarter we had 4.75 million shares remaining under the existing repurchase authorization at expensive calendar year 2015.
Now I’ll turn it back to Dow for the outlook.
Thanks Elisha.
The company got up to a good start in the first quarter of fiscal 2015 with revenues and earnings coming in ahead of expectations.
Our outlook for the full fiscal year is heavily impacted by the recent dramatic swing in currency exchange rate which we believe will significantly reduce revenues and earnings in the balance of the year.
We now believe the total company revenue for fiscal year 2015 will increase about 5%.
Given our earnings momentum in the first quarter we believe that we can maintain our prior guidance of $4.16 to $4.26 per diluted share for the fiscal year despite significant currency headwinds.
Given current exchange rate and the expected timing of shipments in the year we believe total company revenues for the second quarter should increase by about 2% versus the year ago period.
Net earnings per diluted share for the second quarter could be in the range of $0.98 or $1.02.
Our guidance excludes contracted proton projects that are not yet financed or booked into backlog.
If these projects are booked during the year the potential upside in revenues and profits could be significant.
We’re now ready for your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Amit Hazan from SunTrust.
Okay.
Just a couple of questions I wanted to start with the guidance if I think about adjusted EPS guidance 5% to 7% excluding the one-time of course that implies essentially negative leverage I think year-over-year giving your share buyback and if I think about how you describe last year is an investment year why should we see that within the model this year.
So Amit when you go through the guidance we’ll be at about sort of full fiscal year 19% operating margin including the $11 million restructuring charge.
Once you exclude that we should get closer to about even where we were with the year ago period understanding that our revenue is coming down significantly due to FX and we don’t get the full offset.
So that has something to do with it as well.
But excluding the effects of FX and the restructuring charge we would get leverage in the P&amp;L this year.
Okay.
And maybe let move to currency with sales guidance going essentially from the 5% to 6% growth last quarter now you have 5% little bit hard to tell what exactly the currency impacted versus a very nice outperformance is that would have taken guidance higher can you walk us through the dollar or the growth impact to expect from FX -- expected last quarter when you gave guidance what that dollar or growth impact is now on a top line and can you then just to remind us how that goes through your P&amp;L? Absolutely so let me give you the walk from the prior guidance to the new guidance and let me preface by saying to simplify it out at start of the midpoint and the year ago guidance and take it to the midpoint in the quarter ago guidance and take you the midpoint today.
Just the 50 000 foot level we’ve really had a double whammy a recently win the Yen and Euro where we have significant revenue in both of those currencies and we can buy 8% to 10%.
Added to that this Swiss franc strengthened by about 20% and we don’t have much revenue in franc but we have a significant amount of expenses in Swiss franc.
So when you put all together we start to support 21 which is the midpoint of the prior guidance and you assume we beat the midpoint by $0.14 in Q1 and then we have a negative $0.20 impact EPS for the balance of the year due to FX and come back and talk a little bit more about that.
That gives you the 4.15 and then we believe as we lookout as the momentum that we had in quarter and the gross margin and the geographic mix and product mix along with the some cost controlled initiatives that we will be able to get an additional $0.06 or so for the balance of the year and that gets you back to the $4.21.
So let me just say in a minute on how we get to the $0.20 impact from FX the revenue for Q2 for Q4 we’re estimating just based on what we’re expecting shipments to be and where current exchange rates are to be down about $50 million.
And we’re roughly 50% naturally hedged so we have a $25 million net impact from that loss of revenue and then on top of that our Swiss cost we’re expecting are going to go up between $5 million to $7 million based on the stronger franc and when you tax effect that it gets you at a midpoint of $0.20 for the balance of the year.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jeff Johnson from Robert Baird.
Dow maybe want start on the U.S.
hospital FX environment I obviously understand that you have the tough comp in American oncology orders this quarter and frankly I think you guys probably in the fiscal first quarter never pushing quick as hard as they’re in the fiscal fourth quarter just on a yearend number standpoint.
The number this quarter not overly surprising but maybe you talk about underlying trends that you’re seeing in the U.S.
it sure sounds like from a lot of companies we’re talking the U.S.
CapEx environment is getting better or do you feel that is true in some of the discussions you’re having? I mean first at the back North America orders were down 3% versus 13% growth a year ago quarter.
They had a drift trailing 12 months is 4% growth.
I not only believe too much less than 12 months orders trends that’s when what we keep our eye on around here but even when you short out six month it’s north of the 4%.
So I think we’re seeing a small move in the market that’s good.
We still believe that North America is a low to mid-single digit market and our sales are going to look pretty good.
We’ve seen the same capital improved rate with everybody else.
I think you know the surveys are usually ahead of where people actually send the money but I would say our performance looks good.
All right that’s helpful and then at least maybe a question on SG&amp;A even a high adjust for the restructuring charge just for the $5 million above our right off adjustment that you made SG&amp;A still up in your 17% of revenue and historically we haven’t seen a 17% SG&amp;A number until going back to 2007 or so and typically in the first quarter you’re close to 15 15.5 so what else is driving maybe that SG&amp;A higher in the quarter? Yes what really sets us because we had our reduction in headcount a bit at the end of the quarter it will start to turnaround and should approximate closer to 15% as we go forward on Q2 through Q4.
So here we just see effects of the investments that we made last year on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
You’ve mentioned the riff and the retirement plan as well as Venezuela.
We will normalize going forward closer to 15% of revenue.
All right that’s great and then just my last question we’ll follow up on the detail maybe off line later tonight.
But it sounds like the incremental FX headwind is around $0.20 and that’s incremental since you last updated or not and we can talk about that offline but if you’re absorbing that in guidance it seems like fundamentally the year is obviously coming in stronger already one quarter end you fundamentally feel better about the year so when I first saw the stronger margins in the first quarter you talk about the positive revenue mix it sounds like maybe that was just pulling into first quarter and out of the second quarter specially then second quarter guidance being little lighter than most model.
But obviously fundamentally you must be feeling better and I am just trying to figure out fundamentally is it the strong growth you see in imaging as is it the software and services side of oncology just where fundamentally you’re feeling better maybe today than you were there months when you first gave guidance? So Jeff you’re absolutely correct it’s about the impact from the last guidance to today’s guidance and is really helpful of course that we got the 14% lead in Q1 so largely it make up for that.
First we do think just given the geographic mix and the margin performance and the service growth and these cost control initiatives that we took late in the calendar year that we will have a little bit more that we added to guidance for the balance of the year.
If I could you mentioned the Q2 guidance let me just do a very quick one because at first it looks like it is very low relative to the year-ago period.
And some of this is just timing about let’s see the tax is going up about three points versus a year-ago quarter this is just the timing of the geographic mix of profits in the year that negatively impacted Q2 EPS by about $0.05 and then the FX impacts for Q2 is about $0.06.
So if you were to strip out those events we would have high single-digit growth quarter-over-quarter for Q2.
Our next question comes from David Roman from Goldman Sachs.
Good afternoon thank you for taking the question.
Elisha I just had a quick clarification on the guidance.
I know that you are much more purist when it comes to reporting your numbers and don’t have the adjustments that lot of your peers do.
So is the 416 to 426 guidance on a basis you did $0.92 in Q1 and $0.99 in Q1? On a GAAP basis which we report $0.92 if you were to exclude that restructure target it will be $0.99.
So my 416 to 426 is GAAP that does include the $0.07 charge.
Okay got it thank you.
And then just on the emerging market side Dow in your prepared remarks as you discussed China I think you made a reference to the market coming back to more normalized levels of demand and I know you had a nice tender win there but maybe could you just talk about the underlying operating dynamics in China specifically and maybe in the emerging markets more broadly.
I think you are one of the first companies that reported as part of fairly strong numbers in those regions.
So maybe just help us walk through what are the key underlying drivers there? I think across the emerging market first of all from high-level a 15% oncology orders.
We believe that we will continue to see double-digit growth in the emerging markets and quickly doing this claim China as we talked about last year that we are purchasing aberrations.
So not a lot of volume coming from government they retooled the purchasing processes.
We are seeing those trading out which I think the good news is that means they are little pent-up demand there.
So I think we will see that come.
The Africa continues to be kind of a surprise for us I would say three years or four years ago it was really low number and we have a terrific year last year and we started out this year very good in Africa as well.
Maybe one other things that just going back to China one of the thing that we are seeing besides the kind of government trends is we are seeing the emergence of a private market in China and I think that’s something that other diagnostic imaging is going to around for long-time leases historically we have seen a little bit of that but not a lot.
I think we are starting to see a little bit more of the private market emerge in China.
Latin America the first quarter was okay better in terms of growth but we still had a good growth in the first quarter we grew 5% in the first quarter in Latin America that I think will keep growing there.
We feel there is a lot of volatility and uncertainty with exchange rates and what’s going on how does that impact Latin America but we haven’t seen that yet in those markets.
The one market that’s quite is Russia that’s we have not seen much there at all.
India I would say on the year looks really good.
Maybe speak little more here on the U.S.
There obviously been a just a moving parts in the U.S.
the past couple of years with consolidation among the freestanding clinics and potentially some pent-up replacement demand.
Where do you think we are in sort of that handoff where a lot of that consolidation and freestanding clinics are going to cleaned up and we move more into the natural replacement cycle that you should be enjoying now? I think we are still going to see some more consolidation.
I don’t think it’s over yet.
The good news is I think the strong players looking at this an opportunity to grow and invest.
So we are seeing some growth from some players on both the freestanding side and in hospital market.
And I think last radiation oncology is valuated treating cancer.
And I think from an overall point of view the trends that we are planning to really good uptake radiation of oncology over the few years in that cancer play.
Our next question comes from Raj Denhoy from Jefferies.
What if could ask about proton.
I think you mentioned at the Maryland facility is not yet progress to where you’re ready to book again.
But I am curious do you have any update or any I think you offer in terms of timing on that installation.
The short version this isn’t over and talked over.
We’re not going to book it and sell it and now we have seen some progress on the quarter and that could.
But it’s not done until it’s done and Elisha do you want add anything.
No I think that’s it.
The short straight version.
Well in terms of can you remind us again in a way it does happen.
What sort of implications are in terms of revenue to get a release from that.
It will be a significant amount Raj it’s probably North of $70 million or so given that the project has continued under percentage of completion to progress and as you recall when it did not refinance in the fourth quarter there was about $0.17 impact.
And again as we progress on the installation it could be a little bit north of that wants this thing finally and we’re confident that’s going to get financed it’s just a matter of the timing which is impossible to predict.
Okay and then just continuing on proton I believe you mentioned that there was five new tenders you completed for in the quarter anything you offer in terms of size of those installations where those might be in terms of.
No I would say most of them are three and four room centers for a large center.
Flight wise 50 days 75 configurations are all different each one of them.
But I’d say in a 50 to 75 range.
Okay and just lastly I think you ultimately comment around how service in the quarter was about 45% of oncology revenues.
I’m curious if you could put that number in perspective without percentage in perspective in terms of where you think that never ultimately go I know you guys targets a billion is in service but where we are in that past and then also if you could kind offset something similar in terms of where software are at this point will be helpful as well.
On service side we’ve growing double digit for the last several year.
This business is getting really big and hard to grow with double digit rate.
But I’d say we’re going to be if not double digit really close to it.
So it was all a bit stronger in the quarter then we usually see as another will 2014 and the service business but we should be in that double digit range.
What is driving it is really everywhere it’s forgetting installed based throughout any emerging market and so got product coming out warranty driving the emerging key market if got truly which we’re actually celebrating our thousandth TrueBeam this next quarter.
It is the most successful product in both the history of the product and the industry where four and half years get to a thousand in it.
The capture rate on TrueBeam is higher and the price is little bit higher.
So that’s driving service content and then we move to lot of our kind of software as a service to the service business and for that part of the growth there as well which is a nice transition to our software business.
Our software business has had two very good quarters in a row the business we’re investing in aggressively both organically and inorganically with some of things that we did last year.
The velocity is making a nice addition to our product line and we saw very good orders grow in our software business in both fourth quarter and the first quarter.
And if you said what percentage of revenue oncology revenue was this software at this point.
We could saw to $500 million business when you include both the licenses and software.
On a pro forma basis it’s about 500 million some of that equivalent come in the slide.
Our next question comes from Tycho Peterson from JPMorgan.
Thank for taking the question.
Wanted to kind of go back to one on the international market that I appreciate kind of walk you did earlier here on under different geographies thinking about the fact that a lot of value exposure I think 150% Brazilian rush to wind our commodity sensitive market.
Can you just talk about how much you are taking in around macro issue which would be under control and you are thinking that lower oil and prices and things that potentially could have macro impact scenarios like Russia Eastern Europe Brazil Venezuela.
We actually talked a lot about it this last week clearly some of growth we’re seeing in Africa is from oil producing countries you haven’t seen that slowdown so far? That’s a reasonable question to ask.
Some of the growth that we’re seeing in Africa is we’re seeing a lot of growth in Sub-Saharan Africa.
And with the exception on Nigeria there is not of oil in the rest of Sub-Saharan Africa.
So that’s kind of good news on the rest of the African continent we did see some big volume in Eastern Europe Russia in 12 to 18 months ago we take a big order in tons on and we maybe have seen that tail off a little bit as here recently but I think Russian we didn’t much the good news is they need radiation oncology they’re still competitive and they’re pumping oil like crazy and we’ve seen continued investment there we haven’t seen that tail off yet it will be interesting to watch Brazil I think that market have remained strong and we’ve got obviously the big tender we won year ago but we continue to see the private market which tends to buy a higher configuration but it will be interesting to see where the market goes there? And Tycho while it obviously impacts their ability to buy based on the foreign currency we feel in dollars in all of those countries.
And actually two more question for Japan I mean given that - one rate - and how do you think about the risk in that market for you guys this year? I mean to some degree it’s kind of in that in the P&amp;L already.
We had weak orders a year ago and we’re seeing that flow through a little bit that’s part of the weaker guidance you got for Q2 revenue that Elisha talked about.
We did have a very good market share quarter in the first quarter but the market was down.
So we think some of its driven and there is macroeconomic issues but we also think that some of it is driven as well by consumption tax change that maybe had people pulling in some volume little more than a year ago.
And then with the realignment of the reporting by geography obviously get better granularity on the revenue line can you maybe just give us an update on cost structure changes that you’ve made U.S.
versus OUS and where is your US versus OUS cost mix go two to three years in that? I think the bottom line on this line is the intent that what we’re trying to do is get our team closer to the customers.
So we feel very good about that I think we’re already seeing really good empowerment really good ownership in the field on the quarter we saw very good orders with revenue execution.
So that’s what we’re trying to get from the cost point of view that side of it is really small.
Last year most of the investments that we’re making there is a little bit of SG&amp;A that most of the investments we’re making on the R&amp;D side as we look at some programs to drive some top line.
Okay and then two quick follow up.
Elisha I think did you gave the net order number and can you also just comment on annual translation.
I did given that order number 692 which was up 14% over the year ago period.
So why don’t you do the calculation you will see the adjustments in the quarter were 34 million for the total backlog adjustment going from gross to net orders.
And then last one for Dow you talked about [indiscernible] data potentially driving a cycle around therapy capable machine is that actually happening are you seeing that drive dedicated equipment purchase? I’m sorry say that again Tycho the first part of your question kind of broke up.
Lung screening mandate.
We think I’d say at this point we haven’t really seen it flow through I think there is a lot of conversation about it I think that that’s happening for sure but I wouldn’t say that we’ve seen material increase yet.
Well I mean the increase is material but if on such a small base it’s kind of hard to characterize but we continue to - I talked about the new [Tim Merman] paper it’s kind of small patient dataset but very encouraging results and just another example of the clinical research that’s happening with really good news and more and more patients are having access to that and asking their physicians about it and that’s what causing the change.
So I don’t think it’s really kind of in the market yet but very encouraging progress.
Okay and then actually Elisha just to clarify that net order I was looking for oncology not net? That was net orders overall.
So what you do Tycho you start with the prior quarter ending backlog add gross orders for the total company subtract revenue for the total company that should be the ending backlog and any difference from what we report backlog as is the net adjustments.
So that’s total company of which about 30 million of that was related to oncology.
Thank you our next question comes from Vijay Kumar from ISI Group.
Hey guys congrats on the quarter.
Maybe I just want to follow up on the guidance question and I apologize for asking this.
The guidance we’ve - on the revenue and EPS right so basically the way I was looking at it was you had FX which went incrementally worse off.
Does that mean that top line is coming in a lot better than expected or you expecting margin to be much better? What was the math behind the EPS guidance if you will and do you have any proton orders baked into that? No.
So Vijay as we mentioned just on FX alone we think we’re going to lose close to around $50 million in top line Q2 through Q4 and so if the exchange rate has not changed we would be guiding closer to 6% top line growth the prior guidance was 5% to 6% we are now guiding closer to the 5% growth.
We were able to maintain guidance where at the prior level largely because of the Q1 which offset that $0.20 impact as well as we do see some improvements from operations and cost controls and margin going forward into the balance of the year of about $0.06.
So basically you are saying incremental FX headwinds you’re receiving in the model about 100 bps right from the time you gave the last guidance is that correct one.
Correct.
Actually and maybe one in that gross margin clearly phenomenal pull-through on the gross margins and obviously we don’t have the segment details is this all sort of coming in from -- sort service also on the oncology system side or sort of how the schedule is there I guess the gross margin pull through.
Sure.
So oncology I mean obviously we were very pleased with the 45.6% gross margin in the quarter which is well ahead of our long-term margin expectations for oncology and that was driven by product mix shift in service and software clearly driving that as well as a 10 point shift in revenues in North America.
So we had kind of the perfect good stone for a change where both the products and the geographic mix that moved largely in that in our favor.
For the year what that means is based on that Q1 performance I think oncology will come closer to a 44% margin rate which means for the balance of the year we continue to think we’ll be in that 43% to 44% range.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jason Wittes from Brean Capital.
Hi thanks.
So if you could remind us again what the proton assumption is for this year in the guidance you provided? Sure.
So the assumption is revenues are roughly 65 million so that does not include the Maryland or the Emory or UT Southwest potential deals that are not financed yet but those are existing proton deals that we are working on with a growth profit of maybe high single digits very low double digit somewhere in that range.
Okay.
And you mentioned there is five tenders ongoing at the moment are those potentially things will be here about in this fiscal year or are those something we’ll hear more about or pushed into next fiscal year.
One you have to hear it when we award it and two you have to hear it when they’re financed.
So I think there is a good chance that we hear some news on most of those this year and if there is any financing continue to deal all -- before we’re looking.
I think the good news is most of these are outside of the U.S.
so there is not financing continuity.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And also about the Brazilian tender offer that starting to hit this year is that a two year process that you fill those orders how we think about that and how it flow through? No it’s probably and short version is three quarters of it is slightly over two years but we do think it will be three and maybe even for by the time there all done.
We’re beginning shifting in the second half of this year.
Okay that’s helpful.
It also sounds like the other the private side of Brazil is also doing well it sounds like is there way that happen at this point? Probably little less than half that market as we’ve said before pricing is maintaining and by configuration so it’s a good market.
And if I can just ask one on software I appreciate you broke out its roughly $500 million run rate for software right now but you guys done a lot of investing in also -- in expanding our offering I think quite a bit last three years is there any assumption that the general sort of package that a typical side will double or triple at some level over the next few years that part sort of built into your assumption and kind we’d like to maintain double digit growth.
I mean clearly we’re bringing new offerings to the market so we do hope that with every socket there is more opportunity.
So that’s clearly a big piece of what we’re driving.
And I’d say in the short term the single biggest opportunity is rapid plan and rapid plan we think is $200 million to $300 million over the next three years.
It get a 100 orders so far I mentioned on the call we’ve just done our first treatment we really like that.
One of the big investments we’re making is into data analytics that’s our product called instigative and that’s really good.
I think the other kind of exciting thing is lots of these products are relatively Greenfield outside of the U.S.
So Asia and Europe have big opportunity and then of course in the U.S.
at least for things like rapid plan InSightive and our new QA product huge upgrade opportunity in those markets.
So this continues to be a big focal area for us and I think a really good opportunity for the company strong double digit growth last few quarters and we want to keep going.
Thank you our last question comes from Steve Beuchaw from Morgan Stanley.
Good afternoon thanks for let me speak on to the wire here.
Elisha lot of good granularity on the impact of currency would you mind giving us the spot rates that you’re using on the euro and the yen for your calculations of that incremental impact? Sure now and understand there is a kind of the midpoint so obviously we got so much volatility going on right now but our assumptions currently as of the euro that 1.14 began at 1.18 and the Swiss franc at 0.87.
I think that was yesterday’s rates were very close to ours.
Perfect thank you and then on the tax rate with the R&amp;D tax credit in the original guidance for fiscal ’15? No so that obviously until it happen we just didn’t want to count on it.
So that did help Q1 by about $0.02 to $0.03 and had a significant impact on Q1 because the entire affect have to be taken in that quarter once you smooth that R&amp;D tax credit over the fiscal year it impacts the total tax rate - by about 40 basis points.
Got it and then a strategic one for Dow I’d agree with Jeff’s view I mean the U.S.
has been a really nice market for you guys likely so when I look at the numbers my observation is really more that it’s about market share not relative performance.
It is really helpful to hear you reflect on the last 12 months or so and what as you think you’ve done that that’s really working as you drive in competitive situations in the U.S.
and how you see that playing forward? I think it starts first with that product out there to being one of the best product when we introduced it we think the second best product in the market - and both products has just gotten better in last four years.
So we are in terrific market position and high end of the market just if we’ve had the number of customers here to Palo Alto and singing phrases of our TrueBeam product so I think we really have a terrific position on TrueBeam.
One of the things that customers are looking at is total cost of ownership and on total cost of ownership isn’t always about price.
It’s about throughput it’s about versatility it’s about volume it’s about brand and reputation in the market and then it’s also by cost and we’ve I think done a really nice job in our sales team of pushing the differentiation of the product from the total cost point of view.
And on the software side from our software products just keep getting better and better and I think we’re really beginning to turn some heads I think we’ve been turning heads for a long time in treatment planning our treatment plan with physician is terrific and I really think over the last 6 to 12 months in oncology information systems especially with the investments we’ve made in our ARIA product and now these new expansions for QA and analytics really getting some traction there.
Hospital consolidation it hasn’t been a positive for you do you have an incrementally stronger position do you think in the hospitals there are on the buyer side in those transaction? I think we’re equally strong on both sides.
I don’t have my market share in front of me but I’d say it’s pretty close in both hospital and non-hospital.
Thank you I’ll now turn the call back over to Spencer Sias for closing comments.
Thank you for participating.
A replay of this call can be heard on the Varian investor Website at www.varian.com/investor where it will be archived for a year.
To hear a telephone replay please dial 1877-660-6853 from inside the U.S.
or 201-612-7415 from outside the U.S.
and enter confirmation code 13597116.
The telephone replay will be available through 05:00 PM this Friday January 30th.
Thank you.
Thank you this does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Varian Medical Systems Incorporated Second Quarter Full Year 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Spencer Sias Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications for Varian Medical Systems.
Thank you Mr.
Sias you may begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and welcome to Varian Medical Systems conference call for the second quarter of fiscal year 20 15.
With me are Dow Wilson President and CEO; Elisha Finney CFO and Clarence Verhoef our Corporate Controller.
Dow and Elisha will summarize our results then we'll take your questions following the presentation.
To simplify our discussion unless otherwise stated all references to the quarter or year are fiscal quarters and fiscal years.
Quarterly comparisons are for the second quarter of fiscal 2015 versus the second quarter of fiscal 2014 references to financial results for orders are the gross orders unless otherwise indicated.
Please be advised that this presentation and discussion contains forward-looking statements our use of words and phrases such as outlook believe expect anticipate could should will and – I lost the second page so I'm just going to say – I can continue and similar expressions are intended to identify those statements which represent our current judgment on future performance or other future matters.
While we believe them to be reasonable based on information currently available to us these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of the important risks relating to our business are described in our second quarter earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements in this presentation and discussion because of new information future events or otherwise.
And now here is Dow.
Good afternoon and welcome.
For the second quarter of fiscal 2015 we generated good earnings that were achieved in the face of significant currency headwinds.
In summary we are reporting net earnings of $1.05 per diluted share revenues of $759 million down 2% in dollars but up 2% in constant currency.
Excellent cost control efforts that helped our gross and operating margins double-digit oncology orders growth in the Americas that largely offset declines in EMEA and APAC challenges in our imaging components business with the clients in orders and revenues and two big wins in our proton business.
Let's talk about each of the businesses in more detail starting with oncology.
Second quarter gross orders for Oncology Systems rose by 15% in North America and by nearly 10% in China partially offsetting currency related weakness across the bulk of the international markets.
Oncology gross orders totaled $581 million for the quarter down 5% versus the year ago quarter but equal to the year ago quarter on a constant currency basis.
Looking at Oncology three geographies gross orders in the Americas rose 12% in dollars and constant currency.
Gross orders in EMEA declined 24% in dollars and 13% in constant currency principally due to weakness in Africa and India where we had strong orders in the year ago quarter and business tends to be lumpy.
In APAC gross orders fell by 15% in dollars and 8% in constant currency principally due to weakness in Japan.
For the first half oncology gross orders growth rates were as follows; worldwide even in dollars and up 4% in constant currency Americas up 5% in both dollars and constant currency EMEA down 8% in dollars and up 1% in constant currency and APAC down 1% in dollars and up 5% in constant currency.
Our strong order growth in North America during the quarter was highlighted by several large long term deals the largest of which was the project with HCA to equip its Sarah Cannon Cancer Center in Tennessee with seven linear accelerators including six systems.
This installation will also have our new rapid plan and analytics [ph] software using data analytics tools for treatment planning and information management.
The HCA order is an example of the move towards consolidated networks making purchasing decisions aimed at standardizing clinical operations.
The need for integrated clinical solutions drove many customer decisions during the quarter to replace competitive hardware and software product from multiple vendors in favor of a single Varian system.
Clinical integration of treatment planning and delivery as well as information management for safe efficient and effective workflow is a key Varian advantage.
In Latin America currency headwinds led to some purchasing delays that resulted in modest decline in orders.
In EMEA we had sizeable wins in Germany Bulgaria Finland and in the UK; Bayer Healthcare one of the UK's biggest private hospital chains ordered two true beams together with our full software suite for a planned new radiotherapy and radiosurgery facility in Jumpford FX [ph].
In APAC weakness in Japan and Australia overshadowed our growth in China.
In Japan orders were flat in constant currency and down in dollars.
The market remained sluggish however we gained share there during the quarter.
Currency was also a culprit in Australia where a stronger dollar caused some customers to pull back on purchasing decisions.
In China we booked an $18 million order following a public tender by the People's Liberation Army.
During the quarter we also successfully launched the Edge Radiosurgery System in front of more than 250 customers at the Annual China Med Exhibition in Beijing.
China remains a healthy market for us.
Order activity during the quarter was slow in other emerging markets including Brazil India Africa and Russia; Russia in particular remained very quiet.
The long term need for cancer treatment products remained high in developing markets with a number of diagnosed cases is rising and where radiation therapy is among the most cost effective treatment.
In past calls we have talked about expanding our product portfolio to offer more to customers in global markets.
Over the weekend at the ESTRO show in Barcelona Varian announced VitalBeam a significant addiction to our line of linear accelerators.
VitalBeam leverages Varian’s basic two beam technology to provide clinics with new cost competitive options for delivering image-guided radiotherapy.
It can be equipped with accessories including rapid arc respiratory gating onboard imaging and 80 or 120-leaf collimators.
VitalBeam is a scalable and upgradeable system that affordably meets the clinical needs of hospitals today and as they grow in the future.
It's optimized for advanced radiotherapy.
VitalBeam is targeted at the core radiotherapy market where it can serve as a work horse in busy clinics.
Customer interest at ESTRO was very high and we plan to make it available to customers in Europe first while seeking clearances around the rest of the world.
CE mark FDA 510-K and other international regulatory approvals have not yet been obtained.
VitalBeam is currently not available for sale in any market.
We will continue to invest in R&amp;D to bring more products like VitalBeam to market.
In March we held our annual research partner symposium a two and a half day scientific meeting in Atlanta on the future of cancer care.
It attracted 150 leading clinicians and research partners from 71 institutions and 15 countries.
They shared ideas and presentations on their work with knowledge based planning data analytics stereotactic radiosurgery and advanced imaging technology.
It was an exciting meeting and we can see a clear path to the development of significant new treatment capabilities that will dramatically improve the speed and precision of radiotherapy and radiosurgery.
The next steps will be every bit as exciting as IMRT IVRT SBRT Rapid Arc Rapid Plan and TrueBeam.
Let me turn now to our imaging components business.
Gross orders for imaging components fell by 24% to $156 million for the quarter and revenues fell by 8% to $155 million.
Imaging components had a tough comparison with very high panel orders in the year ago quarter as a result of orders that flipped from the first to the second quarter last year.
Additionally orders in sales for tubes and panels were impacted by pricing pressures related to the devaluations in the yen and the euro.
Very strong dollar is causing some customers to reduce inventories insource or look elsewhere for lower cost alternative to our component.
Orders and sales of our security and inspection products also fell sharply in the quarter.
And these products [ph] have been delayed and it appears that customers have already ordered most of what they need for the next few quarters as they work through the backlog.
For the first half orders for tubes and panels were up 6% and sales were flat.
However orders and sales for our security products were down significantly.
While we remain optimistic about the long term growth prospect we believe that this business will continue to face challenging conditions in the near term.
The company's other category comprised of the Varian Particle Therapy business and the Ginzton Technology Center recorded gross orders of $44 million and generated $14 million in revenue.
It was a big quarter for our proton business we won a public tender and booked an order for a ProBeam installation at Aarhus in Denmark.
In addition Varian was announced as the preferred bidder for two proton therapy centers that will be constructed in the United Kingdom over the next two years.
The contacts for these projects are due to be signed during the summer and we expect to book the equipment portion of these orders at that time.
With a strong backlog in the sales pipeline we're starting to see some real momentum in our Particle Therapy business.
Now I will turn it over to Elisha.
Thanks Dow and hello everyone.
Before I walk you through the P&amp;L let me touch on backlog.
The company ended the quarter with $3.1 billion backlog.
Backlog adjustments during the quarter totaled $53 million bringing net orders for the company to $729 million.
The adjustment includes $12 million related to currency exchange rates.
Second quarter revenues for the total company decreased 2% in dollars and increased 2% in constant currency.
Total company revenues in the Americas were up 11% in dollars and up 12% in constant currency.
EMEA revenues were down 1% in dollars but up 10% in constant currency.
APAC revenues were down 25% in dollars and down 21% in constant currency.
For the first half total company revenues were flat in dollars and up 4% in constant currency.
Oncology Systems posted a 2% decline in revenues during the quarter bringing the revenue growth for the first half to 1%.
Imaging components posted a second quarter revenue decline of 8% with small declines in our tubes and flat panel products and a 45% decline in our security and inspection products.
For the first half imaging components revenues were down 3% from the year-ago period with gains in flat panels more than offset by declines in tubes as well as significant declines in security and inspection products.
Revenues for the other category increased significantly from the year ago quarter as we continued production and installation of several proton projects that are in our backlog.
Total company gross margin for the quarter rose 30 basis points to 42.5% with increases in all of our businesses.
Oncology Systems gross margin increased 18 basis points from the year ago quarter to 43% as favorable product and geographic mix more than offset the negative currency impact on revenue.
For the first half oncology's gross margin increased nearly half a point to 44.3%.
The imaging components gross margin for the quarter increased by 216 basis points to 43.7% due largely to a higher mix of panel products product cost reductions and improved quality costs.
For the first half imaging components' gross margin increased nearly 1.5 points to 42.9%.
Second quarter SG&amp;A expenses were 117 million or 15% of revenues an improvement of 250 basis points as a percent of revenues from the year-ago quarter when we had a large patent litigation settlement.
SG&amp;A includes a $3 million charge during the quarter to complete the restructuring that was largely implemented last quarter.
I think it's worth mentioning that SG&amp;A expenses were down significantly from last quarter as the cost savings from the restructuring have started to flow through the P&amp;L.
Second quarter R&amp;D expenses were $59 million or 8% of revenues even as a percentage of revenue with the year-ago quarter.
And for the first half R&amp;D expenses were about even as a percentage of revenue at 8%.
Moving down the income statement second quarter operating earnings totaled $146 million or 19% of revenue.
Depreciation and amortization totaled $16 million for the quarter and $33 million for the first half.
The effective tax rate at 28% was up 35 basis points from the year-ago period when we benefited from a patent litigation settlement.
We now believe the tax rate for the full fiscal year will be 27% to 29%.
Fully diluted shares outstanding decreased from the year ago quarter to $101 million shares due largely to our ongoing repurchase program.
Diluted earnings per share was $1.05 for the second quarter including the $0.02 restructuring charge.
Turning to the balance sheet we ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $862 million debt of $513 million and stockholders' equity of $1.67 billion.
DSO at 88 was improved seven days from the year-ago quarter.
Second quarter cash flow from operations was $53 million less than net income primarily due to working capital increases in inventory and accounts receivable.
For the first half cash flow from operations was $132 million.
Primary uses of cash were $76 million for the repurchase of about 825 000 shares of stock.
At the end of the quarter we had 3.9 million shares remaining under the existing repurchase authorization that extends through calendar year 2015.
Now I will turn it back to Dow for the outlook.
Thanks Elisha.
We believe that for fiscal year 2015 total company earnings will be in the range of $4.02 to $4.14 per diluted share and that revenues will increase by about 1% to 2% in dollars and by about 5% in constant currency.
We now expect that challenges in our imaging components business and currency headwinds will more than offset the earnings momentum of the first half.
We estimate that imaging components could negatively impact earnings by about $0.08 to $0.12 per share.
Additionally since our guidance last quarter the strength of the dollar has diminished our earnings expectations by another $0.06 to $0.10 per diluted share.
For the third quarter of fiscal 2015 we believe total company revenues should be about equal to the prior year period in dollars and up about 4% in constant currency.
Net earnings per diluted share for the third quarter could be in the range of $0.90 to $0.94 per diluted share.
The outlook for the third quarter and full fiscal year 2015 excludes any impact of proton orders not yet booked into the backlog.
Let me finish with a comment on the significant impact of the strong US dollar.
Since last October when we first guided for fiscal year 2015 the strengthening of the dollar has cost us about $0.30 per diluted share not accounting the competitive challenges that this has presented to our imaging component business.
The good news is that we've managed to largely offset this in our operations.
We are now ready for your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jeff Johnson with Robert W.
Baird.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you good evening guys.
Can you hear me okay? Hi Jeff.
Yes.
Great.
So Let me start – I don't think I have ever started this way but I'm going to start on the imaging business.
So Dow I hear what you are saying there on some of the dollar impact and all that.
Kind of run me through the Hitachi deal I thought kind of helped mitigate some of the volatility and there was some minimum purchase requirements and all.
Is it that others on the margin outside of that deal where those variances are coming relative to prior expectations or how should we think about that? Sure let me walk you through it.
First of all from a profit...
So sorry my fault sorry.
That's okay.
Toshiba is our largest customer.
We have seen a little bit of weakness from Toshiba the Japan equipment market is very soft.
Equipment is – most of the business is a service business but the equipment business Japan equipment business is off for them and that's been an impact.
But you heard us say on the half you do have to kind of look at the half to see what's really going on.
The panel business is still a very strong double-digit business and the first half it's going well north of up 10%.
14%.
14% on orders in the first half.
The tube business is about flat in the first half and in orders and SIP our security and inspection business is where we've taken a big hit.
We had some big orders last year and then we think with the inventory that people have they're kind of taken care of for a while.
So we see that as kind of the ongoing part here.
And in tube and panel you know we are concerned – combined panel and tube together 6% in the first half that's not kind of 8 to 12 that we've done historically so we're a little bit worried there.
I'd say people are being very careful and holding back purchases.
We think it will come back but it's a little cloudy as to what it's going to be here over the next six months.
Okay.
And then any update at all on Maryland? And Elisha just want to ask one question on FX.
I'll start on Maryland and Elisha can fix it.
We have made significant progress towards financing this past quarter and we know it's been frustrating for everybody but we're feeling good about where it is.
It is still not done yet we won't book until it's complete so it is still not in our guidance for the year.
There is some probability that could happen this quarter or next quarter so that's the good news but we're not going to put it in guidance until everything's signed up.
When it does book just as a reminder for everybody it will be about $80 million in both orders and revenues and around $0.20 of EPS.
Got it.
And then just on currency Elisha I just want to make sure I'm understanding the comments over the last few quarters.
I thought last quarter the currency impact for the year was up to $0.30 then another $0.06 to $0.10 here.
And Dow I think you referenced in your prepared remarks you're hurdling $0.30 for the year altogether.
So just trying to reconcile I thought we were at $0.30 already last quarter plus the $0.06 to $0.10 incremental this quarter.
Am I missing something there or am I misremembering? Jeff I would have to go back and take a look at that since we gave guidance in Q1 we had another FX impact of about $0.18.
So if you look back at January we were facing guidance on a euro rate of around $1.14 to $1.15 as we've talked about.
Recently up to today it's been closer to the $1.07 $1.08 revenues coming in April are closer to that range.
So that's the delta that we're now talking about.
If the euro were to come back to the $1.11 $1.12 rate that we saw today and stay there for the balance of the quarter obviously that would be good news and could help us get back to the higher end of that range.
But currencies have just been all over the map and so we're trying to look at it as where it's been trending the past week which was closer to the $1.07 range.
Okay that's helpful.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Jason Wittes with Brean Capital.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
If I could just follow up on imaging it seems like this is more than your temporary destocking issue hitting that business.
It sounds like you think this will be a little bit more prolonged than we have seen in the past.
Am I characterizing this correctly or how do you think about sort of what's happened in this quarter and the outlook for the rest of the year but that's basically three quarters.
We think that certainly the security and inspection piece is going to be a big issue for us all year.
So on that aspect of it you're right we – as I said when you look at the panel and – panel business is doing great going 14% in the first half.
The tube business is flat in the first half.
Combine it together 6%.
We'd like to see two or three more points on that.
So we have seen people be very careful with their purchases.
Will that come back? We do know that people are – it is hard to move because we're designed in.
But they are looking at other sourcing options and in-sourcing options in the case of some competitors.
The exchange rate has moved a nickel here just this week maybe that helps us out a little bit as we look at the second half.
Anyway I mean I think the bottom line is when you look at the business I think it's fair to say that we've got some challenges here in the near term two of them panel markets are likely to grow in the mid-single digit range that 5% 6% 7% range is probably about right for panel and two of them comes from market growth.
Just to push a little further just to understand I mean most of your panels and tubes are made I think in Utah.
So that the US dollar manufacturing that's obviously gotten more expensive so that's part of why some of especially the lower cost customers are looking other places.
Is that the right way to think about? Yes Jason I mean – because like we've said many times we sell in dollars so the direct FX impact has not affecting us but what I'm kind of referring to is an indirect impact of the exchange rates.
We are just less competitive relative to Japanese or European manufacturers right now.
And holding inventory helping we suspect customers are going to bleed inventory down to the bare bones and hoping they can bay at a better rate.
Okay.
One other question I wanted to ask about was VitalBeam.
I assume you guys have talked a lot about coming out with products for emerging mark that are both cheaper but also lower cost for you guys to produce as a way of maintaining or even helping your – or even boosting your gross margin.
Is VitalBeam sort of part of that process? Is there a way to think about? Absolutely.
Your VitalBeam is the force of many so I think this is an important growing market for us – as we've said too many times last year we took up R&amp;D pretty significantly last year because we saw a lot of opportunity in the number of markets.
One of those being value segments around the world.
Okay thanks.
I'll jump back in queue.
Our next question comes from Tycho Peterson with JP Morgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Actually I just want to pick up on that last line of questioning.
Was there any disruption in the order book from VitalBeam from the sales people knowing about coming for the emerging mark orders? Just trying to figure that.
I don't think so at all.
I think you kind of heard that go around maybe that's worth hitting for just a second.
Just as a reminder the Americas was great so gross orders were up 12% in the Americas.
North America was up 14% so that was terrific.
EMEA as I said was down when you look at year-to-date year-to-date gross orders are up constant currency 1% in EMEA and that feels okay we would obviously like to do better than that.
We've been surprised by the strength in western Europe we've been weak in eastern Europe Russia; we had a weak Q2 in India and in Africa.
So – Africa and India tend to be lumpy I think the Russia eastern Europe impact is a political one.
But I think we'll see India and Africa come back.
And then we did have a tough comp for our EMEA organization where last year we had a large Algeria order.
In Asia you have heard the story a little bit year-to-date gross orders are up 5% in constant currency in Asia.
In China we were up 9%.
So we still feel very good about where we are in China.
The Japan market year-over-year we think it's down pretty substantially there is some retrenchment going on in Japan the market feels like it's down 30ish percent.
The good news is as I mentioned we've had a very strong performance in market share in Japan and it's nice to see that coming around.
Then of course the other impact we have in Japan is the yen’s off pretty substantially and hitting us there as well in Japan.
So that's kind of a go around the globe.
Elisha would you add anything there? No sounds good.
Does that answer your question Tycho? That helps.
And then I guess just as we think about the opportunity for VitalBeam it's unique as a proxy or I'm just trying to understand how you think about these? Sure it's a really good question.
As I said the really great thing about VitalBeam it's built on the TrueBeam platform so it gives our customers a ton of upgradeability they can scale up IMRT IVRT Rapid Arc they can put a mega voltage imager on it or mega voltage and killer voltage imager they can go down market with an 80 multi-leaf collimator we haven't done that before.
It's got a dose rate that's optimized for radiation therapy at 14000 monitor units.
The TrueBeam is still optimized for SRT – for SRS and SBRT and TrueBeam still has all the motion management the six degree of freedom couch the high definition collimator flatten and culture free in all of our triggered imaging capabilities.
The difference between VitalBeam and Unique Unique is built on our C series platform it's a single energy system and it's really the entry-level product.
So I don't think these – we see this as really kind of between Unique and TrueBeam and fulfilling a space where we can be more competitive.
I think it's going to give us better price support TrueBeam and it's not going to compete with the Unique at all.
And we still have the rest of the product line the IX and the trilogy that kind of fit in there as well.
So we feel very good about the way this product lines up.
I guess just kind of reiterate the point I don't think there was – I would like to say there was some impact from people waiting in these markets for VitalBeam but I don't think so in this last quarter.
Okay.
And then just lastly on software you guys have done a good job there you called out HCA.
I mean is rapid plan coming up in most of your discussions with consolidated networks? And can you maybe just talk to how much share you can pick up? I know you've put out overall goals.
I mean the response of rapid plan has been huge.
I think we're in the top half of the first inning still of that diffusion.
I will say at our research symposium people extremely excited about what rapid plan can do.
We've talked about it a lot in the context of quality in terms of letting everybody in the world do the absolute best care.
But I think the other thing that people are getting ready excited about is the efficiency aspect of the product.
And we had a paper presented at ESTRO last week where one institution was seeing 90-minute reduction in planning times.
So that's per plan that's huge.
And all of a sudden you start to get the same productivity and the symmetry that we had.
When we launched Rapid Arc Rapid Arc was about productivity in the delivery room.
Now we're talking about patient productivity in planning 90-minutes where do you get that kind of productivity it's huge.
And by the way this is a Varian only thing research can't do this and Electa can't do this Pinnacle can't do this.
So we're really first to market with a terrific product great quality and great efficiency.
Okay thank you.
I'm selling hard there Tyco you should buy one.
Our next question comes from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
I wanted just to start with a few detailed follow-ups on the guidance and hopefully my math is correct here.
As I look at the operating margin progression that sort of implied by the guidance for the rest of the year it does look like you're contemplating a very significant fall-off in profitability in the third quarter and a big bounce back in 4Q.
And while I understand revenue volumes have something to do with the overall profitability you would still be down materially on operating margins year-over-year in the third quarter despite relatively flat revenue.
Can you just help us understand the gyrations in profitability over the balance of the year? Absolutely David.
And really it's just – when we look at the shippable backlog and what we expect to deliver in Q3 it is very significantly shifting to international and to emerging marks.
So it's really reflected in the gross margin based on geography.
We had the opposite effect in Q2 where we had a significant increase in North America deliveries.
It's just the way the machines land I would say in Q4 in the year ago period if you remember we had strong orders in North America.
So Q4 will be again more North American focused and so it's just the way it breaks down.
I wouldn't read too much into quarter-to-quarter but really just kind of looking at the year.
And interestingly on the year if you exclude all of the augmenix [ph] and the patent litigation from last year and you exclude the restructuring from this year we're actually going up about 10 basis points in margin.
So I look at that and say apples-to-apples we're doing a really good job on controlling costs and that the restructuring is starting to pay off.
So I would just caution you to look at the years versus one quarter.
Okay understood.
And then I guess a follow-up on the restructuring it looks like a very fast impact for the comments in your prepared remarks and also in the numbers.
Are we getting to a point where the direct costs take out opportunity is reaching a plateau or is there still more opportunity to go on the SG&amp;A line without seeing a pickup in revenue? Yes I mean you saw from immediate impact on the restructuring because the bulk of that was implemented in the first quarter.
And so those heads came out of payroll immediately when that was executed.
So you will continue to see that flow through the P&amp;L.
Now that said we are continuing to replace some of those retirees and lower cost jurisdictions.
So don't hold me to no headcount increases because that won't happen but we did see a significant improvement in SG&amp;A.
It can be lumpy I will caution that but I feel very good about how the businesses have controlled headcount how we've controlled travel expenditures and all of our costs.
Okay.
And then my last question it's sort of a longer term one and understandably this business does have quarter-to-quarter fluctuations and order timing delivery macroeconomic factors etcetera but as I think about what you talked about as a multi-year revenue goal something like 68%.
You just haven't gotten there the past several quarters; I think the trailing four quarter constant currency average revenue growth is below 5% and closer to 4%.
So what gives you the confidence in being able to see that type of sharp acceleration and be able to perform at that higher level sustainably? So if I look at the full year in dollars we're expecting 1% to 2% as we talked about and constant currency is going to be between 5% and 6%.
Now a significant part of that is coming from growth in our proton therapy business year-over-year.
But – you get me back to $1.27 $1.30 euro we can turn in that kind of growth.
This is clearly FX related and unprecedented levels on the euro and the yen that we're facing today.
Understood.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vijay Kumar with Evercore ISI.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys thanks for taking my question.
So Dow I apologize if I'm repeating my question.
I just hopped on the call.
Can you give some clarity on the cancellations within the quarter – it looks like if I'm looking at may math oncology was high singles or maybe low doubles; and could you talk about sort of what drove that acceleration? I mean sequentially it looks like it's worsen.
Vijay actually if you were to look at the year ago period backlog adjustments at $53 million are down.
In that $53 million – I think it was $59 million in the year ago period.
In that $53 million there is $12 million related to FX and that's because when we put something into backlog we put it in at that rate and then it is held at that rate in dollars.
So when the revenue comes out at a different exchange rate we have to adjust our backlog to make the math work.
So though we put the order in at the exchange rate of today I know that's a little complicated answer so there is an FX impact of $12 million in the quarter as well as we had a $10 million $11 million outright cancellation of a tender for our security and inspection products business.
I believe it was the Saudi Arabia tender that was just delayed indefinitely so we took that order out of our backlog.
So oncology actually if you look at those two things they had a very low rate of dormant fee or cancellation in the quarter.
Got you and that was helpful.
Maybe on the imaging side and I understand you have a large customer sort of – can you maybe just talk about the longer term sort of trends? Because imaging in past I mean it's been a fantastic business probably doesn't get as much attention but then when you look at the EBIT line the contribution has been pretty significant.
So I'm just trying to sort of put this into context and probably some of this was FX or maybe on the longer term outlook for this market.
No we still really love the long term prospects to this business the whole shift from analog to digital products is driving the flat panel business.
We actually think that in fact as that cost and price comes down we're opening up more and more markets for that growth.
So we think the panel business is going to continue to be a very strong and good market for us.
I think we've got some short term perturbations we're looking at our supply chain comment was already made relative to the cost of businesses very good dollar denominated and do we need to do something to have a little bit more of a natural hedge and make sure we've got the cost position that we need with this kind of global currency market fluctuation that we've seen.
But we think the long term of the business is still very very positive; we love the business model that we have it's a very low cost distribution and service business.
So that's terrific and frankly we love to add on to it and are even looking at some inorganic opportunities to maybe grow the portfolio.
Got you.
And maybe if I can squeeze out one more in I'm not sure if your commentary on product versus service growth within the oncology systems in the quarter? Yes service on the revenue side for the quarter was up 4% 9% year-to-date.
Orders were about flat and that really is just a timing issue related to when contracts get renewed.
And currency.
And currency yes.
Our next question comes from Steve Beuchaw with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi Steve.
Hi good afternoon everyone.
Sorry if it was embedded in that last response somewhere but did you give a software growth number for the quarter? We did not.
No but it was up $7 million or $8 million quarter-over-quarter versus year ago period and revenue.
Quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year? I don't have year-on-year but it should be up in revenues.
I believe it was up last quarter as well.
Okay.
And then we're here in late April so I'll ask the obligatory reimbursement question.
I guess it's less interesting than some years given that CMS laid out so much in the final rule last year about where they were going but I wonder if you've heard anything from your DC folks about where you think reimbursement goes this year whether it's in terms of structure or rates? Thanks.
I'd say is it's been pretty quiet we have not heard anything new in the last quarter or so.
So it's been pretty quiet on the eastern front.
That's impressive that you know that considering that you're on the west coast.
Well thanks so much guys.
Have a good day.
There are no further questions in queue at this time.
I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Sias for closing comments.
Thank you.
Thank you all for participating.
The replay of this call can be heard on the Varian investor website at www.varian.
com/investor where it will be archived for a year to.
Hear a telephone replay please dial 1-877-660-6853 from inside the US or 1-201-612-7415 from outside the US and enter code number 1360946.
Telephone replay will be available through 5.00 PM.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a great day.
Greetings and welcome to the Varian Medical Systems Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Spencer Sias Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications for Varian Medical Systems.
Thank you Mr.
Sias you may now begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and welcome to Varian Medical Systems conference call for the third quarter of fiscal year 2015.
With me are Dow Wilson President and CEO Elisha Finney CFO and Clarence Verhoef our Corporate Controller.
Dow and Elisha will summarize our results and we will take your questions following the presentation.
To simplify our discussion unless otherwise stated all references to the quarter or year are fiscal quarters and fiscal years.
Quarterly comparisons are for the third quarter of fiscal 2015 versus the third quarter of fiscal 2014 references to financial results for orders are the gross orders unless otherwise indicated.
Please be advised that this presentation and discussion contains forward-looking statements.
Our use of words and phrases such as outlook believe expect anticipate could should will promising and similar expressions are intended to identify those statements which represent our current judgment on future performance or other future matters.
While we believe them to be reasonable based on information currently available to us these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of the important risks relating to our business are described in our third quarter earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements in this presentation and discussion because of new information future events or otherwise.
Now here is Dow.
Good afternoon and welcome.
The third quarter was mixed with strong constant currency growth in Oncology Systems gross orders significant challenges in Imaging Components and a strong performance in Particle Therapy.
In summary we are reporting net earnings of $1.13 per diluted share revenues of $784 million up 5% in dollars and 11% in constant currency oncology gross orders of $635 million up 2% in dollars and 10% in constant currency.
Significant declines in orders and revenues for our Imaging Components business a big negative quarter-over-quarter impact from a strong U.S.
dollar and with the booking of two more a multi-room proton orders as well as significant revenue from the Maryland installation.
Turning to the operational highlights Oncology gross orders totaled $635 million for the quarter up 2% and 10% in constant currency.
In the Americas gross orders were up 4% both in dollars and constant currency.
In EMEA gross orders were down 2% but up 13% in constant currency.
In APAC orders rose 8% and were up 21% in constant currency.
We are really pleased with the constant currency growth in this business.
Let me give you some color on each of the geographies.
Latin America drove the orders growth in the Americas offsetting a 2% decline in North Americas year-to-date our orders were up 3% in North America and we believe we have gained market share.
In North America we booked $4 million of the $25 million long-term orders from a noble [ph] healthcare which is standardizing on Varian equipment software and services across its network.
We also achieved nearly $30 million of competitive to takeouts in North America during the quarter replacing seven Siemens machines as well as 20 installation of software from competitors.
Clinics in North America and around the world are seeking to standardize on fully integrated cost efficient versatile treatment systems.
This is Varian strength.
Strong demand in Brazil Argentina and Colombia drove an 82% order increase across Latin America.
In EMEA we booked our largest several orders in Spain for $21 million to supply 10 linear accelerators including three TrueBeam systems to five hospitals into Asia.
This order also includes Varian's full suite of treatment planning and Oncology information management software healthy demand in the U.K.
Sweden and Italy as well as wins in Germany where we capturing share added to the growth in EMEA.
We completed the operational setup of a new strategic operating entity in Saudi Arabia to better support cancer patients and the medical community in the Middle East.
Aramco in Saudi Arabia placed an $8 million order in the quarter for advanced treatment systems and we also made a strong contribution during the quarter ordering two of our top of the line Edge radiosurgery systems.
As you may have seen in an earlier press release Yashoda Hospital in Hyderabad has just treated its 10 000<sup>th</sup> patients with RapidArc.
This is quite achievement and we are pleased to see our fast and efficient systems making cancer care more affordable and accessible to patients around the world.
Our new VitalBeam product has now received FDA 510(k) and CE approvals making it marketable in many territories.
We received our first VitalBeam order in India and we expect this affordable and upgradable linear accelerator for radiotherapy to be a winner particularly in emerging markets.
Overall EMEA remains a healthy market with year-to-date constant currency orders growth of 6%.
In APAC China again led the way during the quarter with healthy growth in orders including for the first two Edge radiosurgery systems.
Stereotactic body radiotherapy was a topic of discussion at our recent users meeting in Beijing which attracted about 500 customers.
Australia also contributed to the growth in APAC when Radiation Oncology Queensland placed an order to install TrueBeam systems and software at five sites.
In Japan we saw some promising developments with order for TrueBeam systems and service that led to strong constant currency growth.
We also announced the software alliances with Flatiron Health to develop the next generation of cloud based oncology informatics products leveraging Varian's expertise in radiation oncology and Flatiron expertise in medical oncology.
The alliance will deliver software for our fully integrated powerful cloud-based oncology information product suit.
Our oncology service business grew orders by 8% during the quarter and represented 42% of oncology systems orders for the period.
We remain on track to hit the $1 billion service milestone this year notwithstanding currency headwinds.
Subsequent to the close of the quarter CMS published its proposals for 2016 Medicare reimbursement rates in the U.S.
Under the proposal hospitals which represent 90% of the U.S.
market for equipment would receive a nearly 2% increase in reimbursement overall for radiation oncology services.
In freestanding clinics CMS is proposing an overall reduction of 9% for technical fees and a 3% reduction for physician fees.
The impact of these proposed cuts will vary depending upon the mix of patients and treatment protocols.
We are partnering with radiation oncology stakeholders to express our concern about the impact of the CMS proposals on our customers and on patients' access to cancer care.
Let me turn now Imaging Components which experienced another challenging quarter.
Gross orders for Imaging Components fell by 25% to $122 million for the quarter and revenue shrank by 17% to $235 million.
Security and inspection products revenues fell sharply during the quarter as the market for border protection systems has slowed significantly and customers particularly in oil-based economies or war zones like Iraq are not moving forward with system deployment for tenders.
Additionally customers have put significant pressure on pricing from their suppliers.
We expect annual revenues for this business to be off versus the previous year by about $35 million.
For security and inspection products the fourth quarter will also be challenging as the very tough orders comp with the prior year period.
Severe pricing pressure and a product mix shift caused a significant decline in panel orders during the quarter.
Year-to-date orders for the panel business were up 2% and revenues were down 6%.
Competition in the radiographic portion of the panel market has intensified and put dollar-based products that are disadvantage.
We are faced with the challenge of developing new products to meet tougher costs and performance expectations.
A bright spot for our panel business is the recent House of Representatives passage of the 21<sup>st</sup> Century Cures Legislation that contained a provision supported by Varian to incentivize the transition to digital radiography.
This bill increases reimbursement for digital radiography while cutting rates for older less efficient technologies that now move to the Senate and we are hopeful that it sets the stage for more robust panel business in the future.
Revenues in our Tube business have been relatively flat as improvements in product quality and tube life have softened demand for replacement tubes.
While currency does not have a direct impact on the performance of the Imaging Components business it is having a dramatic effect on customer behavior in all product lines.
Customers are actively looking for lower cost alternatives to dollar-based products.
In the short-term we are managing this business to maintain our market share.
Over the long-term we are stepping up our imaging investments including R&amp;D to enhance our competitiveness.
Subsequent to the end of the quarter we announced an agreement to acquire Claymount privately held Netherlands-based supplier of components and subsystems for X-ray imaging equipment manufacturers.
Claymount is one of the world's leading suppliers of X-ray imaging components including high-voltage connectors generators and those control mechanisms used in medical X-ray imaging.
With annual revenues of about €30 million the company is a supplier to many global medical X-ray equipment manufacturers.
This should give us good cross-selling opportunities and offer the added benefit of providing Varian's other businesses and internal source of lower cost components.
Claymount's products complement and diversify our X-ray product offerings.
This will further expand Varian's portfolio of components and subsystems that will enable X-ray OEMs to get their products to market faster and more efficiently.
The company's other category comprised of the Varian Particle Therapy business and Ginzton Technology Center recorded gross orders of $131 million and generated $91 million in revenue.
This was an outstanding quarter for our Particle Therapy business with a significant level of activity.
We booked the Maryland deal which resulted in the first profitable quarter ever for this business.
We also booked an order for our four room system in the Netherlands.
Subsequent to the close of the quarter we finalized $150 million in contracts to equip and service a five-room center in Manhattan the first proton facility in New York state also we finalized the two previously announced contracts in the U.K.
With three centers treating patients using Varian equipment and 11 more projects in backlog we are now seeing some real momentum in this business.
Now I will turn it over to Elisha.
Thanks Dow and hello everyone.
Before I walk you through the P&amp;L let me touch on backlog.
The company ended the quarter with $3.1 billion backlog up 9% from year ago quarter.
Backlog adjustments during the quarter totaled $60 million bringing net orders for the company to $828 million.
The backlog adjustment includes $17 million related to currency impact and a $12 million from the cancellation of an oncology order in Ukraine.
Third quarter revenues for the total company increased 5% in dollars and 11% in constant currency.
Total company revenues in the Americas were up 6% in both dollars and constant currency.
EMEA revenues were down 1% in dollars and up 12% in constant currency.
APAC revenues were up 11% in dollars and up 20% in constant currency.
Year-to-date total company revenues were up 2% in dollar and up 6% in constant currency.
Oncology systems posted a 3% decline in revenues during the quarter bringing the revenue decline year-to-date to 1% in dollars.
The vast majority of the FX impact occurred in our oncology business where constant currency revenues were up mid single-digits for the quarter and year-to-date.
Imaging Components posted the third quarter revenue decline of 17% with significant declines in our flat panel and security inspection products and slight declines in our tube products.
Year-to-date Imaging Components revenues were down 7% from year ago period with slight declines in tubes mid single-digit declines in panels and a nearly 30% decline in Security and Inspection products.
As a reminder Imaging Components sells primarily in U.S.
dollars.
Revenues for the other category increased significantly from the year ago quarter as we recorded nearly $80 million related to the University of Maryland proton project.
Total company gross margin for the quarter fell by approximately three points to 40%.
Let me walk you through this.
Oncology Systems gross margin decreased by about two percentage point from the year ago quarter to 41.9% due to an unfavorable and expected significant shift to lower margin geographies and negative currently impacts.
Year-to-date oncology's gross margin decreased 41 basis points to 43.5% due largely to currency.
The Imaging Components gross margin for the quarter fell by more than three percentage points to 38.9% due to steep declines in revenues from our panel and Security and Inspection products.
Year-to-date Imaging Components gross margin was equal to the year ago period at 41.7% due to the product cost reductions and improved quality costs that offset pricing pressures.
The other category including our proton business which benefit from a weaker euro had a 31% gross margin in the quarter due largely to the Maryland Proton project.
While the margin performance was terrific for this business the higher proportion of proton revenues was dilutive to the overall gross margin for the company.
Third quarter SG&amp;A expenses were $111 million or 14% of revenues an improvement 2.5 percentage points from the year ago quarter when we booked an $8 million charge for the impairment of a portion of the company's investment in Augmenix.
On an apples-to-apples basis excluding the impairment in the year ago period SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue improved 1.5 percentage points from the year ago quarter.
Third quarter R&amp;D expenses were $60 million or 8% of revenues equal as a percentage of revenue with the year ago quarter.
Moving down the income statement third-quarter operating earnings totaled $144 million or 18.4% of revenues.
Depreciation and amortization totaled $17 million for the quarter and $50 million year-to-date.
The effective tax rate at 22.1% was down almost 3.5 points from year ago period due largely to the geographic mix of profits and the use of German tax loss carryforwards that were applied to the proton profits.
Given the ongoing geographic mix shift the profits to outside North America and the German tax loss carryforwards we now believe the tax rate for the full fiscal year will be about 27%.
Fully diluted shares outstanding decreased from year ago quarter to 100.5 million due largely to our ongoing share repurchase program.
Diluted EPS was $1.13 for the third quarter.
Turning to the balance sheet we ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $951 million debt of $495 million and stockholders' equity of $1.7 billion.
DSO at 83 improved by five days from the second quarter and by 12 days from year ago quarter with the help of strong collections and higher proton revenues.
Third quarter cash flow from operations was $184 million significantly higher than net income due primarily to working capital improvements.
Year-to-date cash flow from operations was $316 million slightly more than net earnings for the period.
Primary uses of cash were $92 million for the purchase of 1 million shares of stock.
At the end of the quarter we had 2.9 million shares remaining under the existing repurchase authorization that extends through calendar year 2015.
Before turning it over to Dow for the guidance I would like to detail two more items.
First as you probably saw in recent press releases in the third quarter we extended $35 million in financing for the Maryland Proton project.
Subsequent to quarter end we extended $91 million in financing for the New York project.
We will be able to fund these loans using international cash at a weighted average interest rate of approximately 10%.
You can find additional details in our public filings.
Second given recent acquisitions including Claymount as well as historical one-time activities that make quarter-over-quarter comparisons difficult we will begin showing non-GAAP financials in the fourth quarter.
We believe this will allow us to evaluate and measure the financial performance of acquisitions on a more appropriate operational basis easily provide quarter-over-quarter comparisons excluding unusual items enable better comparability among our peer group and provide additional transparency to the financial community.
Now I will turn it back to Dow for the outlook.
Thanks Elisha.
We expect that revenues for the full fiscal year will increase by about 2% in dollars and by about 6% in constant currency.
We ended the second quarter with earnings guidance for fiscal 2015 in the range of $4.02 to $4.14 per diluted share.
At the end of the third quarter with the approximately $0.22 per diluted share for the booking of the Maryland Proton therapy system partially offset by ongoing challenges in our Imaging Components business we now believe that our earnings for fiscal 2015 could be in the range of $4.20 to $4.25 per diluted share.
The company will begin showing non-GAAP results starting in its fiscal fourth quarter.
Non-GAAP earnings for fiscal year 2015 should be higher than the GAAP range by approximately $0.16 per diluted share comprised of restructuring charges in the first half of the fiscal year 2015 acquisition-related costs and amortization of intangibles.
We are now ready for your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jeff Johnson from Robert W.
Baird.
Thank you.
Good afternoon guys.
Can you hear me okay? Hi Jeff I can.
Yup.
Elisha I just wanted to ask a couple of questions on the proton business to start.
One what are you thinking revenue now for the year.
I think you had been guiding to what $50 million to $60 million before something.
I can't remember plus Maryland so should we just at those two together? Has the outlook for the year changed? Then as you go into next year it seems like equipment is starting to ship to Emory.
I know that hasn't been booked as an order so that won't flow to P&amp;L yet.
It looks like equipment has starting to be delivered you have got a couple of other projects here that are now starting to deliver can '16 proton contribution to the P&amp;L be as big or maybe even slightly bigger than it is now in '15 with Maryland in there.
For the year Jeff we are somewhere between call it $135 million or $140 million somewhere in that neighborhood.
It is always difficult to predict with precise accuracy because of the percentage of completion method on when inventories arrive and that sort of thing but around $140 million.
Obviously we are very excited given all of the recent quarter activities in this business.
We are not prepared at this point to give any kind of guidance into FY'16.
I do think that from the top-line perspective we will be able to at least get to that number or exceed it by a little bit not so sure on the profitability only because Emory we are we are not going to be including in any guidance as we get into FY'16 until the point where their financing is secured so that would change our numbers pretty significantly but stay tuned.
We will give guidance next quarter on looking into FY'16.
Let me just add we do feel good that we that we have no losses from last year so the trend is certainly in the right direction.
As we get to the end of next quarter we will take a hard look at each of that each of the systems and where they land in 2016 along with the percent of completion as Elisha discussed.
We will give you that guidance next quarter.
Jeff just to clarify Spencer said he thinks you said that we are shipping to Emory.
We are not.
There is no equipment that has gone to Georgia at this point.
Yes.
I think we got into the article that was boat or something like maybe that incorrect or something but that is fine.
On the tax rate Elisha I just want to understand.
We knew when Maryland book that there would be a tax rate benefit there as well.
That is how there got to be a 22% benefit even though we could never get there and just kind of our normalized look at the P&amp;L so what would be your tax rate guidance for the year if it weren't for Maryland? Are you changing your ETR guidance for the year ex-Maryland or is the change in the ETR guidance simply because of Maryland so your core tax rate guidance really is not changing.
It is kind of hard to parse it out for one deal.
Let me just say that I believe even without Maryland we would have had perhaps a one point reduction in our tax rate because that is why you will see Q4 return to a more normalized 28% to 29% and it will get us to roughly 27% for the full fiscal year.
Okay.
Then my last question just Dow on the imaging business obviously two rough quarters here.
I mean is this something we should just think of as two two-and-a-half more rough quarters.
We kind of reset the base that this 20% lower level or is this something that could extend for a couple years of kind of gradual bleed down and just how to conceptually think about that.
I will just leave it at that.
Thanks.
It is a good question.
I think there is two pieces of it.
First of all the security piece is very tough to call.
As Elisha as we said in the call that business is down about $35 million year-over-year.
It is a cyclical business oil prices are at a historic low and we just do not see that oil-based economy which has our largest customers about 75% of that business is outside of the U.S.
and huge chunk of that is in the Middle East.
The security board of protection side of that we see as kind of being very cyclical and I think that is going to remain soft for a while.
We do not see that bouncing back right away.
The flat-panel business we talked about in the script some product mix issues as people are shifting to lower performance lower cost products and we are seeing price pressure in that business that I think in part is related to the dollar denominated business so it is kind of the one way of seeing the FX in that business.
We are seeing our customers there press very hard for cost reductions for local suppliers and evaluating competitive alternatives so I think we have got you know several quarters of kind of tough sweating here in that that business.
Good news is that the two businesses seem pretty stable and we are pushing hard on the innovation front in this business.
I think as we look to next year it will be helped by the acquisitions clearly we are announcing Claymount today and that the MeVis acquisition that we announced earlier this year.
I would say what are we six months in it looks very good and we are very pleased with where the MeVis acquisition is going for our components business.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vijay Kumar from Evercore.
Hi Vijay.
Hey guys.
How is it going? I had a two-part question so maybe I will start one on the margin front right now.
Just given everything that we have seen sort of on the competitive landscape I know it sounds if FX and mix but can you just walk us through sort of the some of the drivers because I am not sure I understand that the gross margin now progressed here.
Sure.
Let me just kind of walk you through Vijay by business.
I mean oncology the good news there is year-to-date they are right at 43.5% right smacking the middle of the long-term range that we are trying to get to a 43% to 44% and that is despite the significant FX impacts that we have had.
Our revenues for FY'15 on a constant currency basis are down about $125 million for total company just due to direct CapEx and most of that hits our Oncology business so they have done a very good job at maintaining margins.
In the quarter we expected that they had just a huge shift to international deliveries that was an eight point swing quarter-over-quarter and that was built into our guidance and when we talked about their margin last quarter I believe we mentioned that so I am quite pleased with how oncology has been able to maintain margins in a really tough FX environment.
ICB this is our Imaging Components.
It is a volume business so when we have significant declines in volume it just flows through the gross margin which is exactly what you saw in the third quarter.
Again year-to-date kudos to the team they have maintained gross margin even with a year ago period by going back to suppliers by getting cost reductions by reducing costs every way they can improving quality.
I do think we are going to obviously have some pressures as we go into the balance of the year on the gross margin for the Imaging business but again they have done a tremendous job so far this year on keeping it flat year-over-year.
Then the total company will obviously impacted as well by proton they had a terrific quarter but it is still lower than the overall company gross margin so it was dilutive to the company's gross margin but a great performance by protons in the quarter.
Thanks Elisha.
That was helpful.
Down one big picture question for all right? I know that you have got a lot of momentum on the proton side of the business right? A couple of them the deal sort of you enter into some really really attractive financing terms right? I guess some of the questions I got from investors was by financing more of these deals is Varian taking on some sort of balance sheet for us over the longer-term right all the mix when I am looking at the company 5 years or 10 years so is there going to be balance sheet for us and I am just curious to hear your thoughts.
It is a really good question.
I think first of all the process around this is very robust.
It is reviewed with the audit committee of our board.
We are really pleased that Maryland and New York we are in with other smart money from investment banks Goldman Sachs JPMorgan Deutsche Bank you know so we are not doing this by ourselves by any stretch.
We have contributed financing for Scrips Maryland and New York.
We are not likely to increase our exposure to any other developer kind of deals.
We consider financing small projects with other smart money in the right way and making sure that we have got great due diligence with outside reputable partners.
We do evaluate this every quarter with our audit committee and we are pretty comfortable with the position we have at this point time.
Elisha would you add anything? Yes.
I would just add that with the exception of New York which is unique in the consortium model all of our recent quarter activity have been cash paying customers and clearly when you have got 10% interest on the debt the economics to cash paying customers in these deals is much better.
Early on we have really had to do this in order to jumpstart our proton therapy business.
Last thing I would say is we are generally speaking on the exact same commercial terms with the bulge banks so we are secured by the assets of the property.
I would say maybe just to add long-term we are not here to be financing equipment.
That is not our vision.
This is the market development model as we bring this business up and we have got the balance sheet to do it so we will do that in the short-term but it is not something we view as a long-term play for the company.
Got you.
One quick one Elisha housekeeping did you talk about the service versus product contribution to the oncology gross order growth? We talked about the fact that service was up 8% in orders in dollar.
I do not have that broken out by constant currency but it would be higher.
It would clearly be in the double-digit.
Yes.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Thanks Vijay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Steve Beuchaw from Morgan Stanley Hi Steve.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
First a strategic question for you Dow I wonder to what extent do you today or longer-term think about that the wins on the proton size drivers of Linac market share.
I mean I asked to ask the question because there is a pretty high profile wins that you are getting here.
We like the fact that they are high profile wins.
It certainly has not hurt.
Having said that our market share in our accelerated business is very high and we have been gaining share.
I actually would say that the share I think we have gained in the last 18 months looks the wins that we have had there is may be - that you could count them on one hand number the number of Linacs we have won.
So far the markets share growth we have seen in the last 18 months is not directly attributable to any proton deals as there is some broader halo effect.
I would say it certainly hasn't hurt us and it might help us a little bit.
I would say that one of things that we really like is the fact that from a customer point of view it is one treatment planning system it is one oncology information system.
You know if you are a patient and you are getting brachytherapy radiation therapy proton therapy we have got you and that is one treatment plan that is integrated and that works really well.
Then for our users you know we have brought the user interface together so when you look at TrueBeam and ProBeam protons and photons radiation therapy and photon therapy is very very common and for customers that will be using both that is a big advantage because they can leverage their resource across their therapy enterprise.
Okay.
Thanks Dow.
Elisha just a couple of quick housekeeping items so thanks for flagging the non-GAAP transition that is coming up.
I wonder if you know off-hand what the delta between GAAP and non-GAAP would have been in 2014 just as we think about getting our models ready for the change.
Then second question is as you contemplate the outlook for the fourth quarter do we see a bounce back in oncology gross margins? You commented on imaging but I did not hear a comment there on oncology if you do not mind.
Thanks so much.
Okay.
I do not have FY'14 at this point Steve.
I would tell you that it was complicated because if you remember you can basically pull out Augmenix and you can pull out [ph] in FY'14 and our amortization of intangibles run roughly $2 million a quarter so that can kind of get you there.
In terms of Q4 that maybe your follow-up question.
Of that $0.16 roughly 2 pennies would be non-GAAP additive to our GAAP guidance for Q4.
In terms of Oncology's margin again for the full fiscal year the lead will be somewhere about 43% so that puts Q4 closer to the 42%.
Again just based on product mix and geographic mix that was seeing in the quarter.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks again everyone.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Roman from Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
This is actually Kyle filling in for David.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking the questions.
In your prepared remarks you mentioned recent success on the software side of the business.
I was hoping you could provide some specific parameters around the dollar revenue contribution from software in the quarter.
Then perhaps briefly discuss the flat Flatiron partnership and how that stance enhance or transform your current services offering? Sure.
On the software side I think all we have well we talked about is in fact that it is about $0.5 billion a year.
We do not break it out as a quarter.
We feel very good about its growth.
In the last five six quarters it has been doing very well.
I would say high single-digit kind of performance in oncology the Velocity acquisition that we did last year is kind of idea of treatment plan imaging data informatics demographics anywhere.
Do you want to see it on your iPad your iPhone at home in the office is really kind of what is driving that strategy and the Flatiron alliance is one more kind of brick in the wall here where what we are looking at is we really do well in radiation oncology and we now want bring one of the leaders in medical oncology together with us to provide great informatics for the cancer patients be it radiation or medical oncology and that will be we think a really nice addition.
The other thing it allows us to do is pivot to the cloud and those would be cloud-based implementation.
There are some other products we introduced about a year ago that are part of the driver.
We introduced InSightive which is the informatics product for radiation oncology and we introduced Qumulate which is not that expensive of the product but turn out to be a big deal for our customers to really drive best practice sharing and quality in the areas of quality assurance for our customers.
Thank you.
Then just maybe one quick question for Elisha when you speak about indirect FX headwinds their impact on Imaging Components business and your intention to retain share ex-U.S.
is the implication that you have done the same volumes abroad and have heavily discounted price or has share come under pressure there as well? Let me make sure I understand your questions.
On the FX indirect I mean the ICB revenues this year will be down roughly $50 million from last fiscal year which as we said about $35 million of that is coming from our security and inspection product so that is where we are seeing the bulk of the falloff.
I think it close to 30% year-to-date.
In the tube? Maybe another way of saying that is pretty much all of our business in Imaging Components is contracted in dollars so you do not see an FX adjustment because all the business is in dollars but we are seeing customers put a lot of pricing pressure on us.
As I said in the call there are shop in alternatives in-sourcing or competitors to look at their cost position.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
That is helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Tycho Peterson from JPMorgan.
Thanks.
Elisha just first on guidance I do not know if you said whether Claymount is in guidance or not.
Can you clarify? Claymount is going to be immaterial to this fiscal year either on a GAAP or non-GAAP basis so it is either direction.
It is less than a penny impact.
Just given that it won't close until the 1<sup>st</sup> of August.
Okay.
Then the only delta and proton is Maryland? Is that new in this quarter guidance versus last? Maryland which was a $0.22 I am not sure I am understanding your question Tycho.
I mean I guess nothing else different versus the prior guidance around proton? No.
Okay.
I guess Dow on the reimbursement with 77418 going away I mean you talked about lobbing and hoping to kind of get that overturned.
Maybe just can you talk to the risk if that does not give overturned what you think was with the down coding of procedures into the simple category? Yes.
I mean clearly as we have talked about on the call before the freestanding market is a very small piece of U.S.
equipment market now so probably it is somewhere between 5% and 10% of our global market so the impact over several years of reimbursement reduction is kind of what has happened to the markets.
10 years ago this market was a third of our business but today it is 5% to 10% at the very most so I think that the impact on equipment is very very small.
For our customers this is a big deal and we have got to support them in this.
Radiation therapy is still one of the highest value adding modalities for treating cancer and one of the lowest costs so we have got to make sure that we are in there with the fight.
Some of our customers have taken and a look at this.
Those that have a little bit higher prostate mix are going to be impacted higher and those that aren't we have one of our very large customers think that the impact will be pretty balanced for them.
Now they have worked hard to bring new level of complexity and round out their product mix so they are doing more SRS and SBRT and treating more lung liver and neck breast kind of cancers so I think for those kinds of customers the impact is quite overstated.
Then I guess just lastly on Oncology I mean given kind of what we are seeing an orders and some of the margin dynamics Elisha talked about earlier are there additional things you can do on the supply chain side? I mean you talked about your initiatives in the past to try to improve the margin on TrueBeam and some of the products but are there additional levels you can pull from a supply chain perspective to credit tech? Yes.
We are going at it with a vengeance.
The good news is our TrueBeam volume is growing dramatically and with VitalBeam kind of on that same platform more and more of our product is that platform so we in fact have volumes synergies that we can offer our suppliers we are going out and doing that.
We are looking at a lot of low-cost country moves in our supply chain.
I would say historically we probably averaged 2% or 3% variable cost productivity.
In the last year or two we are probably twice that.
We would like to get even a little bit more we just completed the summit of our global supply chain teams in all of our businesses especially in this FX environment that we are in.
We have got to leverage these costs.
Frankly in some way our supply chain is a little bit too high cost country base so we have got some opportunity there and are going after it very hard.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jason Wittes from Brean Capital.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the questions.
First I wanted to get a tally on proton I know there is 11 orders and backlog.
Can you give us a sense of how many orders out there or not accounted for yet in backlog but contracted for.
Maybe on top of that a general sense in terms of whether you think the pace that we have seen in the first half of this year or sort of continue into the second half of the calendar year in terms of the proton wins that you have been seeing? I will take the first part of that question.
That is the easy part.
I will get the - There is only two deals Jason that are off the street if you will but that we had not put into backlog.
Those are both subject to financing and that is Emory which is a developer projects and University of Texas South west also a developer projects subject to financing.
Those were both in the $50 million to $60 million range? Emory is a little bigger.
…right between there and Emory is a little bit north of that.
Yes.
Okay.
I would say in terms of the market we are seeing two things.
One outside of the U.S.
we are seeing very good activity.
You kind of see that in the backlog.
I mean the most recent deals nice win in Denmark nice win in Holland two nice win in the U.K.
I think we are still seeing very good market.
Outside of the U.S.
we are starting to see a fair amount of activity in China so that part of the market is robust.
I think that how the U.S.
market is changing and the historically it has been just kind of multiple vault center and I think we are seeing U.S.
market shift to a one and two room center market.
We have a fair amount of activity going on there to see this market whether there single vaults two vaults or five vaults it is still slow from conversation to purchase order.
I think the forecast what that is going to be like it is pretty tough but I will say that we feel pretty good about the funnel in terms of the many conversations that are going on out there in the market.
You are competing on the one to two room right now or? Absolutely.
Okay.
Yes.
We launched about a year ago our ProBeam Compact and it is a terrific product with probably the highest throughput of anybody in a single room market were a little bit more expensive but what you get for that is no compromise in the quality of treatment and extremely high throughput.
Okay.
That is helpful.
I just wanted to ask you a quick follow-up to Elisha on the guidance.
If I look at the top-line numbers that you are giving out now I think you are saying 2%.
That is with now $87 million I assume from Maryland 80% which I think saw this quarter.
It looks like you are going from saying 1% to 2% to 2% which means there is about a 1% loss of growth in the core business.
Can you kind of reconcile where that wealth came from? In addition assuming you get $0.22 plus from the Maryland facility it looks like we lose about a dime net-net if we look at the bottom-line guidance.
Again is that all imaging or is that a combination of imaging and oncology.
Just I would like to kind of understand the moving pieces little better? Yes.
Let me take that second part and go through kind of a guidance walk for fiscal year '15.
As at the last time we guided the net point was 408 you then add in the Maryland Proton deal at $0.22 you get to 430.
We have about a $10 million pre-tax Q4 issue in our Imaging Components business largely in SIP but in flat panel as well so that is where you loss that $0.07 if you will to get back to the 423.
Then of course moving to non-GAAP we can add about $0.16 to that $1 to get to the new mid-point of 439.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Sorry to interrupt.
That is okay.
Then of course because we have only quarter left we narrowed the range from where we were previously and because FX at least for the moment seems to have kind of settled down in that 109 to 110 range on the euro.
In terms of revenue I should just say for total company we have spent a lot time in the last quarter or two getting much more detail on our constant currency reporting.
For fiscal year '15 the year-over-year impact to revenue is about $125 million so it was huge just given the 20% decline in the euro and the yen.
Yes we did come off from early on the oncology number.
We have got oncology in for the full-year at about 1% in dollars that we would clearly be mid-single digits if it were in constant currency.
The bulk of we are continuing to see some declines is in our Imaging Components business and we did have to come off the revenue number a little bit in Q4 for that.
Then you are right the proton business now will be closer to around $140 million which gets you to total company about 2% in dollars.
Okay.
Just one quick follow-up for that and that is it looks like that Imaging business declined further from the last quarter which I think was somewhat anticipated but do you have a sense of that is the normalized number that we are looking at now or should we anticipate further declines in that business for the next couple of quarters? Yes.
I mean as I said in the script I think we have got some we talked about SIP.
We think it is going to remain down for a while just where that market is oil prices.
75% of that business is outside of the U.S.
and a huge chunk of that is in the Middle East and they are just not just buying so I do not see the SIP portion of this rebounding as Elisha said year-over-year.
It is down about $35 million.
Then in flat panel we are seeing some pricing pressure.
I think that is kind of how we see FX.
It is one way of how are seeing FX in that business and we are seeing customers move their mix down market a little bit with the pricing environment that is out there and specking lower capability lower priced product.
I think we have probably got a year of challenge in that business.
Clearly we will give you more guidance on that as we get to next quarter.
Of course Jason I do not know if you missed but the Claymount and MeVis acquisitions will help offset that somewhere around $50 million of revenue on a combined basis.
Okay.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
We have time for one last question.
Our last question comes from Toby Wann from Obsidian Research Group.
Hey good evening guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just kind of a quick update on how things are progressing customer acceptance and uptake on RapidPlan as well as EDGE? RaipdPlan it can go fast enough.
We love it our customers love it.
We have got a lot of installations planned for this next quarter.
We are expanding the capabilities that the product has.
I forgot to list it in the list of the exciting software activities that we have got going on across the business but it is probably the single biggest driver that we have in the business right now and that is really good.
We do have a significant release coming out of engineering early in August so we have got lots of customers lined up to take that release.
Just as a reminder for everybody on the call the kind of efficiency and productivity we are seeing is 60 minutes to 90 minutes per plan and that is huge for our customers and we are not talking about the quality piece of that so it is at a minimum 6 to 90 minutes faster and we really believe as we have measured this in some places at some institutions but we want to measure at more broadly as we get the product out there.
We think that there will be a very significant quality improvement as well.
Our vision behind this product is why cannot every planner in the world be as good as our best planner and that is kind of where we are going with the product.
Anyway I think fourth quarter would be an exciting quarter for us with lots of installations coming and with a little bit more of a clinical report for you next quarter.
On EDGE to the second part of your question one of the things that we are seeing that we really like is we are having conversations and the galvanized market is a replacement market.
Let us just start with that and what we are seeing is more and more of those customers as they come to a source refresh or our replacement decision there having a Linac-based conversation with us.
We know in stereotactic radiosurgery the product is as good and then on top of that you get the capability for doing lung and liver so the economics are wonderful so we are having more and more action in that market so we like to EDGE products position a lot and the see the momentum is growing and one of the places that we are seeing it grow is in this galvanized [ph] take out market.
Okay.
Thank you.
That is helpful.
Then just a quick one on pricing people still behaving rationally or just kind of an update there on the oncology side.
I would say that the market is just crazy as ever.
We are certainly not seeing any - I think the way the question - someone just asked have we seen any change and I would say no.
That is kind of the same pricing market that we have had for a while.
Clearly our competitors had a leadership change and they have lost some share so we continue to see them being aggressive.
Things like EDGE and the things that we are doing at the top end of our product line are helping some of the places we have price pressure and I would say kind of overall while it is aggressive we have kind of maintained from the last quarter.
Okay.
Then just quickly thoughts about more macro-oriented thoughts on China you guys have put up some pretty phenomenal numbers there this quarter and we keep hearing that the Chinese economy is it going off the cliff chicken little just kind of some thoughts there maybe to dispel some of the rumors out there? Thanks for the question.
I was just there and I do not see it stopping.
Here is my macroeconomic indicator of the week.
Like 3 miles from the airport to the airport hotel I counted 39 trains.
That is probably more trains than California [ph] and it is just when we had this users meeting over there we had 500 customers and we have grown double-digit now there many quarters in a row.
Speaking of EDGE we sold to EDGE systems in China in the third quarter.
Some of the conversations we have not had in China before we are having now which are around software and protons.
I mean I read the paper and read about some of the macroeconomic but certainly as it comes to healthcare in our business in particular we are not seeing at all.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call back over to Spencer Sias for closing comments.
Thank you very much.
Thanks all for participating.
A replay of this call can be heard on the Varian Investor website at www.varian.com/investor where it will be archived for a year.
To hear a telephone replay pleased dial 1-877-660-6853 from inside the U.S.
or 201-612-7415 from outside the U.S.
and entering confirmation code 13613043.
The telephone replay will be available through 5 pm starting July 31<sup>st</sup>.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This does concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your line at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Varian Medical Systems Inc.
Fourth Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Spencer Sias Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications for Varian Medical Systems.
Thank you sir you may begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and welcome to Varian Medical Systems' conference call for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015.
With me are Dow Wilson President and CEO; Elisha Finney CFO and Clarence Verhoef our Corporate Controller.
Dow and Elisha will summarize our results and we will take your questions following the presentation.
To simplify our discussion unless otherwise stated all references to the quarter or year are fiscal quarters and fiscal years.
Quarterly comparisons are for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 versus the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014 references to financial results for orders are to gross orders unless otherwise indicated.
Beginning this quarter the company is recording non-GAAP results in order to provide quarter-over-quarter comparisons of operational performance excluding unusual items.
Our reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measure is included in our earnings release which can be accessed on our website.
Please be advised in this presentation and discussion contains forward-looking statements.
Our use of words and phrases such as outlook believe expect anticipate could should will promising and similar expressions are intended to identify those statements which represent our current judgment on future performance or other future matters.
While we believe them to be reasonable based on information currently available to us these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of the important risks relating to our business are described in our fourth quarter earnings release and in our filings with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements in this presentation and discussion because of new information future events or otherwise.
Before turning it over to Dow let me advise you that given our investor meeting at ASTRO last week as well as the information we'll be providing on this call we're cancelling our year-end meeting that was scheduled to take place in New York next week.
And now here is Dow.
Good afternoon and welcome.
As you will have seen from the pre-release that we issued ahead of our investor meeting at ASTRO last week the fourth quarter was marked by some earnings challenges as well as orders successes in two of our three businesses.
In summary we are reporting non-GAAP net earnings of $1.04 per diluted share up from $1.03 in the year ago quarter revenues of $818 million up 1% in dollars and 6% in constant currency oncology gross order growth of 5% in constant currency orders totaling more than $135 million for three proton therapy systems and significant declines in orders and revenues for our Imaging Components business.
Focusing on operational highlights in our oncology business gross orders totaled $919 million for the quarter equal in dollars and up 5% in constant currency versus the strong year ago quarter.
Orders for the fiscal year totaled $2.7 billion equal with the prior year but up 6% in constant currency in line with our long-term mid single-digit growth expectations for this business.
Orders in the Americas for the quarter declined by 5% in dollars in constant currency versus the year ago period when we booked the large part of the Brazil tender.
For the year orders in the Americas were up 1% in dollars in constant currency.
In North America orders grew by 4% in the quarter and 3% for the year.
In EMEA orders grew 13% in dollars and a robust 25% in constant currency during the quarter.
For the year orders in EMEA were even with the year ago period in dollars and up 12% in constant currency.
Gross orders in APAC were down by 3% in dollars but up 6% in constant currency for the quarter.
Annual APAC orders were even with the prior year in dollars and up 9% in constant currency.
We gained share against the competition in all three regions of the world for the year.
Our team in EMEA set a record by booking orders for over 100 accelerators with strength across the region.
In the U.K.
the National Health Service selected Varian to supply up to 20 TrueBeam systems.
In Poland we booked orders to supply 11 public radiotherapy centers with TrueBeam systems and software replacing the older Siemens systems.
In India we booked the first tranche of a five-year 18 accelerator order including an EDGE radiosurgery system.
We will book the remaining tranches when their delivery dates come within our two-year booking window.
In APAC a customer in Japan placed an order for three TrueBeam systems together with our new RapidPlan and InSightive Analytics software products.
In North America our oncology team had several nice wins from customers including Memorial Sloan Kettering Alliance Oncology and Cleveland Clinic.
Competitive takeouts added to our orders for the quarter and for the year.
In North America alone we estimate that we generated over $150 million in orders during the year to replace hardware and software products from our competitors.
Over 40 sites switched from other suppliers to our Eclipse treatment planning software during the year.
As you know we have just returned from ASTRO in San Antonio.
It was a great show for us with terrific customer response to our exhibit.
Our booth was the busiest of the show and we had over 800 attendees at our users meeting.
During the show we provided a glimpse of the next big breakthrough high definition radiotherapy and radiosurgery.
This is a new 4 Pi technique that will compress more dose into the tumor while protecting much more of the surrounding healthy tissue.
Clinicians working with TrueBeam's unique developer mode are using simultaneous motions of the treatment gantry and patient couch to get a huge increase in the number of beam angles available for targeting the tumor.
High definition radiotherapy is under trial at UCLA and is not yet ready for broad commercialization.
So we expect that high definition treatments coupled with our multi-modality imaging capabilities at the treatment console will make a much bigger gain in the fight against cancer than is possible with an expensive hybrid device combining MR imaging and limited treatment delivery.
And we also generated a lot of excitement in our booth at ASTRO.
Varian's industry leading RapidPlan software which has already been ordered at over 300 sites was the hit of the show.
As we pointed out at our investor meeting there numerous independent clinical studies show impressive time savings and quality that is equal to or better than plans generated manually.
At the University of Michigan RapidPlan has enabled complex spine SBRT plans to be generated in 15 to 20 minutes instead of the usual 60 to 90 minutes.
At the Royal Surry Hospital in the U.K.
the use of RapidPlan reduced treatment planning time by a factor of five and resulted in plans that were deemed equivalent or better 90% of the time.
With RapidPlan a dosimetrist can help five times as many patients as could be done with conventional planning products.
This is a product that could help new centers in emerging markets get up to speed with high quality planning very quickly.
There are nearly 4 000 cancers centers worldwide using our Eclipse treatment planning software and each of these is a potential candidate for RapidPlan.
So we expect it to help drive significant growth in software sales.
We've developed RapidPlan disease site models for a number of cancers including prostate head and neck and lung and there are more to come.
To strengthen our treatment planning offerings we acquired HyperDrive software technology during the quarter to improve the quality of prescriptions and accelerate the planning process.
Our new VitalBeam product received FDA 510(k) and CE Mark approvals during the quarter.
We've received several VitalBeam orders and early signs are this affordable extension of the TrueBeam platform will be a winner particularly in emerging markets.
TrueBeam now comprises more than 70% of our global accelerator orders and 90% of our accelerator orders in the U.S.
Before I leave Oncology Systems I want to draw your attention to a groundbreaking study issued by the Lancet Oncology Commission highlighting the global need for more radiotherapy equipment.
According to this report by 2035 there will be 25 million new cases of cancer diagnosed annually and we will need to supply the world with more than 20 000 new machines to equip new centers as well as replace aging infrastructure.
The need is greatest in low and middle income countries.
The report is recommending that by 2020 80% of these countries should establish national cancer plans and make radiotherapy part of their universal health coverage.
Over the next 10 years the commission recommends investing $46 billion in these countries to expand radiotherapy capacity.
This will require education and training of thousands of doctors physicists and therapists.
Varian has established a market development team that is partnering with governments financiers clinicians [audio gap] and patient advocacy groups to support this effort.
Let me now turn to proton therapy which drew a lot of customer attention at ASTRO.
We have real momentum in this business.
In the fourth quarter we booked more than $135 million in orders for three multi-room systems including two in the U.K.
and one in New York.
This brought the number of proton orders booked in the year to six systems totaling more than $300 million.
At this point we have 11 projects in backlog and we are currently working on more than six installations.
Treatments are expected to commence at the University of Maryland early next year which will bring the total number of centers treating patients with Varian proton technology to four.
The key to making the proton therapy business profitable are continued success in the market reducing product costs and scaling up the service business.
We feel like we have momentum in these areas.
Let me now turn to imaging components where orders shrank by 30% to $165 million for the quarter resulting in a full year orders decline of 16% for this business.
This was another challenging quarter in an exceedingly tough year particularly in our security and inspection business.
Orders for panels were down for the quarter and for the year driven primarily by price.
Unit volumes for these products were up slightly from the prior year.
Our imaging components' competitors are largely European and Japanese and they got about a 20% reduction in their cost structure due to foreign exchange movements.
They're using this to grab market share.
Customers are looking for lower priced alternatives including insourcing.
In fact one customer has elected to insource and the impacts of this loss in fiscal year 2016 will be about $50 million of revenue.
The security and inspection products business was also down sharply with annual orders off versus the previous year by about $60 million representing a decline of more than 55%.
The security business remains profitable and we're looking at a lot of options for getting the business back on track.
To address the ongoing challenges for the overall business we have initiated numerous corrective actions to make our product lines and operations more cost competitive.
These include a restructuring to right size the business accelerating product developments including our new low cost flat panel and stepping up marketing efforts particularly in Asia.
We are opening a facility near Shanghai to support a rapidly expanding X-ray equipment manufacturing industry in China.
On a positive note we feel very good about two new acquisitions we have made to complement our Imaging Components business MeVis and Claymount.
In fiscal year 2016 we're looking for about $50 million of revenues from these products and they are both off to a good start.
Now I'll turn it over to Elisha.
Thanks Dow and hello everyone.
Before I walk you through the P&amp;L let me touch on the backlogs.
The company ended the fiscal year with a $3.5 billion backlog up 10% from the year ago period.
Backlog adjustments during the year totaled 215 million with approximately 50 million of that related to currency exchange rates.
Just to clarify my P&amp;L walk is on a non-GAAP basis.
The GAAP versus non-GAAP reconciliation can be found in our press release.
In summary fiscal year GAAP operating earnings were approximately 27 million lower than non-GAAP earnings due to restructuring amortization of intangible assets acquisition related costs and certain litigation costs.
Also for comparison purposes we have provided in the press release a GAAP versus non-GAAP reconciliation for 2014 and 2015 by quarter.
Before I walk you through the numbers let me just say that exchange rates wreaked havoc on our 2015 results.
We estimate that on a constant currency basis our reported results would've improved as follows.
Orders would've been up by about 175 million.
Revenues would've been up by about 140 million and on the earnings front our operating margin would've been about one point higher.
Let me point out that this FX impact was felt primarily in Oncology Systems.
On top of this as Dow explained currency driven price erosion had a huge impact on our imaging components business and that effect is incremental to the numbers that I just gave you.
Now turning to the P&amp;L third quarter revenues for the total company increased 1% in dollars and increased 6% in constant currency.
Total company revenues in the Americas were down 1% in dollars and flat in constant currency.
EMEA revenues were up 5% in dollars but up 18% in constant currency.
And APAC revenues were down 2% in dollars and up 5% in constant currency.
For the year total company revenues were up 2% in dollars and up 6% in constant currency.
Oncology Systems posted a 2% increase in revenues during the quarter up 9% in constant currency.
And for the year oncology revenues were flat with the year ago period in dollars and up 6% in constant currency.
Imaging components posted a fourth quarter revenue decline of 8% with a 5% increase in X-ray tubes flat revenues in panel products and a 57% decline in our securities and inspection products.
For the year imaging components revenues were down 7% from the year ago period with tubes down 1% flat panels down 4% and security products down 37%.
Revenues for the other category increase from the year ago quarter as we continue production and installation of several proton projects that are in our backlog.
Total company gross margin fell by nearly three points to 38.9% for the quarter and by more than a point to 41.4% for the year.
Currency exchange rates price erosion in imaging components and a higher mix of lower margin proton revenue led to these declines.
Oncology Systems gross margin decreased more than two points in the quarter and nearly one point for the year due almost entirely to currency exchange rates.
Given the ongoing strength of the dollar we believe Oncology's growth margin will remain at about 43% for 2016.
The imaging components gross margin for the quarter fell by nearly five percentage points to 38.9% due largely to pricing and mix.
For the year imaging components' gross margin decreased by more than a point to 41% also due to pricing and mix.
Given the pricing pressures we are experiencing the 2016 gross margins for this business is likely to remain in the high 30s.
Fourth quarter SG&amp;A expenses were about 15% of revenues down almost a point as a percentage of revenues from the year ago quarter.
For the year SG&amp;A expenses were about even with the year ago period at 15% of revenue.
Fourth quarter R&amp;D expenses were 69 million or 8% of revenues up about one point as a percentage of revenue with the year ago quarter.
And for the year R&amp;D expenses were about even as a percentage of revenue at 8%.
Moving down to income statement fourth quarter operating earnings totaled 135 million or 17% of revenues.
For the year operating earnings totaled 576 million or 18.6% of revenues.
On a constant currency basis the operating margin was approximately one point higher.
Depreciation and amortization totaled 19 million for the quarter and 69 million for the year.
The effective tax rate was 25% for the quarter and 26% for the year.
Both down significantly from the prior period due to geographic mix of products the use of German tax loss carryforwards and the unusually high 2014 rate.
Fully diluted shares outstanding decreased from the year ago quarter to 99 million shares due largely to our ongoing share repurchase program.
The diluted non-GAAP EPS was $1.04 for the fourth quarter and $4.29 for the fiscal year.
The strong U.S.
dollar negatively impacted our non-GAAP EPS by approximately $0.15 in the fourth quarter and approximately $0.40 for the fiscal year.
Turning to the balance sheet we ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of 845 million debt at 496 million and stockholders' equity of 1.7 billion.
DSO at 90 [ph] was up five days from the year ago quarter.
Cash flow from operations was 153 million for the quarter and 470 million for the fiscal year.
The primary uses of cash during the quarter were 128 million towards the repurchase of 1.5 million shares of stock.
At the end of the quarter we had 1.4 million shares remaining under the existing repurchase authorization that extends from calendar year 2015.
Now I'll turn it back to Dow for the outlook.
Thanks Elisha.
We believe that for our fiscal year 2016 total company non-GAAP earnings will be in the range of $4.45 to $4.55 per diluted share and revenues were increased by about 4% to 5% on a reported basis versus fiscal year 2015.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2016 we expect revenues to be roughly even with the year ago quarter and dollars.
With ongoing challenges experienced by Imaging Components in the second half of fiscal year 2015 as well as the effect of year-over-year changes in currency exchange rates we expect non-GAAP earnings for the first quarter of fiscal year 2016 to be in the range of $0.88 to $0.92 per diluted share.
In summary we believe that Oncology Systems is on the right track with continued steady profitable growth and that we have real momentum in our Particle Therapy business.
We are focusing now on getting Imaging Components back on track.
We are now ready for your questions.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Vijay Kumar with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys.
Thank you for taking my question.
Dow maybe first one I think you had some interesting commentary on the overall market in terms of the spectacular market share gains you guys have been seeing right? I guess my question is ex the market share gains what is the underlying radiotherapy market growing within North America right? So I am just trying to get a sense in how long should we think about these sustained market share gains sort of going forward? Yes.
I think on the quarter what we saw in the Americas the Americas was up – I am sorry the Americas in total was down 5% North America was up 4% Latin America was down very significantly as you'll recall in the fourth quarter of 2014 we booked a large portion of the Brazil order.
So when you kind of peel the onion on it we were very comfortable with where we saw the U.S.
market at in the fourth quarter and all year that was kind of – we did gain from shares or maybe half of the increment is share gain and half is market growth and also markets probably in 3%-ish range and we were coming in at 5%-6% constant currency adjusted range.
I think as you saw at ASTRO we are very comfortable with our product portfolio and the position we have across the product line.
I think it's strong as our product line has ever been.
And we are very encouraged by the reception we had at ASTRO.
So going into ASTRO I have already said – and maybe we can maintain share after a pretty good share gain but coming out of ASTRO we're more bullish than ever.
So until we get a 100% we are going to keep going after some more share gain.
That was helpful.
And maybe one on EPS guidance Elisha so I know that the guidance excludes $0.50 of potential contribution from Emory right? So I know last year when you gave the guidance you had a similar issue with Maryland right? And I think at that point installation was complete.
It was just a question of financing being in place.
Can you walk us through what are the sensitivities around the Emory recognition for this? Is this in a similar place or you've installed that it's just a question of getting the financing in place? Thank you.
Yes.
Let me make a comment and Elisha can then add some color on the accounting.
We have not shipped Emory yet.
So that's very different than our position at Maryland.
The building is nearly ready for installation and the banks are working on financing.
Now Elisha can talk to the guidance impact.
Sure.
And the reason it won't be quite as material as Maryland because with Maryland we were much further along because we had actually shipped and begun the installation.
So under the percentage of completion we anticipate depending on when this financing if and when it gets completed but it could be as much as $0.15.
The other impact in the guidance this year versus last year is also we are continuing to have some FX impact in our first half and that's really concentrated in Q1 because the FX rates really didn't change that much until we got into our second quarter last year.
So we are facing a Q1 headwind on FX.
That should start to stabilize as we get further into the fiscal year and we anticipate about $0.15 on the full fiscal year '16.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everybody.
Hi David.
How are you doing? Hey Elisha.
I know you gave a lot of detail with respect to the individual business operating lines on the call but maybe Elisha you can help us maybe about the bridge from the first quarter earnings guidance through the balance of the year particularly in light of the commentary that I think one of the explanations for the fourth quarter shortfall was a slippage of recognition revenue from Q4 into fiscal '16 and maybe just help us bridge the Q1 to the full year.
Sure.
So the full year remains as we talked about last week it is a 445 to 455.
For Q1 if I take that $0.90 at the [audio gap] of that $0.10 push out of Q4 and when you add that back you'll see kind of that mid single-digit if you were to do all of that math mid single-digit EPS growth on an apples-to-apples basis.
And I went back and look historically Q1 has always been right around 20% to 22% of our total year.
That's exactly what this Q1 is.
I think last year was bit of an anomaly where our Q1 given an unrealistic gross margin we had in oncology it was a good thing that quarter but it ended up being closer to 25% of our total fiscal year.
So it gives me confidence that we are kind of in that historical range at about 20% of our year.
Okay.
And then maybe just coming back to the Imaging Component and Dow you talked about reinvesting to try to get the business back on track.
At what point do you start thinking about other strategic alternatives for that franchise particularly given some of the pressure that you've described sound more sort of structural in nature rather than cyclical? Yes.
Clearly we are going to watch where the price goes this year.
Historically it's been a terrific business for us with very good growth and companywide best operating profit and cash generation has also been very good.
So we still love the flat panel and tube part of the business.
The security part of the business is very profitable.
The profitability of that business hasn't changed but it's very cyclical and we get some big turns there.
We like the fact that we're the leader in digital imaging technology.
And so we've got both a strong product portfolio as well as scale in the business.
And there are synergies with our oncology business.
The oncology is the second largest customer of that business.
About 10%-12% of the product cost of our oncology business comes from our components business; over 1500 tubes and panels a year.
So there is some vertical integration that we look at.
I think what's happened is this business experienced the FX change in a different way than the rest of the world experiencing it.
Since more than 75% of the business is outside of the U.S.
and largely Japan and Europe and since it's almost entirely denominated in dollars there was no FX constant currency adjustment to make into the business.
And so the way that was felt was in pricing as I said in the script.
So clearly that's what we are going to be watching where this business goes.
But we had one customer insource as I said on the call and we've been through the rest of our pipeline.
We have got contracts with everybody else.
We feel like the rest of the business is secure.
We are working very hard on some new products that will drive some feature and benefit.
They have a full chance to hit the price as well as give us some cost reduction.
And you've seen some acquisitions from us in this space this year.
Those acquisitions are enhancing the portfolio giving us some scale and they are executing ahead of our internal plans by a little bit.
They are 150 [ph] million together Claymount and MeVis.
So it's not huge but we like what they are doing for us.
And I think the key for us to watch here in 2016 is where does this price go? It's pretty stable in the dynamic sections of the market.
In the radiographic piece of the market there is a lot of competitors there is need for some consolidation in this market and we are going to watching that over 2016.
Okay terrific.
Thank you for all the perspective.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Wittes with Brean Capital.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
Listen clearly the oncology business is trending along very nicely.
I think a lot of investors are obviously a little bit concerned about what's going on with the visibility on imaging and I appreciate there has already been a few questions on this.
But if you could just walk us through how you got to your assumptions for this year in terms of how you think this bad market will grow.
You said there is about $50 million of revenues that are going away this year.
I know you mentioned currency.
I imagine there is some acquisition in there but what other issues might drop and what else is baked into the assumptions that you put out there? I mean the pricing assumptions we kind of let's go through we do have this one of our large customers coming out that's worth about $50 million.
I think Elisha can comment on margin rate.
We do have the two acquisitions that are positive 50 million of revenue for us and I think at a high level those are the assumptions we're looking at.
Yes.
I think one difference this year versus last year Jason is when we had our security business fall off 56% in one year that was unprecedented and frankly a surprise to all of us.
That business today – I don't think we can go a whole lot lower because half of it today is service.
So I just don't think you are going to see the steep decline that we experienced last year in SIP.
If you just look at tubes and panels last year how many orders they were down in the single-digit on a combined basis.
So I think we could have weathered a good bit of that but when our highest margin product line fell more than 50% that was just something that was hard to get over.
And maybe we did say the business would be flat a few percent.
So that's kind of – with the acquisitions in and out that's kind of what we're looking at the high level.
And the other thing that I mentioned in the script that we probably ought to highlight as well is that we have done a restricting in the business taking out about 10%-ish the headcount in the business.
Okay.
And my understanding is that flat panels is clearly where there is a large increase in competition what percentage of the imaging business is flat panel at this point? It's about 50-50 flat panel and tubes.
Yes… And the last one on security – thank you.
And the last question on security I know that the price of oil has impacted that business.
In your understanding how that business might shape up in 2015 or something is not right now? We had forecasted it flat so no improvement.
It is lumpy.
So maybe there is a blue bird that happens in the year but we have not forecasted.
Markets remain – I mean most of this business is in oil-based economies.
We've seen very little tender action.
So with the visibility we have is that there will be no improvement in that segment of the business in 2016.
Coming back to the earlier question this is the place that we will at a high level look at strategic options.
Very good thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Beuchaw with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi.
Good afternoon and thanks for taking… Hi Steve.
Hey Dow I would like to follow-up on the commentary you made early about your reflections on ASTRO.
You talked about the durability of share gain I wonder if you could just spend another minute on it.
What is that that you think in 2016 has the company still well positioned? Is it more about software or is it more about distribution? What do you think in '16 the key to the share gain storyline? I mean I think our strongest point at ASTRO was our treatment planning product RapidPlan.
You have to be able to plan the treatment and there is nobody that does that better than we do.
The efficiency – I think for me the most exciting part about ASTRO was to see these papers coming out documenting what we marketed the year before.
So we launched this last year.
We felt very good about it.
But to see these papers that I mentioned in the script come out documenting both the efficiency improvement as well as the quality improvement have been dynamite and that's a big deal.
Second as we go into an environment that's uncertain from a reimbursement point of view total cost to ownership is everything and Varian advantage there is – there is nobody close to us with that.
There will be some niche products out there that probably get some play in some segments but I think people are still going to be looking at value for money and how to stretch their capital dollars.
I think the strength of our product line from top to bottom on the hardware side is very good.
And then our software products are as good as ever.
People really responded well to the insight of analytics and some of the population informatics – population health and informatics tools that we have.
And then coming back to where I started is I think our treatment planning is dynamite.
That's how the treatment planning process starts.
And given the advantages we have on the hardware side to be able to take advantage of it you have to have a great treatment planning product and that's what we do that nobody else is even close to.
And then maybe dovetailing with that lot of commentary I wonder if you could talk about VitalBeam and how you see VitalBeam playing overall in the portfolio? You kind of little bit further than I originally anticipated in terms of geographic product registrations on VitalBeam where do you see that's sitting in the portfolio over the next year or two? I mean it's a product that we think of is great for emerging markets and is really going to help us expand the market.
It's an entry point for value markets and a chance to sell up.
One of the truly important roles in the portfolio is to price protect the high-end of the product line in those markets and it's doing that very well and we really like what we've seen.
We have seen good price stability on the TrueBeam as VitalBeam is coming into these markets.
And we're starting to get some pretty good uptick on product.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Tycho Peterson with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey thanks.
Dow can you maybe just add a little bit more on the TrueBeam delays? I understand a lot of those have already come through but I guess if we think about some of the larger deals longer term deals you are signing you had one back in 2Q you called out should we expect maybe a little more lumpiness in order shipment? I'll say first of all that none of the delays had to do with a large order.
These were all one-offs.
So while – I am not going to deny the consolidation of the market on the revenue side of the business that we haven't seen any impact related to a consolidating market for our revenue.
This is about site readiness and acceptance testing and getting all the documentations on and kind of punching it through.
I think as we said we have $25 million in TrueBeam and related software slip out of the quarter and those were all one at a time and each one was very painful.
Okay.
Are there lessons learned from your perspective around understanding customers better or… A lot of lessons learned that – so we have looked at both some of the process things we do and we have made some pretty significant changes in our organization since the quarter to make sure that we are strengthening it and enhancing it so that this doesn't happen again.
Okay.
And then outside the U.S.
EMEA big quarter maybe just talk to the sustainability of trends and other things that we should be keeping an eye on in some of the emerging markets that could maybe mix or some quarter-to-quarter volatility? EMEA had a terrific quarter.
So we really liked what we saw there.
It was broad based.
In the script you heard me mention the U.K.
Poland and India.
So that was very good.
I would say that on an ongoing basis there still is very significant opportunity in India and we talked about Africa in the past.
I would say in 2015 Africa was quiet-ish and so there is a lot of – I would say the pipeline there looks pretty good so maybe we'll see that market come back.
There's still a lot in Eastern Europe.
I'd say the funnel looks pretty good in Eastern Europe.
The core markets of the Middle East were pretty good in 2014 a little quieter in 2015.
I think the funnel there looks pretty good in 2016.
China it's still hanging in there.
I mean it's not – if we were growing close to 20-ish % in – fell 13 14s – last year it was lower than that for sure.
But we're not seeing a tank by any stretch.
So it's probably in the five to 10 range.
Okay.
And then last one on HDRT it's still years away but can you maybe help us think a little bit about the development costs.
How should we think about R&amp;D trending over the next couple of years? I know it was up kind of 1% here this quarter but how do we think about this on a go-forward basis? That's one operating expense Tycho.
I think you should just accept we will be about equal at the percentage of revenues.
So we did a step-up to I think it was years ago from 7% to 8%.
You should anticipate it should be roughly 8%.
If we get a bolus of proton orders or sales in any given quarter it'll be a little lower but all else equal about 8% of revenue.
Yes I think one of the things that really resonated with our customers at ASTRO was the overarching vision that we had around it.
There wasn't product as that relates to products and ref wreck and income statement things there's a variety of things that come this year.
There are some things that'll come in '17 and a few things that'll come even after that.
For example this idea of any image you take you wanted the treatment console to help drive a hypofractionated treatment.
We can do a lot of that with our Velocity product today.
So part of the vision we think we'll get some update by the way with our Velocity product.
We've seen a very good reception to that product since we acquired it 18 months ago or so.
And it's made a nice role for itself in the product portfolio and in the family.
The image quality improvement for cone beam CT we should see in the next year-ish.
And I think people are very excited about that.
And then the first phase of the 4 Pi we can actually do no existing hardware.
So we're not going to have to introduce – and we've heard the stock since 2010 on the strength of the TrueBeam platform and the amazing capabilities and especially the speed of those capabilities.
These are all things that we designed in from the beginning.
There is software work to be done but a lot of this can be leveraged on – most of it can be leveraged on the existing hardware platform.
So that's the other thing is it'll be a software capability that we can take back to our now 1200-ish units TrueBeam installed based.
Understood thank you.
And I should say this that none of this stuff is a pipedream.
A lot of this being already worked in the developer mode by our research customers worldwide.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Petrone with Jefferies.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks and good afternoon.
Maybe a couple on proton and one strategy question for Dow.
Just on protons maybe you can give us a sense on the backlog for single-room systems and maybe what's reflected in fiscal '16 guidance? Would additional orders for the contact system actually increase to what you're putting out there for guidance? And then as you work out do you generally see and the noise out of ASTRO was that protons eventually could address 20% of the market needs.
Do you see that happening and if so over what timeframe? I'd say I mean for the first part of the question the answer is zero and zero.
So we have nothing in our backlog and we have nothing in our guidance because we're not going to put anything in the guidance that's not in our backlog.
We've learned that lesson as we've discussed already.
Let me clarify would you have 350 million of proton backlogs just… That's right.
Sorry thank you.
There was no single-rooms in our backlog.
Having said that we have a very active funnel of single-room systems and I'd be surprised if we didn't see one or a few of those land in 2016.
And as that happens we'll have some ref wreck upside maybe to report.
But we have not put any of those in the backlog.
As to what percent of cancer patients are indicated for proton therapy.
I think since the minute we've been in this business it was part of the first thing that we did is due diligence.
We thought the number would be somewhere between 10% and 20% of all cancer patients would be indicated for proton therapy.
So that number is consistent with what our assessment was in our due diligence getting in a few years ago.
And Anthony let me just clarify one thing.
Under this percentage of completion method in protons it's a little different in that we get to essentially recognize the revenue kind of linearly over the project.
So if we were to get a compact order in the year as soon as we specify equipment for a particular customer we buy parts we start putting it together and producing it.
We start revenue at that point.
So we don't have to wait until it's built and shipped before we get any revenue.
That's helpful.
And maybe just a strategy question in the follow-up is really on the timing of the shift to non-GAAP earnings from GAAP earnings.
It seems to follow the Claymount acquisition and I think that's valued at around EUR 52 million.
So it doesn't seem like a lot of intangible creation.
And so at the same time Dow you mentioned consolidation in imaging and the cash balance is approaching around a billion as of the quarter end.
So maybe just an update on the M&amp;A strategy is this sort of an indication that the company may be getting more acquisitive as time goes on? We did a few acquisitions last year.
We like them both a lot.
One is a pure software play MeVis computer aided diagnosis for both breast and lung cancer.
We think there's an opportunity given our distribution channel to leverage that product globally.
And we're seeing some very good development opportunities in the oncology business there with some of the image processing things that they do.
So that's encouraging.
Claymount is a little more hardware.
It's largely a cable and connector business.
It's very synergistic with our tube business.
It has the same customer [audio gap] factoring costs in the Philippines.
I think we – these are capabilities that we can leverage across the company.
In terms of our broader M&amp;A strategy I think it's the same.
We're always interested in things that we can do to strengthen our oncology business.
On the hardware side I don't see a lot there just because there's isn't much that's too close to us.
But on the software side and the infomatic side maybe there are some things.
And then we're going to continue to hunt as well the components base.
We think scale matters there as the industry consolidates.
It's been a rough year but we've had terrific growth in this business.
We've now – we believe that we're the largest manufacturer in the world of tubes and panels even given some of the insourcing that the big radiology companies do.
So we've got a strong strategic hand to play in that business.
And we like even despite some of the 2015 rocky roads that we've been through we like the cards that we have.
And think we've got a good strategic hand to play given our scale.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Johnson with Robert Baird.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you good afternoon guys.
Hi Jeff.
Hi Dow.
So let me start I guess with a couple just last final hopefully question on oncology here.
As we go into a new fiscal year these issues have been vetted in the past but maybe just an update as we look forward to year here.
One just any update on the manufacturing side of oncology as you push costs out closer to where some of your revenues are recognized.
I know you're going through the re-org in ICB but are there still opportunities to push manufacturing costs down on the oncology side number one.
And number two Colleen kind of alluded last week to some of those Brazil orders starting to come out into the P&amp;L or maybe it was Elisha sorry.
Last week those Brazilian orders starting to come out into the P&amp;L in '16.
How do we think about the gating at this point of those Brazil orders? Are we going to get a first bolus kind of in '16 and then a similar '17 similar '18 or is it going to build over the next few years? It's going to build Jeff.
So we've built in one to two handfuls of Brazil shipments in the second half of the year primarily.
So this is going to be something – it's going to take a number of years for this to all work through the P&amp;L and the margin.
Yes.
And then relative to your first question we are looking very hard at our supply chain in oncology.
I mean the cost in this business our actual labor content is very very small.
We do final assembly and test which testing is very very important.
You got to get that right.
We are pointing radiation at patients.
We want to make sure that's done in the highest-quality fashion.
So we always want to make sure that that part of the process is very robust.
Today I would say the vast majority of it's done here in Palo Alto we have some capability in China and we are building some capability in Brazil.
So China and Brazil will bring the cost per unit of that down but we are still very significant here in Palo Alto but the real cost opportunities on the supply chain side as we made very good progress on that in 2015 and that continues to be a focus area for us.
I am very pretty pleased with the variable cost productivity we are getting in oncology.
We're seeing at least mid single-digit kind of variable cost productivity in oncology.
All right.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
Then may be two follow-up questions on the proton business; one Elisha maybe can you talk about the gating of proton revenue and earnings recognition this year? Is it going to be pretty consistent on a quarterly basis throughout the year? Obviously as you get into the third quarter you have got to dig 23 – 22 23 bolus of Maryland hurt a little bit but Dow I think I remember at our healthcare conference you talked about the proton earnings contribution this year is probably going to be similar if not higher in '16 over '15.
So just trying to figure out how that gates out the model? Sure.
So the earnings contribution will be negative.
I know it's verbally pretty similar to what we saw in FY'15 and FY'16.
I am assuming that we are going to have roughly 20 million more proton revenue this year versus last year just given what we are delivering on in the backlog.
But remember the Maryland deal was pretty profitable because of the way it was a bolus of revenue and because it was a very large center.
So it should be about even with the year ago period in terms of the impact on the P&amp;L and of course the big wildcard being do we get Emory and do we get any compact that we can book that are currently not in the backlog? All right.
That's helpful.
And then last question on proton just with regards to the Emory deal does the UTSW issues that are happening down in Texas and bankruptcy filings down there and some legal hassling or legal wrangling I should say between kind of one of the donors there and then I think it's between him and ATP does that impact Emory at all? And what does that do to the longer term potential of UTSW? Sure.
So Jeff from my knowledge I mean these are all separate legal entities with separate investors and lenders and equity players and so one is insulated from the other.
So I do not believe that it's going to have a big impact on Emory.
I can tell you that we are still engaged with banks helping answer questions so that APT can in fact get their financing put together.
And longer term for UT Southwest I do know that UT Southwest has indicated they are very interested in still having a proton center.
And so hopefully this litigation will get worked out and we can go to work for them and get it installed.
But that's a ways off.
Yes fair enough.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Toby Wann with Obsidian Research Group.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
Quickly on the oncology side of the business can you maybe shed some light on the services side how that was during the quarter as well as the software side of the business? Yes.
I mean both were very strong in the quarter.
Services were hit from a currency point of view but constant currency basis it was right where we expected it would be 9%-10%.
Software is equally strong largely on the backs of RapidPlan.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we have no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Spencer Sias for closing remarks.
Thank you.
Thank you all for participating.
A replay of this call can be heard on the Varian Investor website www.varian.com/investor.
It will be archived there for a year.
To hear a telephone replay please dial 1-877-660-6853 from inside the U.S.
or 1-201-612-7415 from outside the U.S.
and enter confirmation code 13619357.
The telephone replay will be available through 5.00 p.m.
this Friday October 30th.
Thank you.