Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the C.R.
Bard Inc.
First Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference will be recorded and will be available for future on-demand replays through the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Todd C.
Schermerhorn Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information and the information under the caption Risk Factors each in Bard's 2010 10-K including disclosure of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance of the company and its individual product franchise.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings press release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of April 21 2011 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information.
Unless otherwise noted all comparisons are to the prior year period.
At this time I will turn the call over to Mr.
Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Chris.
Good afternoon everybody.
I'd like to welcome you all to Bard's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
We expect the presentation portion of this call to last about 35 minutes.
The agenda today will go as follows: I'll begin with an overview of the results for the first quarter; John Weiland our President and COO will review first quarter product line revenue; Todd Schermerhorn our Senior VP and CFO will review the first quarter income statement balance sheet as well as our expectations for the second quarter; John DeFord our Senior VP of Science Technology and Clinical Affairs will then provide an update on our product development pipeline and we'll finally close with Q&amp;A.
First quarter 2011 net sales totaled $700.3 million.
That's up 8% over Q1 of last year on both an as-reported basis and a constant currency basis.
The currency impact for the quarter versus 2010 was unfavorable by about 20 basis points.
Net income for the first quarter of '11 was $131.9 million.
Diluted EPS were $1.49.
Excluding items that affected the comparability of results between periods which Todd will cover later first quarter 2011 net income and diluted EPS were $133.7 million and $1.51 up 9% and 21% respectively which exceeded our guidance range for the quarter.
So obviously a good start to the year.
Todd will put this into perspective for you when he discusses the quarter's financial performance and our outlook for the second quarter.
Looking at our sales by business growth in our Vascular category was above the range of guidance for the full year but in line with our expectations for the quarter.
As a reminder the SenoRx acquisition occurred at the beginning of Q3 of last year so it will be a downward pressure on the growth rate during the second half of the year.
Our Oncology and Urology categories were within their full year guidance ranges.
Surgery was in line with our expectations for the quarter but below the full year guidance range as we expect our new product launches to accelerate growth as we go out through the year.
So if you just look at our sales results compared to the full year guidance ranges you'll see one business above one on the high side of the range one on the low side and one below.
And of course every business has a detailed story behind it that John's going to take you through in a moment.
But I just want to take a minute here using this quarter's performance to explain why we feel so strongly about the strategy.
First our product portfolio is broad and well balanced.
Then within each of the businesses our teams are relentlessly focused on product leadership and innovation and at the corporate level we work with the businesses to assess the opportunities make sure the appropriate resources are applied in the right places across the company.
Sounds fairly simple but of course the key is execution at every contact point throughout the sales and marketing operations regulatory R&amp;D and business development functions.
With shifting trends and lots of activity across multiple markets the results for a given product line or business are going to naturally ebb and flow over time and obviously we don't win every battle.
But when you add it all up and you measure the results over time you get combined results that reflect the balanced risk of the model the strength of the overall portfolio and the effectiveness of the strategy.
Looking at revenue growth from a geographic point of view compared to the first quarter of last year net sales in the U.S.
increased 7%; Europe we're up 4% on a constant currency basis driven by very strong execution on the SenoRx product line.
Japan grew 15% affected by uneven ordering patterns from our joint venture.
Most of the fluctuation had occurred prior to the earthquake and the tsunami in March and we saw very little impact in the quarter as the direct result of that catastrophe.
We track the demand from our joint venture to customers in Japan and Q1 2011 growth was in the mid-to high-single digits which is in line with the average performance we've seen over the last couple of years.
Our other international businesses grew 17% driven by 29% growth in our emerging markets.
On the business development front we made a relatively small acquisition this quarter of a technology in the PTA space.
We're not going to be providing any further detail at this point for competitive reasons.
Looking ahead we have a number of potential product and technology deals in our business development pipeline and our commitment to strategic acquisitions remains a very high priority.
Now let me turn the focus over to John Weiland for a review of our product line revenue.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start let me point out that I'll be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior year periods on a constant currency basis unless noted otherwise.
Let's begin with Vascular.
Growth in this category was 16% for the quarter matching the growth rate in Q4.
Total net sales were $198.3 million up 15% over last year on an as-reported basis.
Our U.S.
business was up 20% for the quarter.
Internationally we grew at 11%.
The SenoRx products are leading the charge here both in the United States and internationally.
Our Electrophysiology sales were down 1% for the quarter.
EP Lab Systems were down 27% demonstrating the volatility we often experience with the timing of these capital sales.
Revenue in our disposable EP product lines was up 4% led by our Steerable Diagnostic Catheters which were up 7%.
Sales in our Surgical Grab category were flat in the first quarter.
Our Endovascular business which represents 74% of Vascular sales increased 23% in the first quarter.
Within Endovascular our Biopsy products were up 62% fueled by the SenoRx products.
Even excluding the SenoRx products our Biopsy business grew in the mid-teens demonstrating the strength of that business coupled with the synergies we recognized from the acquisition.
The FINESSE vacuum-assisted biopsy device and our tissue marker lines saw very strong growth once again this quarter.
Sales in our peripheral PTA line increased 29% driven by our Chronic Total Occlusion or CTO product line.
In Q1 we launched the smaller diameter device we call the CROSSER S6 which is designed to deliver more power to even more calcified more distal lesions in the lower leg.
To supplement our offering in CTO we also introduced our Seeker Crossing Support Catheter last month at both the Society of Interventional Radiology Meeting in Chicago and more recently at the American College of Cardiology Meeting in New Orleans.
This product is a crossing support catheter with a novel marking system that enables physicians to cross tight stenosis or occlusions and easily measure the lesion length so that they know what size stent is required.
We have other recent and near-term launches in PTA that John DeFord will discuss in a few minutes.
Sales in our Vena Cava Filter line were down 28% in Q1 and accelerated decline in this already struggling product line.
As we've discussed the last couple of quarters we are seeing the impact of more selective use of filters following the FDA's recommendation concerning the risks and benefits of leaving the filter in place after protection from a pulmonary embolism is no longer required.
Our Stent business grew 7% again in Q1.
Within our bare-metal stent line LifeStent continued its run of solid double-digit growth.
And while we're seeing good LifeStent growth in emerging markets the results in the United States this quarter were up double digits sequentially as we remain the only approved SFA stent on the market.
As an example of our tuck-in acquisition strategy our success with the CROSSER line of products is driving incremental LifeStent sales as physicians cross CTO's and then seek a stent solution to support the reopened negative[ph]  Lumen.
Let's now turn to Urology.
Total net sales were $179.5 million up 3% versus the first quarter of last year on both a constant currency and an as-reported basis.
The United States business grew 1% while internationally we grew 9% driven by the ordering patterns Tim talked about in Japan.
While the overall performance was at the top of our full year guidance range we want to emphasize that based on the United States growing of 1% we have not seen any noticeable improvement in hospital volumes or procedures through the first quarter.
Our Basic Drainage business was up 4% in Q1 on the timing of those orders from Japan but our trends in the United States remain unchanged in this daily use product line.
Our I.C.
Foley business was up 3% globally but down 3% in the United States which is in line with recent experience here.
Our Continence business was down 5% in the first quarter consistent with our experience over the last five quarters.
In slings we saw double-digit growth this quarter driven by our single-incision sling AJUST which has been on the market in the United States for over a year now.
As sling technology has improved the marking for bulking agents has declined.
And as previously planned and included in our guidance assumptions Q1 marks the last full quarter of sales for our product in this space called Contigen.
So the next four quarters will have some headwind in the Continence comps from the discontinuation of this product.
Within Continence the growth of our DIGNICARE Fecal Management line has slowed to the single digits.
However we expect that trajectory to improve with the anticipated second quarter launch of our next generation fecal-management system called DIGNISHIELD.
DIGNISHIELD builds upon the patent pending cup design of DIGNICARE and incorporates a new odor barrier technology with new collection and containment systems to reduce the risk of cross contamination or leakage.
We expect this product to have a meaningful impact in the market.
We continue to see double-digit declines in our Pelvic Floor Repair line.
We are working with the FDA on our next generation of pelvic floor products and John DeFord will provide the update on those projects.
Sales in the Urological Specialties were down 3% driven by an 11% decline in brachytherapy consistent with recent experience.
Standalone sales of our STATLOCK Catheter Stabilization line increased 12% in the first quarter including 25% growth outside of the United States.
We've added new configurations again this quarter for stabilizing both the IVs and PICCs.
STATLOCK is a good example of our practice of acquiring a product line or technology and putting it in to our R&amp;D process where we focus on filling unmet clinical needs.
As we now pass our 5-year anniversary of that acquisition we continue to iterate and we're still seeing double-digit growth up against much lower value competitive devices.
Next we'll move on to Oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $186.4 million an increase of 7% over the first quarter last year on both the constant currency and an as-reported basis.
Geographically net sales in the United States were up 6%.
Outside the United States sales were up 8%.
Our Port business was up 7% versus Q1 last year with strong growth coming from emerging markets and winged infusion sets.
PICC revenue was also up 7% in the first quarter.
We're in the early stages of our Sapiens Tip Confirmation Systems launch.
We're very pleased with our progress to date and are right on track with our projections.
Our Vascular Access Ultrasound product line was up 13% this quarter.
We launched our new versatile Site-Rite Vision System in Q2 of last year so the comps get a little tougher starting next quarter.
And to finish off Oncology our Dialysis Catheter business grew 11% in Q1.
In February we expanded our offering with the launch of our EQUISTREAM XK dialysis split-tip catheter with the capability of very high flow rates and it's off to a good start.
Let's then finish up with our Surgical Specialties business.
Total net sales in this category were $114.9 million up 5% on a constant currency and as-reported basis.
U.S.
and international sales were both up 5% for the quarter.
This performance is in line with our expectations for the first quarter and we expect our new products to raise this growth profile in the coming quarters.
John DeFord will give us an update on those projects a little later.
Our Soft Tissue Repair business grew 10% this quarter.
Within Soft Tissue our natural tissue products were up 50%.
Our ALLOMAX Human Tissue line continued its strong growth particularly in the breast reconstruction line where it was up 25% sequentially over the fourth quarter.
Further in our Natural Tissue line our XENMATRIX porcine implant returned to its significant growth trajectory after our voluntary and brief recall disruption in early January.
So in total our biologic product lines continue to grow far ahead of the market.
Our synthetic hernia products were down 3% from the first quarter last year.
We continue to see a shift from open surgeries to laparoscopic surgeries.
Our focus is to have the best solution for the clinicians and we are excited about several launches this quarter most notably our proprietary and highly innovative ECHO PS Mesh Positioning System.
John DeFord will go into more detail on the products and the timing of the upcoming launches.
Our Hernia Fixation business was up 20% this quarter including international growth of over 80% driven by our fifth straight quarter of strong results in Europe.
Closing out the Surgical category our Performance Irrigation business declined 9% and our Hemostasis business was down 11% this quarter.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to Todd Schermerhorn.
Thanks John.
Let me start with the items that affect the comparability results between periods.
Q1 we had acquisition-related items of $2.8 million which are detailed in the notes on the financial statements and the reconciliation accompanying our Q1 earnings press release.
Now going through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $435.5 million or 62.2% of sales for Q1.
On an adjusted basis gross profit was $434.9 million or 62.1% of sales up 90 basis points from the prior year quarter.
New amortization of intangibles relating to transactions closed in the last 12 months costs us about 60 basis points year-over-year this quarter.
So outstanding improvement but over a very weak first quarter of 2010.
Sequentially we were down from Q4 due to the timing issues that we discussed on the fourth quarter call.
In terms of our ongoing manufacturing efficiency we actually started 2011 a little better than we had expected.
And right now I don't see anything that would change full year gross profit guidance.
Moving forward I think we'll see modest improvement in Q2 and then more significant improvement in the back half of the year.
And just to remind you of our discussion last quarter we need to adjust the original gross profit guidance down by 20 basis points in order to accommodate the accounting for the Puerto Rico excise tax.
You'll recall that the reduction is offset in the tax rate.
SG&amp;A expenses were $194.3 million for the quarter or 27.7% of sales reflecting a 30-basis point increase over the prior year period on an adjusted basis.
Again I mentioned in the Q&amp;A on the last call that we expect to leverage in SG&amp;A to be weighted towards the back-end of the year.
We saw less than $1 million of benefit from the 2010 restructuring in the first quarter but we continue to expect $10 million in savings in 2011 as we previously communicated.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $48 million for the first quarter or 6.9% of sales.
On an adjusted basis R&amp;D was $45 million or 6.4% of sales up 20 basis points from the prior year.
I imagine that looks a little light to many to many of you so I'd point out that lower R&amp;D investment levels in Q1 are not uncommon for us.
In fact in 7 out of the last 8 years the first quarter was our lowest R&amp;D investment quarter.
Our financial planning process continues to try to drive EPS momentum in Q1 each year to give us confidence in our full year earnings commitments before we initiate our investment programs.
That approach has worked nicely for us in the past and I see no reason it would not continue to work.
Now to be clear we don't cut R&amp;D in Q1 of each year.
We just typically don't initiate new projects until we get a good sense of our business and earnings momentum.
As we look forward you can expect R&amp;D as a percent of sales to continue to increase throughout the year nicely as our project and clinical trial efforts develop.
Interest expense was $9.1 million for the first quarter reflecting the impact of the new debt we issued in December.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 28.3%.
On an adjusted basis it was 28.4% a 210-basis point improvement over the prior year in line with our full year guidance.
Diluted shares for the period were 87 million slightly higher than we had anticipated driven largely by the increase in our share price.
The balance sheet at March 31 reflects cash and short-term investments of $748.3 million versus $641.4 million at December 31.
For the quarter accounts receivable days were up 1.3 days and inventory days were up 5.3 days with 1/2 of that increase attributed to the foreign exchange.
Capital expenditures totaled $16.3 million for the quarter.
On the liability side total debt was $895.3 million as of March 31 down from $977.4 million at December 31.
Debt-to-total cap at the end of the first quarter was about 33% and total shareholder investment was $1.852 billion at March 31.
Moving to financial guidance for Q2 we're again expecting constant currency sales growth of 6% to 8%.
At today's rates foreign exchange would add 150 to 200 basis points to those results.
From an EPS standpoint excluding items affecting comparability we see the second quarter in the range of $1.53 to $1.57.
I would caution you against seeing the extra $0.05 in Q1 as an ongoing trend.
It's a good start from an EPS standpoint for the reasons I noted but we remain laser-focused on our 14% full year EPS commitment which gets you to $6.38.
And we'll be planning the investment side of our earnings equation to deliver just that.
I will now turn it over to John DeFord.
Good afternoon.
And with over 50 projects discussed in December I'm just going to hit the highlights today and we'll bring in details of the other products as the year progresses.
I'll start with our new atrial fibrillation ablation technology named ENCOMPASS.
ENCOMPASS is our over-the-wire mesh ablation catheter a new energy delivery system.
We're in the final qualification phase of development and anticipate filing for the CE Mark early in the second half of the year and simultaneously initiating a clinical study.
We expect to enroll up to 60 patients in this feasibility study and use those data to support both our pivotal IDE submission in the second half of 2012 and provide marketing data for our European rollout.
We alluded to a number of new products to aid in the a-fib procedure at our December meeting and we expect to launch the first product a new fixed curve introducer sheath system named EZCROSS later this quarter.
We'll provide more details on that product and others in the pipeline as we launch them over the next several quarters.
In EP Lab Systems we have several developments underway to enhance function and expand capability with launches anticipated to start during Q2 and continuing to the year.
In Biopsy you see a good example of our acquisition strategy folding into our R&amp;D process.
Only 3 quarters after the acquisition of SenoRx we're completing our development and regulatory activities surrounding our next generation console vacuum-assisted biopsy system named the ENCOR ENSPIRE and anticipate launch in early Q3.
The ENCOR ENSPIRE includes new human factors-driven designs for the user interface control system and the tubing and vacuum systems to simplify set up use and changeover between patients.
In Stents we told you in December that we completed our 30-day follow-up in the LifeStent European clinical study of our 200-millimeter devices with enhanced radiopacity and a new delivery system.
Just a few weeks ago we submitted our PMA supplement and contingent upon FDA approval we anticipate launching in the U.S.
in Q4.
In Stent Grafts we began enrolling in roughly 200-patient clinical study of the FLUENCY Plus family for the AV access and stent restenosis indications.
We expect enrollment to continue throughout the year.
The study requires six months follow-up so PMA submission is anticipated in the second half of 2012 and expected launch in 2013.
In our next generation stent graph targeted for the treatment of SFA disease and built upon the LifeStent in our proprietary graft technology is nearing development completion.
We anticipate submitting our IDE late this quarter and commencing enrollment in a roughly 200-patient clinical study in late Q3 or Q4.
European launch is expected in Q4.
In PTA we outlined in December a robust pipeline of line extensions and new platforms under development.
In the near term we've just launched additional products and expanded indications in the VASCUTRAK family and anticipate launching further line extensions in that family along with new rival PTA catheters in early Q3.
Moving to filters in late Q3 of last year we submitted our 510(k) for the Meridian Vena Cava Filter our next generation device built on the ECLIPSE platform.
The Meridian filter incorporates enhanced anchoring technology and a new delivery system for both femoral and jugular placement.
We've received and are responding to some questions from FDA and are prepared to launch Meridian upon FDA concurrence hopefully later this quarter.
Our next generation DENALI filter systems has completed our internal development process and we received conditional approval on our IDE in Q1 which allows us to start the clinical trial.
We'll be conducting another approximately 200-patient study to evaluate both permanent placement and retrievability.
We're in start up now and anticipate commencing enrollment in Q3 and launching the U.S.
in the second half of 2013.
Now turning to Urology and Continence we were pleased to receive FDA concurrence for our ALYTE pelvic floor repair mesh with a sacrosuspension and sacrocolpopexy indications later this month and expect to launch later this quarter.
We are also preparing for launch of NuVia family of single-incision anterior and posterior pelvic floor repair kits in Europe this quarter.
On the U.S.
front for NuVia we met with FDA late in Q1 to discuss clinical trial designs but as we told you last year the FDA's dramatically changed the regulatory path for these products and we're analyzing the guidance they provided at the meeting.
At this point there's still a number of points under discussion so I'm not in a position to provide details on the design commencement or estimated completion of the study.
In Basic Drainage since our December meeting we've received some new user input concerning the level of electronic medical record or EMR connectivity desired for our COREVIEW automated urine output and temperature monitoring system.
Based upon this input we've decided to significantly enhance COREVIEW's EMR capability.
This is a pretty substantial change to the systems hardware configuration and software so we're not quite ready to provide updated timelines here.
And moving to Oncology in ports we just received an additional round of questions on our antimicrobial PowerPort.
We're evaluating FDA's request and are not sure at this point how we'll proceed so I plan to provide more information later.
And turning to PICCs our 3CG system that integrates ultrasound guidance for venous access Sherlock tip tracking and ECG tip confirmation technology is being studied in the clinical trial we discussed in December.
We have begun enrollment and anticipate steady completion and FDA submission in Q4 and launch in the first half of next year.
In January we launched the 3 French Single and 4 French Dual Lumen POWERPICC SVs for use in patients with small diameter vessels.
We've also responded to a round of questions from FDA on our thromboresistant PICC family.
We continue to believe with FDA's current demeanor that the timing for this product has some regulatory risks.
So I'm not going to suggest a launch date yet.
And we're finishing up our final test reports and anticipate submitting a 510(k) for our COVERT POWERPICC antimicrobial family this quarter and anticipate launch around the end of Q3 though I must say with FDA's recent history there's some risks here as well.
Moving to surgery and open ventral repair a couple of weeks ago we received 510(k) concurrence for both our VENTRALEX ST and VENTRIO ST product families.
These new mesh products incorporate our patented lighter-weight polypropylene mesh designs with the Sepra resorbable barrier technology.
Subsequently a few days ago we launched VENTRALEX ST our umbilical hernia repair mesh and anticipate launching the VENTRIO ST later in Q2.
For laparoscopic ventral hernia repair we're gearing up for the launch of the ECHO PS mesh positioning system later this quarter.
The device will be packaged with our VENTRALIGHT ST and COMPOSIX L/P products which will provide the surgeon with a choice of either resorbable [ph] or permanent barrier technology.
ECHO PS is a proprietary and innovative technology that assists the surgeon in placing centering and securing mesh during laparoscopic ventral hernia repair.
The system consists of a low-profile inflatable scaffold that's preattached to the mesh.
Inflation facilitates unrolling and expanding of the mesh for positioning and attachment.
The scaffold is then deflated and removed to the trocar.
ECHO's intended to reduce the laparoscopic surgical time required to position and fix the mesh to the abdominal wall simplifying the overall procedure.
And finally just last week we began the rollout of our new SORBAFIX and PERMAFIX hernia fixation products.
The new delivery platforms incorporate our proven tack technology with enhanced human factors-driven designs intended to ease tack delivery and reduce hand fatigue.
We've also added a fastener account indicator to provide the surgeon with a visual gauge of remaining tacks.
I know we've covered a lot of ground pretty quickly here and I thank you for your attention.
Let me now give you back to Tim Ring.
That does conclude the formal part of the presentation.
I'd like to now turn the call back to the moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Amy Keusch(sic)[Larry Keusch] with Morgan Keegan.
Inc.</strong> It's Larry Keusch.
Just a couple of quick questions for you probably for you Todd.
In terms of the cash generation and the uses of the cash for the year obviously did your accelerated share repurchase and I know you guys continue to focus in on acquisitions.
But how are you thinking about share repurchase out of your internally generated cash? Well we wouldn't be in the market while our ASRs is ongoing.
At least at this point we don't think we would be.
But after that point Larry as I've said in the past I don't think that you're going to see us change much relative to -- our methods of capital deployment include deals and buybacks at historical patterns.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just two quick housekeeping ones.
Just if you can give us the sort of the organic growth rate x acquisitions for this quarter and last year? And also is the interest expense run rate correct now for the year? Last one first.
Yes the interest expense run rate is correct for the year.
We do have a variable portion of that.
But it would get offset by interest income in the event that interest rates rise.
As it relates to acquisition-related sales 13.5% this period for SenoRx.
And if I'm not mistaken I think last year was -- full year was for SenoRx for the 1/2 year was 26% or 27% somewhere in that rate.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thanks very much guys.
And our next question comes from the line of Matthew Dodds with Citigroup.
Todd for you first.
If you look at the second quarter guidance I do know you hate going through this stuff but you gave us a little sequential improvement in gross profit.
You gave us kind of the constant currency and the FX.
To get to the range you're talking about you got to have R&amp;D up a lot as a percent of sales sequentially SG&amp;A probably up a little bit.
I mean does that all make sense because it sounds like a lot of this was backend loaded for expenses but to get to that range it seems like it has to hit the second quarter? Yes.
I think we'd see a pretty big pickup in R&amp;D.
At least that's what we're planning as of right now.
Modest improvement in gross margin Matt doesn't really get you very far from 62.1%.
We're going to improve a lot more in the back half.
So it won't be huge margin period in Q2.
But we would expect nonetheless to your point we would expect it to be a strong R&amp;D quarter.
And then one question for John DeFord.
For vena cava filters the PICC decline I guess it's getting worse but it seems like you're still spending quite a bit in clinicals and looking for new products.
At what point do you feel the data or new product flow will offset these concerns or maybe alleviate some of the concerns at the FDA at a minimum? Well so Matt let me jump in.
The Meridian we thought we'd have on the market by now.
We're in discussions with the FDA.
Like I said we've got some questions we're trying to answer and we hope to launch that product late this quarter if all goes well.
We think that we've got to get these new products out to make a change in the market.
DENALI is our next generation.
I talked about the fact that we've got approval for our IDE and are getting that study started.
That's a 200-patient study.
So we think that those new products are going to be key in the marketplace and we're doing everything we can to get them out there.
For this year I mean should we still expect it's down year right through for vena cava filters? Yes.
I mean we've got to get Meridian out there and at this point we don't have concurrence on it.
So until that happens and we get a chance to get some traction and I wouldn't expect things to change.
Thanks John.
Thanks Todd.
And we'll go to the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
I just want to clarify Todd you made a strong pitch at the end of your comment relative to EPS growth for the year.
Can you just clarify basically what you want us to hear relative to the 14%? Yes.
It's just that the 5% outperformance for the quarter can't be added to the year necessarily.
We plan to the EPS numbers.
So when we commit to you that 14% EPS growth that $6.38 we're planning our investments around getting ourselves to that $6.38 level.
So if currency were to be favorable if sales were to come in favorable or so our first step is to think about how we might invest that productively first.
And so typically that keeps us from dramatically outperforming that 14% goal.
We get focused on the goal and we'll either grind ourselves to get up to that number or invest to get down to it.
And generally in the last 6 or 8 years it's been an investment to get down to that $6.38 the 14% whatever that number was each year.
Yes understood.
Just two items Todd.
I don't know if you said on the policy [ph] I missed it when you get back to complete the ASR and then just one more business question which is...
I'm sorry Mike what was the question on ASR? When will what? When do you expect to complete it? That's a proprietary information Mike.
There's trading around so we're not going to give that.
What we've said historically is we think it'll get done in '11.
That's all we said.
Okay.
And then just one business question and I'll hop.
Just what do you think the underlying hernia repair market is growing at right now? And the do you think there was any softness in the first quarter or was that just more of the timing of your own product launches? Well you know there's different segments in there that you kind of need to break down.
If you look at the Synthetic segment that's growing at a much different rate than the Biologic segment Ventral.
So the Synthetic market's growing kind of  low-single digits 3-ish.
And then your Biologic Ventral market would be growing kind of low-double digits.
Okay thank you Tim.
Mike to that point overall soft tissue is growing in the quarter at the same rate it did in the prior quarter.
It really is an issue of the performance irrigation and the hemostasis lines from being down from their normal trends that pulled that surgery number down to 5% if you're still on the call.
And our next question is from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
I wanted to come back to a quick question on the P&amp;L side.
As we think about the progression of gross margins throughout the course of the year you commented that most of the improvement will be seen in the back half of the year.
I assume that when we get to that second half run rate that's the right number to think about on a sustainable basis.
That's a good picture of the gross margin going forward? Sure.
Although it's -- we're always trying to continuously improve it and our cost improvement programs continue to run very productively.
So I wouldn't expect it to hold at that value.
I'd expect it to continue to increase as we out into '12 and beyond.
That's the plan.
50 to 100 basis points a year of gross margin improvement.
Okay.
And on the SenoRx John I guess the numbers around that can you maybe give us a sense of what the year-over-year growth rate of that business is now versus when you acquired it and whether we should think about your either ability to continue to accelerate that growth as you integrate it into your sales channels? I'd say that the way we're looking at it is that we just recently launched the product lines and built our sales forces internationally both in Europe and the emerging markets.
And I think what we're seeing while you see the overall growth rates have not been great.
We're really bouncing off some pretty significant growth.
We're starting to realize in Europe and in the international markets.
So I think you'll see a slow continued ramp of that and then we think the new product that we have coming out in the third quarter will be significantly beneficial to us.
And then on Japan was it fair to say the stocking impact was about $2 million or $3 million? Yes.
Okay thank you.
And our next question is from Paul Choi with Caris &amp; Company Thanks for taking the question.
If we continue with the Biopsy could you maybe comment a little bit on how you think the market conversion you think is going with your FINESSE product and specifically the SIMS? And how long you sort of see the ramp to market conversion progressing over the remainder of the year? Well we're very impressed with the results of FINESSE.
The clinical benefits are really substantial in terms of having untethered or unhooked up so to speak system that can take multiple samples on a single insertion.
I think clinicians are seeing that benefits those benefits.
And the way we look at it it's a long-term conversion program one new user at a time.
We had an in-service with the device.
We in-service heavily the clinicians using it.
And then you start to see if it will ramp from there.
So it's really one new user at a time and it will be a long-term ramp process in our mind because of the significance of the device.
And Paul John DeFord here.
Just one other quick note.
We don't have our full line out there yet.
We have our 14-gauge FINESSE out and the 10-gauge we've talked about 2012 launch of that product.
And so we've got other developments that we've ongoing here to sustain that growth.
Okay thank you for that.
And then John as a follow-up to your comment on atrial fibrillation for the CE Mark application that you're planning for in the back half of this year will there be any sort of a presentation of related data for that mid-year at any of the upcoming conferences? Or will it just go ahead with the application towards the second half of the year? No.
We'll be putting that application in.
And as I said we're starting in the clinical study roughly 60-patient study of this new device at about the same time.
So there won't be presentations on clinical data with the new device coming right out of the gates.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And our next question is from Tom Gunderson with Piper Jaffray.
On the soft tissues side I didn't hear the growth rate on your biologics revenue.
What was that again? Sure Tom.
Just a second.
Our total biologics were up 50%.
Okay.
An acceleration good.
And then the impact can you quantify Todd XENMATRIX? You had that little brief January hiccup.
Can you put a dollar figure on what that held you back? I really can't Tom.
I don't -- it's hypothetical.
We broke out last quarter what we booked for the expense of the recall.
It's very small sort of like under $1 million or about $1 million.
So as far as the disruption a little hard to measure.
We got through it pretty quickly actually.
I got it okay.
And then John DeFord I know it's the U.S.
government.
I know it's going to be hard to answer but you've got 1 arm saying that they don't want to pay for in-hospital-acquired infections and another arm slowing you down on antibiotic-coated products.
Are they asking hard questions easy questions silly questions? What kinds of barriers are they putting up for you to get these products out? Well Tom it's really a significant change right now.
They have kind of moved in the direction of viewing any type of technology as sort of a drug even if that historically it wasn't viewed that way.
And so we're getting questions that we have not anticipated and have not prepared for around some of these coatings that historically we wouldn't have expected and guidance documents don't really help us there.
So it's a bit of a paradigm shift and so we're struggling to work with them to figure out exactly what they need and then give them the answers that they're looking for.
That's it for me guys.
Thanks.
And our next question is from Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
So first for Tim I noticed in the press release you're pretty explicit in pointing out that you've seen a real uptick in the marketplace at all or no real change in the marketplace at all.
I'm just wondering if you could elaborate that a little bit from a utilization and procedure perspective.
Are things -- it seems getting worse in your view? Are there any signs as you work throughout the quarter that there's light at the end of the tunnel and that things might be getting better? I just would love for you to elaborate on that a little bit.
Yes.
We'll we haven't seen bottom line we haven't seen any change.
And as we said in the past in any one given quarter it's unlikely that anybody can see that kind of a change.
If sales are up a percentage point it's very difficult to tell what's driving it.
If it's market share gain if it's the market itself.
We do file a public hospital data that lags a quarter.
So it's going to take a couple of quarters there anyway to triangulate any of that data.
Our assumption for the year was that it wasn't going to get any worse that's one part of your question.
But we didn't see it getting better and we still think that's pretty good assumption.
The hypothesis had been perhaps if unemployment rates improved that you'd see some better utilization.
But it's highly unlikely somebody gets the job in the first month to have taken a week off to go to the hospital unless it was an emergency or something like that.
So I think there'll be some lag there as well.
So net-net we just haven't seen any market difference in what's going on in the marketplace.
Okay.
And then just a couple of other real little ones.
Could you remind me how big the discontinued business is in Urology? That's one little one.
and then any milestones through the rest of the year that are worth pointing out relative to the Gore litigation? And then finally do you guys have any sense as to whether or not Cook is ever going to come to market with the drug-eluting peripheral stent? So the discontinued business is in the area of $8 million to $10 million.
We have no comment on Gore.
And I'll let John DeFord talk about Zilver.
So Zilver Bob you probably already know.
They have submitted they told everyone that they've submitted their PMA.
They're awaiting presumably a panel meeting discussion.
We haven't heard any kind of a date for that.
We're still looking for this product to hit the market sometime later this year.
But your guess is as good as mine because they've got to get through the regulatory hurdles.
So that's really all I know.
Great perfect.
Thanks guys.
And we'll go to the line of Matthew O'Brien with William Blair.
Can you remind us the percentage of your revenues that are coming from products that are maybe introduced over the last three years? And then within that with the FDA pushing back so aggressively do you think there's any risk to getting those 32 products out to market this year that you talked about during the Investor Meeting back in December? The 3-year new product metric is around 25%.
John's telling me 25% to 30%.
It's not a number I have handy and it sort of tracked over the quarters.
But that's safe I guess from an approximate standpoint.
As far as the risk on the products maybe I'll let John DeFord handle that.
So the risk on the product there's no question that there is some risk in here and I tried to outline that and anything that we thought was significant risk I put into my comments here.
So when you look at the antimicrobial technologies we talked about that and clearly there are some risk there.
We don't think it's going to be insurmountable forever.
It's just the timing might not be where we want it to be.
And the same with vena cava filters we talked a little bit about the pelvic floor repair products as well.
So some of that stuff is a moving target.
We're doing everything we can to try to manage our way through it.
But I'd say there's definitely some risks there.
I'm assuming a guidance range of 6% to 8%.
Maybe you could closer to the 6% range if a number of these products get delayed.
Is that fair? We'll see.
I mean obviously our sales budgets sales plans assume a lot of these products hit now.
There's cannibalization and a lot of that as well.
But that tends to be kind of a trigger there Matt.
I just want to go on record to say that the 3-year number was 25%.
That's it.
I think the other thing Matt to note this isn't the first year that we've had delays from regulatory approvals.
There have been delays every year we've ever been in these jobs.
It's just so many times or some year's more than other years and when you go into your planning process you try to put some calculation on that based on your historical experiences.
Okay thanks.
And then one other quick thing for you.
Clearly you're taking a bunch of share on the peripheral side of things but can you talk about the market growth there? It seems to be pretty bulletproof just in terms of volumes pricing and mix? In the areas where you're competing.
Sure.
If you look at self-expanding stent and stent grafts together globally and this is '10 data right? So there was a little over 9% growth in those markets.
If you look at the PTA segment we think the growth there is in the 7-ish percentage-type range maybe a little bit higher than that 8%.
And the Biopsy markets we think are growing in the 7-ish range as well.
Okay.
Those are all numbers that I think you gave us out on the Investor Meeting but we're still kind of seeing that here in Q1 as well? Well again it's 1 quarter.
We're not going to tell if it will change in 1 quarter.
Okay thank you.
And we'll go to the line of Rick Wise with Leerink Swann.
Maybe I'll start with a question on the strong OUS growth you've had in the quarter.
I know there was a special factor it sounds like in Japan.
But maybe Tim just expand a little bit.
Are we likely to see sustained acceleration in your OUS based on what's going on in the emerging markets or the x EU portion of your business? Yes that would be the expectation.
I mean clearly if you think back I don't remember if it's the last call or the Analyst Meeting but recently we talked a about couple of things driving this.
Clearly increased investment.
We added a significant number of sales people in those markets last year.
We're going to do it again this year.
We did the year before that.
So that's 1 segment.
Obviously getting the products registered and approved and a lot of efforts gone into that going back the 2 or 3 years and it takes a couple of years depending on the market to get approval.
So we're starting to see those get approved as well.
So that's important.
Training the clinicians is obviously a big part of that.
And what I was referring to in the first part of the answer we're deploying resources.
You've seen a couple of restructurings where we've essentially moved investment from 1 geographic area over to these faster growing other geographies.
So the strategy and the plan is to make that exactly the way you described to happen.
They have them grow faster.
And then just a follow-up on that obviously in  2007 and 2008 you grew sort of the mid-teens rate internationally.
The last couple of years have been a little bit more challenging.
Should we think in '11 and '12 you can get back to that sort of low to mid-teens x currency kind of growth? Does that make sense? I think if you look at Europe is such a big piece of it still and these other emerging markets although this study will make an impact on us but until that balance shifts more significantly that's when you see a sharp acceleration.
And as I said we don't have any upper limit in terms of what are desires are internationally.
That's for sure.
All right.
Thanks John.
Just a last quick one for you Todd you've been kind enough to talk about price on past calls.
It seems like a the price headwinds have been running around at 30 40 basis points.
Was it similar in the first quarter? It was yes.
Okay thank you so much.
And our next question is from Douglas Tsao with Barclays Capital.
Just I hoping you could provide a little color in terms of what you're seeing with the LifeStent platform right now.
Are you seeing share gains as the only on-label device out there? Or do you think it's a reflection of just sort of growth in demand for the product and sort of higher from penetration rate in terms treatment certain really relative to say bypass surgery? And/or is it just sort of a mixture of boths and if directionally you could sort of provide some color on whether one is greater than the other? We're definitely seeing share gains in our mind.
The fact that we're approaching a 3-year clinical data for LifeStent we think we'll continue to be a positive as well as the longer lengths that we'll be launching as well as the new delivery system.
All have positive aspects on it.
And I think if you couple that with the results we're just starting to generate in emerging markets I think that certainly holds well for the continued growth of that line.
For example we just need to seek approval in China for LifeStent.
Now we'll be launching that product in the near future.
I think that's a good example of what our strategies are around the world with the product like LifeStent.
Okay.
and then just one quick follow up.
In terms of -- Todd perhaps you can provide some color in terms of the R&amp;D expense.
You noted that you tend to hold it back a little in terms of new projects in the first quarter.
When we see the acceleration through the rest of the year is this sort of starting new development work internally or is this simply initiating clinical trials and that kind of development work as we move through the year and that sort of projects are in queue to take that next step? Yes.
I think it's actually both.
It is new projects that are in the queue that we anticipate funding as we move through the year and as we talk about all the time the direction of our clinical trials is always up.
That is the expense for clinical trials almost always increases every period as our intensity of clinical work has increased.
So the answer to your question is no.
Yes great.
Thank you very much Todd.
Now we'll go to the line of Michael Matson with Mizuho Securities.
I had a question on the ECHO PS product.
Just wondering I guess I would assume that that's something that you're going to be able to get a price premium for in addition to the price of your standard meshes that it will be used with.
Is that a fair assumption? That's a fair assumption.
Okay.
And then just with regards to the biologics in hernia repair what are you seeing now in terms of penetration in some of the less severe hernias? Is it still really limited to the kind of infected contaminated hernias? Or is there some penetration starting to occur in less severe more run-of-the-mill hernias? We still see the growth drivers being the movement in the complicated cases or contaminated cases.
So you once in a while rarely see a small portion of it going straight hernia cases.
But it's mostly in the complicated hernia cases.
Okay.
And then if I recall correctly I think you guys tend to see a little benefit from a weaker dollar on your bottom line or you tend to see it on your bottom line.
And given the weakening of the dollar that we're seeing here I was just wondering if there is potential for that to drive some upside to your EPS guidance or if given the commentary around really playing a hard target on that $6.38 number means that any kind of upside there you'd really end up just reinvesting somewhere? Well I'd say this Mike the volatility in currency over the last year it's a little hard to count as money in the bank in expectation that the euro is going to be $1.46 in December.
It's just been swinging too wildly.
Yes it typically helps us a little bit on the bottom line and we worked out what it means this quarter and what it means the next quarter.
But I have to tell you honestly I haven't worked out what it would be in Q3 and Q4 or to the full year.
Now we do that maybe generally 90 days 120 days before the end and to the extent that we can if there was a benefit there we definitely would look first to investments that make us more productive going forward.
So that's always a formula Mike to the extent there's more investment opportunity in our P&amp;L than we go looking for it.
Now there are times when the timing is such where we can't find it and that money will go to the bottom line.
But generally our first step is to invest it in R&amp;D because that's how we make ourselves strategically strong for the long term.
All right thanks a lot.
We'll go to the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Just a question on your Urology.
One of your smaller competitors in the quarter talked about increasing price competition and specifically in the PICC line.
And I wonder is that to be isolated to that competitor or if you start seeing some of the product cadence sort of be delayed throughout the back half of 2011 do you think it's possibly start seeing price and mix soften in that segment? We have a very strong position in that market from a share standpoint and that market has always been competitive.
There has always been a number of reasonable sized players in that space that we've had to deal with on an account-by-account basis and we've been able to compete very effectively.
We don't see that changing especially looking at our pipeline and the strength of that pipeline.
Okay very clear.
And I guess it's a small line so I'm sure it's not particularly relevant.
But it was a surprising to see EP Lab Systems I know it's been volatile over the last several quarters but most of your competitors so far this quarter have reported very substantial kind of CapEx trends or better than what would've expected.
So is there anything competitively that we should be aware of in EP Systems? Or you just think this is kind of a 1-quarter dynamic? David this is Todd.
I think it's interesting that in the times where our competitors were struggling with capital we would have -- I don't know if you remember this -- but we we're having huge quarters in EP Systems.
So our base is actually higher than they're dealing with.
And then interestingly enough as they start to repair we've run up against a couple of tough quarters.
But I think it's more about the fact that we were not running into the softening that some of them did in late '08 and '09.
Okay just last question and I'll jump back in queue.
Specifically on Foleys in prior quarters you've talked about how that business is -- a percentage of Foleys or have basically been declining inside certain hospital systems.
I didn't hear that specific commentary this quarter but I also didn't hear utilization is getting dramatically better.
Have we reached the point do you think as you look across the U.S.
business where that business has begun to trough in terms of penetration of implants? We've certainly seen the fact that the slippage in the IC business the Infection Control business has not had continued at the same rate it had let' say this time last year.
But at the same point we have not seen utilization of Foleys in aggregate increase.
And it's a pretty good gauge for us in terms of the healthiness or the growth in marketplace.
If you add everything up in the United States market we're about flat in Foleys for the year for the quarter.
Perfect thank you.
And your next question is from Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks for taking the question.
Todd just going back to the underlying growth rate I know you gave for SenoRx.
If I add kind of back in Japan and I guess a little bit for YMed is it fair to say that kind of constant currency organic growth was kind of more around 5% in the quarter versus the 8%? Yes.
Probably more than 5% less than 6%.
Okay.
And I guess Tim if we think back to the Analyst Meeting because it was now 2 years ago or whatnot where you had talked about the changing environment with the FDA and the need to kind of increase R&amp;D you guys were one of the first to identify that trend.
And clearly we're continuing to see the impact of the FDA on the business.
I guess at what point do you really significantly ramp up R&amp;D? Is it just that you're not spending enough that all these product lines are going delayed or is it just the FDA moving the bar on you as you kind of going through the process? It's not any one particular thing.
Despite the issues with the FDA we try to continue to work very closely with them.
There's probably not a day like our interaction with the agency by business.
There's probably not a day a  division all divisions aren't in contact with the FDA trying to give them information enough upfront so that we can try to prevent some of these delays.
So we understand what their issues are and what kind of data they're going to require early on in the process.
So we try to minimize to the extent possible.
In terms of the rate of spending we launched a number of new products this quarter.
The R&amp;D is always a timing issue based on one project startup start down.
But our process is we've got a standing list of products in the projects in the queue at any given time we're ready to turn out.
So it's not like we have to run off and get the ideas.
And just like we manage the rest of the business this business is performing.
We'll continue turn on the spending and the expectations.
We'll continue to ramp up R&amp;D throughout the year.
And then I guess I will point a couple of years ago you guys made the case that you cut the EPS growth rate from 14% down to 10% with the thought that that was going to be more of a couple of year process and really ramp up R&amp;D to kind of got the top line back up to 10%.
At what point do we kind of reach that level again? The top line is just not accelerating and maybe you do need to rethink the 10% bottom line gross target in general? Well we guide year-to-year and we'll look at the environmental situation in terms of how we do that.
Hopefully the strategy has not changed.
We still believe in product leadership.
We think new products make a big difference here and you got to invest to be able to do that.
So there's no change in that outlook or strategy at this point.
Do you think it's still possible to ramp back up to a double-digit rate of growth towards that just not possible given the more structural changes in the environment? If you look at a number of the product lines that John Weiland went through we've got a lot of products growing well in excess of 10%.
We just need to get more of them.
So that still is the goal to try to get up to that kind of growth rate.
And we think new products and new sales forces and geographic expansion and doing deals all of those in combination are what's going to get you ahead in that direction.
And in your original comments you're speaking of deals it's kind of sounded like you had a couple of things in the hopper.
Should we be expecting the pace of deal flow to increase this year or kind of much of what we've seen like last year? It's hard the pipeline is probably as full as it's ever been across all the businesses.
It's just hard to predict when -- it takes two sides to come to an agreement and it's just hard to predict exactly when that's going to happen.
But we're very active right now.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we have a question from the line of Josh Jennings from Jefferies and Company Inc.</strong> I just wanted to circle back to emerging markets and if you could just sort of give us an idea the 29% growth whether that beat internal expectations? And then possibly if you can give us what you have baked in the guidance in terms of emerging market growth for 2011? And maybe give us some more color -- is China still generating the lion's share of that growth? First of all we're right at our internal expectations in terms of growth in emerging markets.
And we've not given that number historically from our perspective.
And I don't think we're looking at doing that right now.
And I'd also say though that if you look around the globe we increased our sales forces this year by about 15% over prior year.
China was a large portion of that investment but we also invested in our U.S.
sales forces particularly in Surgery and in our Oncology business.
So I think you have a pretty good mix of investment around the world but certainly emerging markets is getting a large portion of it.
Inc.</strong> Thanks for that.
And lastly just on Japan it sounds like there you really didnt take any -- there was no disruption in the business over there with the JV the orders occurred before the catastrophe.
Is there any risk to order levels in Q2 and any disruption over there going forward? And thanks a lot.
The way we look at the situation in Japan is that first of all overall for Bard it's about 5% of our total sales revenues.
And if you look at the three provinces in question where the tsunami and earthquake had the greatest impact if we look at our business in Japan it represents little less than 5% of our total business in Japan.
Now we do know there are about 600 hospitals there.
We also know that there were 31 hospitals that closed down so which is not a large percentage of that entire pie.
So at this point in time as we look at it unless there happens to be some ripple effect that goes throughout Japan as a result of this we think it's pretty well contained.
The other part of that equation is obviously we get suppliers from all over the world.
There a couple of suppliers that were impacted.
We found alternatives suppliers.
On that side of the equation we don't really see any disruption going on.
Inc.</strong> Great thanks.
Next we'll go to the line of Bruce Jackson with Morgan Joseph TriArt.
Thanks for taking my question.
I know it's still maybe a little early to start thinking about 2012 and the research and development but do you intend to keep that 15% growth rate in R&amp;D spending? Well we won't give any 2012 guidance until the end of this year but clearly as we indicated a couple of years ago the overall long-term goals we continue to increase R&amp;D investment.
Okay.
And then in terms of how the R&amp;D expense rolls out for the rest of the year would you expect it to be more back end loaded in the third and fourth quarter? Bruce I think as we said earlier we expect a solid Q2 from the standpoint of R&amp;D investment.
And it may progress from there into Q3 and Q4.
I wouldn't say dramatically different.
I think we're going to take it up pretty good for next quarter and then probably moderately increase through Q3 and Q4.
All right thank you.
And there are no additional questions in queue.
Please continue.
There's no other questions? No I have no further questions.
Okay great.
Okay well listen thanks everybody -- so let me just conclude by saying at the end of the first quarter it came out of the box in pretty good shape.
We're right on track where we told you we will be when talked with you the most recent occasion.
And I'd like to just thank everybody for taking the time to join us today and we'll talk to you again next quarter.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the CR Bard Inc.
Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Todd C.
Schermerhorn Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information in Bard's March 31 2011 form 10-Q and the information under the caption Risk Factors in Bard's 2010 10-K including disclosure of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance of the company and its individual product franchises.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of July 21 2011 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information.
Unless otherwise noted all comparisons are to the prior year period.
At this time I will turn the call over to Mr.
Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Kathy.
I'd like to welcome everybody to Bard's second quarter 2011 earnings call and thank you for taking the time to join us today.
I would expect the presentation portion of the call to last about 30 minutes.
The discussion today will go as follows.
I'll begin with an overview of the results for the second quarter.
John Weiland our President and COO will review second quarter product line revenue.
Todd Schermerhorn our Senior VP and CFO will review the income statement balance sheet as well as our expectations for Q3.
John DeFord will review an update on our product development pipeline and I'll close with the Q&amp;A.
Second quarter 2011 net sales totaled $725 million.
That's up 8% over Q2 of last year on an as-reported basis and 5% on a constant-currency basis.
The currency impact for the quarter versus the second quarter of last year was favorable by 220 basis points.
As we previously reported we took a charge this quarter related to the proposed settlements of the hernia product claims which drove us to a net loss position on an as-reported basis for the second quarter of $47.8 million with a diluted loss per share of $0.55.
Excluding all items that affected the comparability of results between periods which Todd will cover later second quarter 2011 net income and diluted EPS were $141.7 million and $1.57 up 6% and 13% respectively.
Looking at revenue growth geographically compared to Q2 of last year second quarter net sales in the U.S.
increased 3%.
This is the lowest growth rate we've seen in the U.S.
in quite a long time.
When John Weiland takes you through the product line review you'll see that this softness in the U.S.
is across multiple product lines.
Specifically you'll notice reduced growth rates in product lines with no significant change in competitive dynamics such as our vascular stent and dialysis product lines which leaves us to conclude that the softness is probably bigger than just us.
As you know we don't have the public data for the most recent quarter yet since that data is always trailing.
So we're limited to the same reports and surveys that you see which do seem to indicate further softening in volumes especially in surgical procedures.
But all we really know for sure at this point is that we had a challenging sales quarter in the United States.
The positive sales news this quarter was that our International business grew 17% on an as-reported basis and 10% on a constant-currency basis making that the best quarter outside the U.S.
in 2.5 years.
Sales in Europe increased 5% on a constant-currency basis driven by continued strong execution with our SenoRx products.
And Japan grew 6% with minimal impact this quarter from inventory fluctuations or any lingering effects of the tsunami.
Our other international businesses grew 23% this quarter driven by 43% growth in our emerging markets as our strategic investments there continue to hit the mark.
We talk a lot about the portfolio effect here usually referring to the product breadth.
This quarter our geographic portfolios on display and our strategic moves outside the U.S.
over the last few years have produced our best recent international results.
You'll also hear more today about the contribution this quarter from the acquisitions we made in 2010 with the 2 that we've talked about FlowCardia and SenoRx we have demonstrated our ability to dramatically ramp sales and at the same time advance the product development pipelines that we acquire.
We believe one of our strengths is selecting the right targets and quickly integrating them into our model.
In Q2 we closed a small deal in Electrophysiology and we remain very active in the business development process.
With that let me now turn you over to John Weiland for a review of our product line revenue? Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start let me point out that I'll be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior year period on a constant-currency basis unless otherwise noted.
So let's begin with vascular.
Growth in this category was 11% for the quarter.
Total net sales were $215.2 million up 15% over last year on an as-reported basis.
Our United States business was up 12% this quarter.
Internationally we grew 11%.
The softness in the U.S.
that Tim talked about impacted us in nearly every vascular product line this quarter.
Our Electrophysiology sales were down 1% for the second consecutive quarter.
EP Lab system sales were down 1% this quarter.
Revenue in our disposable EP product lines was down 1% impacted by our conventional EP catheters which were down 6% and Steerable Diagnostic Catheters which grew at a below trend 3%.
Sales in our surgical graft category were down 5% in the second quarter at the low end of our historical experience for this product line.
Our endovascular business increased 18% globally this quarter reflecting the last period with no SenoRx comp.
We are pleased with the performance of our European endovascular business which grew 17% its strongest performance in 10 quarters.
Within endovascular our Biopsy products were up 57% driven by the SenoRx products which increased 14% sequentially over the first quarter.
We continue to see strong growth across all geographies as we mark the anniversary of this acquisition this July with the launch of our next-generation vacuum-assisted console system named ENCOR ENSPIRE.
Excluding the SenoRx products our Biopsy business grew 9% in the second quarter.
The FINESSE vacuum-assisted biopsy device and our tissue marker line were bright spots for us this quarter as they continue to grow near triple digits for the third straight quarter.
Sales in our peripheral PTA line increased 15% as we anniversary-ed the acquisition of our chronic total occlusion or CTO product line this quarter.
Our CTO and specialty small vessel product lines are experiencing nice sequential growth and we expect that they'll help us continue to see double-digit growth in PTA as we move through 2011.
Sales in our vena cava filter line were down 27% this quarter consistent with the trajectory we've seen recently.
Our combined stent and stent graft business grew at 1% this quarter.
Despite no changes in the competitive landscape we are seeing significant softness in the United States while internationally we grew 13%.
LifeStent was up 7% in Q2 snapping our 9-quarter streak of double-digit growth in this product line.
We're confident this is due to procedural volumes in the United States as the latest IMS data shows that we've gained share to the point that we believe we are now the market leader in the SFA space.
We continue to drive our new product pipeline and compile long-term data results to stay ahead of the competition here.
But I'll get in trouble from John DeFord if I steal his thunder so I'll let him give you the updates.
Next we'll turn to Urology.
Total net sales were $182.7 million flat this quarter on a constant-currency basis and up 2% on an as-reported basis.
The United States business was down 3% while internationally we were up 7% with emerging markets growing over 50%.
Our basic drainage business grew 3% globally in Q2 and was up 1% in the United States.
Our I.C.
Foley business was down 2% globally and down 3% in the United States which is consistent with recent experience here.
So no change to report at this daily used product line.
Our Continence business was down 17% in Q2.
We told you last quarter that we would have headwind in the comps due to the discontinuation of our Contigen product line.
Slings grew sequentially over Q1 but we were down against a tough comp from a year ago.
DIGNICARE was impacted by the delay in our highly anticipated next-generation device DIGNISHIELD.
We did launch the product in June in a controlled manner and we suspect that customers are delaying purchase in anticipation of the full launch.
We continue to see double-digit declines in the pelvic floor repair line.
We do have some news on our next-generation of pelvic floor products and John DeFord will provide update on those projects.
Sales in neurological specialties were up 2%.
The biggest product line in this category is brachytherapy which has been declining double digits globally for years but came in flat this quarter because the growing international business is now about the same size as the shrinking United States business.
Standalone sales of our StatLock catheter stabilization line grew 3% for the quarter the U.S.
sales being flat and international sales growing 23%.
We did have some minor supply issues in the quarter.
From a demand standpoint we're not materially off of our high single-digit growth trend.
We'll now discuss Oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $192.8 million an increase of 6% over Q2 last year on a constant-currency basis and 8% on an as-reported basis.
Geographically net sales in the United States were up 4%.
Outside the United States sales were up 12%.
Our Port business was up 6% versus the Q2 last year with strong growth coming from emerging markets and Japan.
PICC revenue was up 9% this quarter with emerging markets starting to make and become a meaningful number growing over 100% this quarter over prior year and over 25% sequentially.
The rollout of our Sapiens Tip Confirmation System continues to go well and is picking up steam.
In fact of the accounts that have completed the evaluation phase of the sales process over 85% have committed to the product and over half of those accounts have already eliminated x-ray in their PICC placement procedures.
Between evaluations and conversions we're in well over 100 accounts at this point and our momentum is building.
So we like what we're seeing so far.
Our vascular access ultrasound product line was up 2% this quarter and as we warned you on the last call the tougher comps started this quarter.
And to finish off Oncology our dialysis catheter business grew 6% in the second quarter with the United States being up 2% and international growing 15%.
Now let's finish up with surgical specialties.
Total net sales in this category were $110.9 million up 3% on a constant-currency basis and 4% on an as-reported basis.
United States sales were up 1% and international sales were up 8% for the quarter.
As Tim mentioned it appears that surgical procedures were off this quarter in the United States but this space is more active competitively as well.
Our soft tissue repair business grew 4% this quarter.
Within soft tissue our natural tissue products grew 27%.
We remain on offense here and we still have a big opportunity to grow share.
Our synthetic hernia repair products were down 2% from the second quarter last year consistent with our recent experience.
We did have 3 key product launches this quarter.
VENTRALEX ST for umbilical hernia repair was first and was in full market release mid quarter.
VENTRIO ST for ventral hernia repair was in limited release in June and had full launch just last week.
These new mesh products incorporate our patented lighter weight polypropylene mesh designs with the Sepra resorbable barrier technology.
Our proprietary and highly innovative ECHO PS mesh positioning system was in limited release at the end of the second quarter with about 70 cases performed and it has exceeded our expectations for feedback and performance.
We're moving to full launch next month and expect to drive share in the faster growing laparoscopic segment of the market where this product should reduce the surgical time required to position and fix the mesh to the abdominal wall.
That leads us to hernia fixation.
This quarter we grew 1% reflecting a decline in the United States and strong growth internationally including the sixth straight quarter of very high growth in Europe.
We've taken a lot of U.S.
share in past years.
Competitors are now responding and we are seeing significant trialing.
Closing out the surgical category our performance irrigation business declined 9% for the second quarter in a row and our hemostasis business rebounded from a weak first quarter to grow 11% this quarter.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to Todd Schermerhorn.
Thanks John.
Let me start with the items that affect comparability of our results between periods.
For Q2 we had charges for legal settlements and commitments totaling $195.9 million -- excuse me $195.5 million and acquisition-related items of $900 000.
We also reversed $1.1 million of the unspent restructuring charge we took in Q4 of last year.
The legal settlements included $184.3 million related to the hernia matter as we included in our recent 8-K and 4 small unrelated matters totaling $11.2 million.
These items are detailed in the notes of the financial statements and the reconciliation accompanying our Q2 earnings press release.
Let's go to the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $449.5 million or 62% of sales down 90 basis points from the prior year quarter.
New amortization of intangibles relating to transactions closed in the last 12 months cost us about 40 basis points year-over-year.
We were looking for a modest sequential improvement in GPs over the first quarter but we didn't see it.
Price erosion was greater than we expected this period with 80 basis points on sales and the soft surgical sales hurt our mix.
Looking forward the softer sales volumes will also dampen our manufacturing efficiency.
So we still expect sequential GP improvement into Q3 and Q4 but I'd say we're a bit less bullish than we were a quarter ago.
SG&amp;A expenses were $196.8 million for the quarter or 27.1% of sales.
On an adjusted basis it was $196.1 million or 27.0% of sales reflecting a 20 basis point decrease from the prior year period.
The restructuring savings we expected in 2011 are right on track and we are controlling our discretionary expenses well.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $46.9 million for the second quarter 6.5% of sales down 10 basis points from the prior year on an adjusted basis.
This is obviously lower than our guidance.
As we began to see softness in the U.S.
sales we became a little more conservative with our investments.
Again we haven't cut any programs but we're being cautious about spending on new projects.
Interest expense was $9 million for Q2 consistent with last quarter.
Other income expense was $194.1 million of expense for the second quarter.
Reflecting the items we talked about on an adjusted basis it was $400 000 of income.
Effective tax rate this quarter is really only meaningful on an adjusted basis at 28.4% which is in line with our full year guidance.
We'll use cash out of Puerto Rico to settle the hernia claim so that charge has very little tax credit against it causing the reported tax rate to be inflated.
Our diluted shares for the period were $86.2 million.
Because of the reported loss we don't calculate dilution the same way so the basic and diluted shares were the same this quarter.
On an adjusted basis diluted shares were 88.6 million.
The balance sheet as of June 30 reflects cash and short-term investments of $911.9 million versus $748.3 million at March 31.
For the quarter accounts receivable days were down 0.2 days and inventory days were down 1.2 days.
Capital expenditures totaled $15.4 million for the quarter.
On the liability side total debt was $901.1 million at June 30 compared to $895.3 million at March 31.
Debt to total cap at the end of the second quarter was about 32% and total shareholder investment was $1.875 billion.
Moving on to financial guidance for Q3 we're expecting constant-currency sales growth of 4% to 6% assuming we continue to see a weak U.S.
demand environment.
At today's rates currency would add between 250 and 300 basis points to those results.
From an earnings perspective we are expecting Q3 EPS in the range of $1.57 to $1.61 excluding items affecting comparability if any.
We remain focused on the $6.38 target for the full year although with more modest sales assumptions now we'll need to be more selective with our investment agenda.
I will now turn you over to John DeFord.
Good evening.
So far this year with a couple of exceptions our new product launches have been in line with our planning.
A number of these launches occurred later in the first half and we'd expect to begin seeing some impacts from these new products in the second half of the year.
For the pipeline I'll start with our atrial fibrillation oblation technology named ENCOMPASS.
We're in the start-up phase of our multi-centered feasibility study to be conducted in centers outside the U.S.
and we're finalizing our submission seeking the CE Mark.
We expect to enroll up to 60 patients in this feasibility study and use those data to support our pivotal IDE submission in the second half of 2012 and provide marketing data for our European rollout.
Also in electrophysiology in Q2 we began the rollout of our new EZCROSS fixed curve sheet system to support septal crossing but don't expect to be in full launch until Q4.
We have a few other developments that support the A-Fib ablation procedure scheduled to launch over the next few quarters and we'll provide more details as we bring them to market.
In stents we reported in Q1 our submission of a PMA supplement including clinical data to support the expansion of the LifeStent family with lengths up to 200 millimeters a new delivery system and enhanced x-ray visibility.
Late in Q2 we received a request for additional information and we responded a few days ago.
Contingent upon FDA approval we continue to anticipate launching in Q4.
We also completed development and bench testing of our next-generation stent graft targeted for the treatment of SFA disease and built upon the LifeStent and our proprietary graft technology.
We've received additional information from FDA in a pre-IDE discussion and now anticipate submitting our IDE late this quarter and commencing enrollment in roughly a 200-patient clinical study in Q4.
European launch is also expected in Q4.
In PTA in Q2 we launched our new RIVAL AV PTA family and expanded products in our dialysis access center-targeted Vaccess angioplasty line.
We're also on track to launch new diameters in our VASCUTRAK PTA family later this quarter.
Moving to filters in Q2 our dialogue with FDA concerning 510(k) review of the Meridian Vena Cava Filter continued.
FDA asked a few additional questions and we submitted our response a few days ago.
We believe we've addressed all the FDA's concerns and are prepared to launch Meridian upon FDA concurrence hopefully later this quarter.
Development of our next-generation DENALI filter was completed and we received conditional approval on our IDE in Q1.
Patient enrollment began just a few days ago and we're now actively recruiting for this 200-patient clinical study to evaluate both permanent placement and filter retrievability.
Our current timeline has enrollment continuing through Q3 of 2012 and U.S.
launch in the second half of 2013.
And in Biopsy we received 510(k) concurrence for our next-generation vacuum-assisted console system named ENCOR ENSPIRE and we're in the early stages of launch.
In addition we've recently launched our Contura cavity maintenance catheter.
This is a temporary balloon catheter that allows surgeons to maintain the lumpectomy cavity and track while awaiting diagnosis.
This new device is designed for an easy office-based removal or exchange to the Contura Multi-Lumen Balloon if partial breast irradiation is indicated.
Now turning to Urology Incontinence early in Q2 we received FDA concurrence for our ALYTE pelvic floor repair mesh with the sacrosuspension and sacrocolpopexy indications and the launch is underway.
We've also had several discussions with FDA over the last 2 quarters concerning the appropriate regulatory path for pelvic organ prolapse repair kits including our NuVia SI single incision system.
Though the U.S.
launch remains unclear based upon FDA's guidance we're submitting the NuVia SI 510(k) later this year but I really can't speculate on the timing of the U.S.
launch.
Nonetheless we're gearing up to launch NuVia SI in Europe later this quarter.
In the intermittent urinary catheter space we submitted a 510(k) this month for the first synthetic polyisoprene catheter.
We've named the product COMFORTGLIDE and designed it with the highly desired physical characteristics of a natural rubber latex catheter without the risks associated with latex allergies.
We anticipate launch of this product in 2012.
Now moving to Oncology we've begun the launch of our Sapiens TCS and Sherlock TLS integrated system for accounts that utilize non-Bard ultrasound devices.
We also have other TCS enhancements planned for launch in the coming year.
Our 3CG system that integrates ultrasound Sherlock Tip Location and tracking and ECG tip confirmation is being studied in the clinical trial we discussed in December.
We're continuing enrollment and now anticipate study completion in 2012.
Enrollment is much lower than we'd hoped and as a result of our rigorous study design that requires placement of the PICC and the 3D angio suite and the use of contrast to definitively identify patient vascular anatomy and catheter placement.
These requirements have made selection of suitable patients difficult.
However we believe the study design will further reinforce the reliability and accuracy of using the ECG per PICC tip placement.
In PICCs we launched several line extensions and custom kit options in the quarter.
We also received more questions from FDA on our thromboresistant PICC family including request for additional bench testing and clinical data that we feel are impractical to perform at this time.
We've halted this project and are evaluating other possibilities for bringing the technology to market.
On the other hand our antimicrobial PICC family named the COVERT PowerPICC is in the final stages of testing for 510(k) submission.
We've taken into account the FDA questions and intent surrounding the thromboresistant PICC family and are performing some additional testing that will push our 510(k) submission out until about September and we're hopeful for U.S.
launch around the end of the year or early next year.
Turning to Ports we're facing the same issues on the antimicrobial PowerPort family as we described with the thromboresistant PICC.
FDA has provided us a list of additional testing requirements that we don't feel we can justify performing given the low infection rates seen in ports.
So at this point we put this project on hold and are evaluating alternative solutions.
We'll let you know when we feel we have a viable plan to move forward.
And finally moving to surgery we've had a very busy launch quarter in ventral hernia repair as John described.
In the pipeline we continue to advance our antimicrobial ventral hernia repair products.
Our technology was unveiled early in the quarter at a poster session at SAGES where Dr.
Yuri Novitsky presented animal study results summarizing the performance of this antimicrobial technology.
We anticipate commencing our dialogue with FDA for this product in Q3.
Our recent antimicrobial experience with FDA on other products have left us a bit cautious of providing any filing our launch dates until we have further clarity.
I know we've covered a lot of information here and I thank you for your attention.
Let me now turn you back to Tim Ring.
Thanks John.
That concludes the formal part of the presentation.
I'll now turn it back to the moderator for questions.
Kathy? [Operator Instructions] That will come from Rick Wise with Leerink Swann.
Perhaps any change in trend as you proceeded through the quarter and here we are at the end of July or just seemed like we're just going to bump along here for a while.
What do you think in general after the second half with U.S.
procedures? This is Tim Rick.
As we've kind of mentioned even going back to December we assume there will be no improvement in the environment this year.
Clearly the U.S.
business was softer in the second quarter.
And there was nothing that we've seen in the second quarter that would indicate that that's going to get any better any time soon.
And just 2 quick follow-ups.
Gross margins you talked about some of the issues there.
Should we think about a flattish margin in the third quarter or given the new products we should see it sequentially higher in each quarter? And last maybe you all can talk about surgical and your comment about more active competition and whether that's likely to persist.
Let me take the margin question first and then probably John will take the surgery situation.
As I said mix price and the volumes are all working against us I guess currently.
Really nothing dramatic in there Rick in terms of the change.
It's just that all those components are kind of going in the same direction at once.
And it's created a modest amount of pressure.
We weren't looking for a whole lot of improvement into Q2.
Maybe we did 62.1% in the first period and we're probably looking at 62.2% or 62.3%.
So we're dealing with 10 or 20 basis points.
I do think that we'll still see improvement sequentially into 3 and 4.
I think we're now probably talking about mid-62s whereas a quarter ago I might have said high 62s or even 63%.
And Rick as related to the surgical side and then the competitive arena there primarily the biggest change had been the entrance of J&amp;J into the fixation market which they really hadn't been a player in of any size up until recently.
They also launched a new mesh and I think in a full launch position for the entire quarter.
So they had the advantage on us in the quarter in terms of the new product pipeline that was delivered.
But on the same side we're back on the offense now with our new launches and that being the VENTRALEX ST VENTRIO ST and ECHO PS all have pretty unique positions for us and we also launched 2 new fixations or upgrades to our fixation platform.
So the name of the game is one new position at a time and we're right in the middle of that battle.
We'll go next to Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Todd as starting point you've mentioned pricing to be a little bit more challenging.
You said it was 80 basis points of pressure this quarter.
Can you put some context around that? One what would have been first quarter or last year? And then two are there particular areas where you're seeing more pricing pressure than before? Sure.
That sort of oscillated maybe between 10 basis points and maybe the highest would have been 30 over the recent past.
So it's effectively doubling or more I guess.
But still compared to what some other folks are seeing I mean we're still under 1%.
And I would say that what we saw this period was fundamentally in the U.S.
and arguably in markets where we're grinding out competitively.
Just a follow-up just a commentary we've heard from a number of companies this week and there are ones that hadn't reported yet that we've heard some commentary from.
And my one question is in your commentary would be that as you looked over the course of the quarter did you find June to be more challenging than you were expecting or June more challenging than April and May? And I'm talking -- this is up the U.S.
I've got to tell you Mike I don't think we know what the total sales growth is going to be till we get very very late in the quarter.
Obviously there are day differences all around the world and we work on and we're evaluated on such small differences.
200 basis points is a big deal here right? And so until we see really the final week in June I don't think we really know where we're going to be.
That having been said if we were to look back on it now I don't see a big difference between any one of those periods per se.
We then will move on to David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
This is actually John Demcheck [ph] in for David.
First off the gap between U.S.
and o U.S.
growth has kind of been widening.
And we saw the U.S.
was -- struggled through utilization and pricing.
But what was the cause of the o U.S.
relative strength? Were there any specific segments that stand out more than others? I'd say the investments that we made in emerging markets was probably the biggest change in trend.
For example in the first quarter in emerging markets we grew 29%.
In the second quarter we grew at 43%.
So I think that's reflective of the investments that we've made in these emerging markets.
We talked about last quarter the large increase that we made in our sales forces -- or investment we made in our sales forces a significant chunk of which went into emerging markets and I think we're seeing the results of that.
Okay very helpful.
We had organic growth decelerating I guess from 5% in Q1 to about 3.5% in 2Q.
And I guess you could still hit the guidance at this organic rate but do you expect reacceleration into the back half? I would say as we talk about the environmental aspect of it we've been -- in previous calls we've had we talked about one of the surprises I think the entire industry has had over the last couple of years is that the correlation between what's happening in healthcare and unemployment rates and clearly at least in the U.S.
the unemployment news didn't get any better in Q2.
So perhaps another confirmation that that still holds true and the outlook for that to get better on a macroeconomic level is still very questionable anytime soon.
So I think you'll still see that.
And I think you'll see the same dynamic that we've seen in emerging markets continue and we continue to make investments there.
So trend-wise that's what I assume we'll see going forward.
And if I can add a little granularity to the change during the quarter I mean the big swing was the United States growth rate which was at 3% versus 7% in the first quarter.
And you know that number it represents about $20 million differential in terms of run rate in sales.
And we really kind of limit we looked at that and it was really in 3 pieces.
It is in the Vascular business which represented about $10 million of that change.
And then Urology and Surgical split the remainder.
And as we look at it in Vascular it was really confined to PTA and stents and the answer to changing that downstream is what happens to the base growth rates but also what happens to the uptick in our new products.
And I think there we're highly focused on execution with our new 200-millimeter LifeStent which John mentioned will be out in Q4 the new stent graft for Europe which we hope will deliver in Q4 the new RIVAL PTA products which we just launched in Q2 the Meridian filter which we hope we'll be in a position after approval by the FDA for launch in Q3; and the new ENCOR ENSPIRE system which we launched in Biopsy recently.
So that's the key to vascular.
If we look at Urology about half of the issue there was in StatLock which what we thought was an unusual aberration just in terms of demand.
And the other half in the Continence.
The Continence issue will stay because as we told you before that Contigen business was about $10 million annually.
So it's $2.5 million a quarter.
The key to us there is going to be DIGNISHIELD launch when that's available.
And we also launched recently in StatLock some new PICC dressing kits.
So that's the offset there that we're going to be driving.
And then I guess if we get to Surgical the issue was about $5 million for us in surgical split between biologics and fixation and the real key there is again the new product launches that I mentioned earlier.
VENTRALEX ST VENTRIO ST ECHO PS and our new additions to the fixation line.
So wherever you saw the weaknesses that drove the trend down the key has got to be new products to drive us back up into the growth rates.
And one more quick one post the May appeals process court filed a lawsuit on Flair and Fluency.
I don't think you've commented on it yet but just wanted to know if you've responded to the lawsuit legally? Of course we'll respond legally.
We're not going to get into exactly what the steps are there.
Next we have Larry Keusch with Morgan Keegan.
Inc.</strong> Just I want to make sure I understand what is being said here.
It sounds a little bit like you're suggesting that procedures may have weakened a little bit.
But I want to make sure that I'm understanding that or are you saying it's stable? And are we really talking about just you didn't get all the products out and you've got some product gaps here and you really need to execute on those product launches to kind of get growth back to where you thought? I think it's a little bit of both of those things.
As the data lags on the market data so we won't know for sure for probably another quarter or so what actually occurred but it feels to us like that it slowed down a bit for sure in surgical procedure area.
And then John just kind of went through a fair amount of detail on those product launches and the timing of those and I think some of those got launched very very late in the quarter especially in the surgical area.
So as we mentioned we hope those will pick things up end of the year.
Inc.</strong> And Tim I recognize that -- just 2 questions for you I recognize number one it's early it's hard to tell what's going on out there relative to the procedures.
But again the economy's been adding jobs albeit slower than perhaps people would like but it was a rocky soft patch in this second quarter do you potentially think it's people sort of reacting to that and maybe get back to kind of the levels we're seeing in the first quarter? And then the second question is obviously you guys are going to manage your discretionary expenses to make sure that you're focusing on the EPS targets but how do you balance that discretionary spending and fueling R&amp;D for future growth? Because it seems like that's obviously going to be very important here.
Yes.
We'll deal with the second part of the question first.
The strategy hasn't changed here.
We still believe as you heard throughout the formal part of the presentation John answered the question that was asked new products are a big driver of growth here.
And where we've had them as you can see by some of the individual product line results and they're best-in-class products they do pretty well.
So we still think that's the answer.
We're very cognizant of our commitments relative to earnings.
And when you slow down a little bit you just have to be a little bit more careful about the choices you make and the timing that you ramp up the spend.
But strategically nothing is changing here.
We still believe we have product leadership is the answer.
We just have to be responsible maybe is the best way to say it in terms of managing the business as we go through a little bit of softness on the revenue line.
Inc.</strong> Then again just a question of again scratching your heads on why things may have slowed down into Q2? I cannot just -- I'm not an economist.
I just think there was a lot more uncertainty in the second quarter this year kind of across the board.
Everything -- I was just in a meeting a couple of days ago with some insurance company CEOs.
Obviously they've been performing well financially because the utilization rates have gone the other way.
So they get the benefit of that in their results.
In their comments and there were hospital CEOs in the room and everyone's kind of talking about things certainly not improving.
Say in what part of the country they're in they may be saying about same.
Some places are getting worse and I think if you could look at the unemployment rates in those various regions and they correlate pretty closely.
We have Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
So again back to the U.S.
growth and thinking about that sequential decline there and I appreciate you guys breaking all that down for us.
It's very helpful.
But I guess my question is you talked about price.
How much of that sequential decline was volume versus price? You mentioned that 50 basis points roughly but in terms of the sequential 400 basis point decline is it 80% volumes and 20% price? Well price went from I think 30 basis points Bob to subpoint A.
And we do have mix in our calculation year-over-year.
But certainly mix sequentially didn't get any better.
So you really have the remainder is volume.
And then as you look at the Vascular business how confident are you that that's not some share loss? I mean how good do you think it is your feedback from the field that you just didn't get the products out and maybe lost a little share.
How confident are you that that's a decline in procedures? Well let's look at the 2 pieces that I talked about PTA and stents which were the gaps for us.
In PTA we continue to be the market leader.
We've launched a number of new products recently.
And there's been from our vantage point there's been no share shifts at all in PTA.
In stents the IMS data tells us from Q1 that we're now the market leader in the SFA segment of stenting.
And there have been no new entrants to the SFA segment recently.
So we don't see any change in the competitive dynamics in that business.
And that was for the quarter the largest shift in terms of the percentage point reduction in the U.S.
growth rates.
And then Tim I'm just curious from the hospital relationships that you have.
I mean a lot of us do surveys and have been getting back data on utilization and you guys are looking at your own data and coming to some conclusions.
But I'm wondering as you communicate with hospital leaders throughout the course of the second quarter were you actually hearing directly from them that boy second quarter utilization seemed to fall versus first quarter? Or is it more just you're looking at your data and coming to some conclusions? Yes it's more the latter.
It really depends who you're talking to and where they are.
I mean in this one particular meeting there were a couple of guys that said we're about same as we've been things haven't gotten worse maybe even a little better.
And then you have another guy from another city with a big group saying things are horrible and they've gotten a lot worse.
So it's very difficult to get a common trend.
You almost have to take it case-by-case and that's kind of how we look at it.
Inc.</strong> And Todd what was the M&amp;A contribution in the quarter last one? SenoRx was $15 million this quarter.
The next question is from Michael Matson with Mizuho Securities USA.
I guess just with regard to your emerging markets business you mentioned -- I just want to confirm the growth rate it was 43% correct? That's right that's correct.
Did you say what percentage of your sales are coming from those markets? We did not.
But if you ask your next question we'll calculate it.
Can you tell me what it is? We will.
Just go on and we'll go -- we'll get it.
So the antimicrobial PICCs and ports I guess I'm just wondering what's going on there because it seems like there's a couple other companies out there with antimicrobial PICCs that didn't seem to have the difficulty that you guys are having.
Was that just the fact that they were able to kind of get theirs through the FDA before the FDA started to get a little more cautious on those products and other things? Well Michael I think there's a couple of issues there.
First off it's the thromboresistant PICC that we got some questions on.
The antimicrobial PICC we've yet to submit our 510(k) on.
The thromboresistant PICC there are predicates out there.
FDA has taken a very limited view now of saying if your technology doesn't have exactly the same mode of action as a predicate you know it does the same thing then it's different and we're going to treat it differently.
On the antimicrobial port we faced that issue.
On the thromboresistant PICC we faced that issue.
On the antimicrobial PICC we feel like with our 510(k) that's going in later this quarter we feel like we've got a clean predicate straightforward mode of action same kind of technology those kind of things.
And so we think we've got a possibility to get home with that product.
Likewise in our hernia repair business we feel like we've got a strong predicate with the same mode of action in our antimicrobial there.
So we've got a different viewpoint from FDA these days on how they're treating this kind of technology.
They're taking a very very limited view which on a historic basis wasn't the case.
And so you could clearly argue that the products that entered the market entered at a time when FDA -- before FDA had made these changes.
And now we're dealing with the consequences.
Mike back to your other question.
Emerging market's about 5% of the total.
Then just another related question on the international business and more broadly international -- sorry emerging markets more specifically.
Are any of those -- in any of those countries and regions are you selling through stocking distributors at all or do you have direct sales force and were there any stocking orders in the quarter that contributed to that big step up in the growth rate that you saw? The driver of the largest portion of that growth differential would be China.
Everybody sells through dealers but there has not been any big moves in inventories in China.
Okay.
And then your margins on your international business I mean your gross margin was pretty stable in the quarter -- or sequentially so is it safe to assume that just overall international margins are consistent with your U.S.
margins I guess at both the gross and operating levels? I think that's right at the gross margin level Mike.
I would say consistent with our global numbers would be the way to think about it.
And that business the emerging markets business is probably half China or better and those are pretty good margins for us certainly the corporate average.
As it relates to operating margin we're not investing in R&amp;D and all that in those businesses.
So it's not a relevant comparison.
Okay fair point.
And then finally just on the -- is there any common update you can give on where things stand with the Gore patent suit? I guess there were oral arguments in early May and I haven't -- with the filings recently so I'm just wondering if you could provide an update on where that stands? We're just waiting for a ruling from the Appeals Court.
I would say a couple of things.
There's been plenty of talk out there relative to Gore.
Just want to leave investors with a couple of notes of caution here.
Even if we were to win at this phase and we would agree that a win here would certainly stack the odds in our favor there are still more procedural steps and more hurdles to go through.
If we are to ultimately win we don't think we're going to see any cash until well into 2012 and maybe even later.
So I just want to make sure that everybody's got sort of the timing of this straight in their head.
Secondly if we were to win ultimately we would look to invest some portion of that earnings power between the royalty rate and the cash value back into the business.
I think -- I can't tell you today exactly what that is but I know our first thoughts would be to think about the strategic use of that.
So there's more to come there at the appropriate time but I just wanted to make sure everybody understood that.
That was helpful.
That was exactly what I was looking for.
We have David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
This is actually [indiscernible] in for David.
I just had one quick question for you most of mine have been answered.
Taking a look more specifically on the pricing pressure line have you guys seen any price pressure involved in the peripheral stenting space and LifeStent? We have seen a bit in the LifeStent.
Part of that is us being a little more aggressive on a share standpoint from those people that had not converted earlier into it.
But I think that most of the pricing has been -- we've driven that more than anybody else driving it.
We go to Jason Wittes with Caris &amp; Company.
First question I had is on meshes.
You mentioned several new synthetic meshes in the pipeline but I recall you guys had also discussed coming out with a new biologically derived mesh this year.
Is that still on track or how should we be thinking about that? Yes so we've got new biologically derived mesh technology and offering that's really you can look at it more line extension but we're certainly on track and expect to launch at least one of those new offerings later this year.
And just looking at your pipeline or recalling your pipeline you had a couple more for next year.
I assume those are also more line extensions than entirely new biologically derived meshes? We haven't talked about that in great detail.
I'd say one of them we're looking at next year is a line extension and another one is a real new technology.
Okay and related to meshes the FDA put out an advisory specific to pelvic organ prolapse just recently.
I don't know.
How does that impact your business or your outlook for 2011? Well I think we've been in discussions with the FDA for quite a while now on our NuVia SI Pelvic Organ Prolapse technology.
And they've been kind of all over the map with what they wanted and it's still a bit up in the air.
Now as they have said most recently of course they put out a public health notice and they also stated that they're calling a panel meeting later this year to get a panel together of experts to give some greater guidance on what they want.
They kind of moved to we want randomized data.
Then they got feedback that randomization would be very difficult and so they've kind of walked away from that.
And now they're moving toward having a panel come in and provide additional detail and information.
So I'd say at this point we're submitting our 510(k).
We're not giving any guidance right now on what we think is going to happen there.
We think this is going to take some time and FDA is certainly being very cautious.
Just one piggyback question on pricing.
Was there some contract-related changes that occurred this quarter? And related to that do you expect similar type fluctuations throughout the year or do you think what we saw this quarter is kind of reflective of what we're going to see for the rest of at least 2011? There would have been nothing significant at all from a contract change.
Now having said that in the U.S.
anyway we annually renew or sign somewhere between 30 and 40 contracts a year.
They tend to be multiple-year contracts.
And that's been an ongoing thing that's been that way for years.
So nothing out of the ordinary course I guess is the best way to answer that.
We have Matthew Dodds with Citigroup.
Todd a couple for you.
On the gross margin I assume that you still had a decent improvement in manufacturing/cost benefit? Can you give us an idea how much that was in the quarter? Yes sure.
Let me give you the pieces Matt.
We actually were flat in manufacturing cost and really that's because of a weak December that was deferred into the second quarter.
As a result we talked about the fact that we're adjusting inventories in Q4 and the last month there was actually our weakest month and so that rolled into Q2.
And so -- but as it relates to cost I think we're still fine relative to our outlook there.
This is just a little bit of a timing issue.
So it was not great here this period.
Let me give you the pieces though of margins.
So FX is about 10 or 20 basis points unfavorable and I know that sounds a little crazy given the overall FX but the effect on margins is not always intuitive.
Mix was 20 or 30 basis points favorable although I would say we were looking for a little more.
Price was 30 basis points on margin so 80 basis points on sales converts to 30 basis points unfavorable on margin.
We had new amortization of 40 basis points as we said in the script.
We had that Puerto Rico excise tax reclass issue so that's another component here and that's between 10 and 20 basis points.
I know it sounds very busy so I hope you're working with your pencil there Matt.
And then cost is about 10 or 20 basis points unfavorable this period.
But I don't think that's a trend that will continue.
And you commented earlier about potentially slower manufacturing because of U.S.
volumes.
Is that something that could impact the cost 2 quarters from now sort of what you're seeing the lag? Yes next quarter really.
It's about a 4-month lag in general over the life of the inventory.
And then one more for you Todd.
Tax rate doesn't seem to change but with emerging markets growing a lot faster U.S.
starting to slow I would assume the profit mix is finally moving more o U.S.
Can the tax rate finally maybe show some improvement? Well some of that Matt is export business.
So there's U.S.
profitability in there.
I think the bigger trigger is Puerto Rico and we were moving pretty well there and we thought maybe we had some upside in the tax rate but unfortunately surgery is tied into Puerto Rico.
So we got to wait and see how that works itself out before we know finally where that tax rate will go for the period.
So we're 28.4% for the first 2 periods.
I think we're comfortable there and we'll see as we work through the year whether there's upside.
Strategically that 5% business in emerging markets isn't going to move the number initially.
Next we have Matthew O'Brien with William Blair.
just wanted to get your view on your momentum internationally.
For example where are your sales reps at that you hired late last year in terms of productivity at this point? Well as we launched that large expansion in emerging markets a little bit over 100 people for example and we completed that about the end of the year.
And the early part of the first quarter was used for training getting people acclimated to their territories et cetera.
From our vantage point Q3 Q4 we should really start to see some productivity out of those folks.
And then Todd you sort of talked about this a little bit in your answer to the last question but as far as new products go that you're launching and given the slowdown that we're seeing domestically on the procedure side are you able to still capture mix benefits or do you have an expectation that you won't be able to get as much pricing premium going forward given what we're seeing on the macro side? Well we still have a little bit of mix benefit as I said the 20% to 30%.
I just -- I think it will be a function of where the surgery products go as to whether we get -- they're high-margin products as you know.
As to whether that grows or not it will be really dependent upon the trajectory of those products.
But the ones you launched in Q2 you're still able to get similar type of premium? Oh yes definitely but just there's not enough sales in there initially.
I mean we're working with a couple of weeks and a couple of days in some cases on some of those products.
So there's not enough dollars to really move the needle.
Obviously we hope there are as we get to Q3 and Q4.
We will go next to Joanne Wuensch with BMO Capital Markets.
Share repurchases did you do any in the quarter where is your head on that for the next couple of quarters to make your EPS goal? We did not do any in the quarter Joanne.
It's very problematic to buy shares alongside of an ASR.
So we need for the ASR to complete before we would be back in the market.
We expect that -- so we saw shares 88.6 is up from 87 even in Q1 and which we expect.
We think the ASR will end either in Q3 or Q4.
And so at that point we'd expect to be buyers of our shares again consistent with our historical patterns.
And you talked about third quarter revenue incorporating the slower U.S.
surgical markets.
Did you reiterate your full year thought process? We did not in total.
I think 5% to 8% for a full year guidance is still pretty good.
In fact if you go through all of our operating and financial guidance I think it's all solid maybe with the exception of the R&amp;D number.
I'm not sure we're going to get to 7%.
So I think the 5% to 8% is still intact as are pretty much everything else including the $6.38 a 14% increase in EPS.
And you have mentioned that you did a small acquisition in the quarter.
What was that? And what is your current thoughts towards using cash towards acquisitions? Well I'll take the second one first and that is it is what it's been Joanne.
We're always using -- looking to use our cash strategically first and we're as active as we've ever been just its opportunistic.
You're never quite sure what you're going to find and whether you're going to be able to meet the market.
As it relates to the technology that as really small to look...
That was a small technology that we acquired in the Electrophysiology business.
And so nothing of significant impact at least in the short term there.
We have Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
It's actually Katherine for Kristen.
Some of the other companies that reported noted weakness in Europe.
Your numbers seem okay.
Can you talk about why that is and what you're seeing there and specifically maybe on pricing there? Well we certainly see -- there's certain markets in Europe that aren't having a difficult time.
Obviously Greece and the U.K.
would come to mind first of all.
We've been very successful though in Europe with our rollout of the SenoRx biopsy products.
We acquired that about a year ago or so.
There was really very little sales in Europe from that product line and as Todd mentioned that $15 million run rate I think it's important to note that when we acquired it it was only about $10 million and that $5 million has been our own organic growth since we rolled that out to all those markets.
So I think that has been a very positive driver of our growth rates in Europe.
And then you kind of touched upon this but have your thoughts changed on the level of R&amp;D spending for the year or longer term given the weakness in the U.S.? Well as Todd mentioned we have guided to $7.5 million.
Given sales softness it's probably going to be tough to get there.
But directionally and strategically as I mentioned earlier we've not changed our thinking there.
We just have to kind of manage it within other things that we told you relative to earnings.
And we're still investing.
It's just the pace is a little bit slower than what we had told you it was going to be.
Next we have Robert Goldman with CL King.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions on the gross margins.
If price hurt 30 basis points in the first quarter and have hurt 80 basis points in the second quarter assuming prices don't go up it sure sounds to me the math would work out that it would hurt by more than 80 points in the third quarter.
Could you comment on that Todd? Well 80 is the number from a sales standpoint Bob.
Inc.</strong> I'm not talking about sales though.
I think the impact on margins was 10 and then 30.
And so I'm not following your math exactly here.
Inc.</strong> If the average price discount was 30 basis points in the first and 80 in the second and assuming that the price discount in the second didn't start on the first day of the quarter it must have gotten increasingly intense meaning that the third quarter would have to be more than 80 basis points of price decline.
That's possible Bob.
As we look out and forecast the business Bob I don't really get that discrete a level of breakdown because it's not an actual.
These are estimates around the world.
So I can't tell you exactly what level of price erosion or specifically how it impacts margins on a forecast per se.
Inc.</strong> I wanted to follow up on that if I can that once the payer has got to taste for a price decline and that they're able to get it and that you have to agree to it how do you know where it stops? How do you know it's 80 basis points going forward rather than 200? I mean what gives you the sense of confidence that we've had the price declines that we're going to have? A bit of a brainteaser there Bob.
I mean wouldn't that same situation have existed that when we went from 20 to 30? I admit that it was more of a change this period.
But there's always been a negotiation of price here.
That negotiation in the environment the context around it I don't think has changed that much.
I think with respect to a couple of these businesses we're grinding it out competitively and we're meeting the market and maybe that the market is dropping and to meet the market those are the values.
Bob just historically you got to look at this thing too.
I mean it's a very difficult question here.
And I'm not sure there's an answer to it.
2008 for the full year we were 20 bps positive.
2009 we're negative 10.
So if you figure you lock in your prices for a year in a contract you would have thought 2009 would have been positive.
It just doesn't tie that exactly to be able to give you an answer.
I think the piece of the equation is new products too.
I mean as you're waiting for a new product to come out and you have to meet a price in the market to hold onto your business waiting for your new product to be able to engineer where you can get a premium that has it.
And I will tell you that one of the bigger chunks was in the Surgeries business this quarter.
So I mean as we're able to offset that with new products and selling premiums I think there's -- that's the opportunity to afford that phenomenon that you speak about Bob.
Inc.</strong> I've got a strategic question for you on the R&amp;D.
When you knew that the U.S.
procedural growth just wasn't living up expectations I guess you had a choice.
You could cut back on some of the R&amp;D programs and hit the 638 or say forget about the 638 you're going to maintain the R&amp;D programs.
And I'm curious why you chose the former and not the latter.
It's a great good question.
And again we're not getting strategically off to this.
But as you've seen us over the last couple of years there's more than just R&amp;D products and projects that stimulate the growth in the revenue line.
Acquisitions play a part of that too.
So when you sit there and you look at everything on your plate and you say okay we could get this from here you get that from there you just kind of make judgment calls based on what your pipeline looks like to generate your growth not only from your R&amp;D pipeline but from your acquisition pipeline too.
So there are some trade-offs there's no question that you're making.
We are very sensitive about the earnings situation.
So we think we can get the growth from a couple of different ways then we think we can manage the earnings at the same time.
And I think Bob it's important to note we haven't cut any R&amp;D programs.
We just have not been in a position to turn on additional ones that we did not budget yet this year for.
Jayson Bedford with Raymond James.
This is Eddie Onbridges [ph] calling in for Jason.
You talked about investments in emerging markets and in Europe that are yielding productively.
Are you still making investments there? How much more do you have to make? Where about in that progress you ended the quarter? Yes.
In fact we are in the process continuing to make large rollouts in the emerging markets.
We'll complete in the second half of this year an additional ramp equal to what we did in the fourth quarter of last year which we think will benefit us in terms of our ongoing growth rates in those markets.
So we are not pulling back at all on what our investment profile is in emerging markets.
And also in the synthetic market we're assuming that the market is growing about 2% to 3%.
Is that still fair? And when do you think or what do you think will drive you back to that level? We think that's a very fair viewpoint on the synthetic market overall.
Yes I mean over the longer term.
But whether it grew that level in the second quarter is impossible to know.
But over the long term that's where we saw it as well.
What do you think that will drive -- drive you or the market back to that sort of 3% long-term growth range? Well I think that to the extent that there are new products in that space and we have a number of them which we've launched recently that can have a positive impact on that.
In fact ours are a combination of synthetics and biologics in that space depending also -- it all depends on where you could categorize them we think that will have a positive impact on the synthetic space.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to Thomas Kouchoukos with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Looking at -- just one question on I guess your hernia side and really off that last question.
Looking at the new synthetic products you just brought out it looks like VENTRIO and VENTRILEX are pretty straightforward well know type products.
ECHO PS actually looks very interesting but I'm wondering is there a learning curve that comes with that since it is a different type of approach and how fast can you kind of hit the ground running with that product? Well there certainly is a learning curve.
It doesn't take 10 procedures to learn that from a learning curve standpoint.
But there's certainly a couple of procedures until an individual physician gets comfortable with it.
But it's very obvious very quick to the physicians the unique advantage of the ECHO PS.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Anecdotally I know it's early.
I mean are you getting kind of -- a lightbulb that goes off in the physician's head are they really attracted to the product? Yes this lightbulb goes off they understand the benefits of it particularly as it relates to time on their parts and the efficacy of the placement of the device.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> If I could follow with one more on just the Sapiens product or the Tip Location in general I think you said you're in 100 accounts at this point.
I know again it's really early with this product as well.
Maxed out how big is this market? I know there's pull-through that happens with your products as well but how do you size this market opportunity and how long is the process to kind of get to penetration? Well if you'd look at the whole PICC market and we're just launching in the United States there the United States market's a little bit over $350 million and this technology is applicable to the entire market in terms of the ability to place there and not have x-ray confirmation being necessary.
So I mean -- and it's from a vantage point worldwide also I think that the benefits of not having to use x-ray confirmation on when placing a PICC device becomes relatively intuitive once you learn exactly all the aspects of placing PICCs via ultrasound and Sapiens.
John have talked to you about it.
I think the other piece of this is just the timing and you're asking a little bit about that.
The typical trial is a couple of months to maybe 4 months in a hospital to really get some use of the products make sure that the team is trained and as John said we're getting very good conversion.
But it certainly takes some time and we expect that momentum will continue to build.
So it's not something that just blows out the doors in one day.
We are going out making sure that people are well-trained and the technology works well for them and then we're getting strong conversions.
So it's going to be a ramp it's going to take some time.
Then we'll go to Brooks West with Piper Jaffray.
One macro question.
Trying to tease out from longer-term growth product growth versus geographic opportunities.
A lot of the larger diversified companies that we follow are really looking at Europe and U.S.
as kind of flat to low-single digit growth going forward and really looking at R&amp;D pipelines as necessary to sustain that but then are seeing big performance in emerging markets and opportunities.
And I wonder if you share that view in general.
And if so how do you see emerging markets as a contributor to your growth profile over the next 3 years? And where should we look at that as kind of a percentage of revenue over the same time frame? I'll take it and then I'll invite everybody else to jump in again.
We would agree directionally maybe our numbers in terms of the U.S.
market growth rates might be a little bit different from what you had echoed in -- to the positive.
But still in the kind of low- mid-single digit rates.
Europe probably a little slower than that.
I think the U.S.
-- the contrast to that is you still have demographics here.
And I think you'll see in the U.S.
if the economic situation improves that you'll see some of that come back eventually.
Clearly the focus that we've had over the last several years on emerging markets is starting to pay off and we'll continue to invest in those opportunities as well as continue to look at other markets that we're maybe not actively investing in at the moment that might be a little bit further behind the curve.
Having said that as we've alluded to in several points during the conversation today we still believe new products are a big driver of growth everywhere.
So we've got to continue to with product leadership remains our strategy and we'll continue to invest accordingly on the product side there.
So we think it's a combination of both those things.
So how do you feel probably over the next 3 years? What's the necessity of emerging market performance as a contributor to your growth profile? And I think you said earlier it's about 5% of revenue right now.
I mean where does that go? We don't give guidance out beyond the year but if you look at the growth rates that we've been experiencing in emerging markets anywhere from high 20s this quarter 43%.
It's 5% of our revenue.
So it's going to increasingly become a more important piece.
We do have a question from Anthony Petrone with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Just one on Vascular and one on R&amp;D.
Over on vascular the AMA created a bundle code for the lower extremity procedures so you no longer have separate coding for vascular access interventions and radiological supervisions.
So I'm wondering on the PTA side of the business does this provide a headwind for products like ATLAS and DORADO? And then on R&amp;D a lot of discussions here.
I'm just wondering on the cadence of product introductions what is the potential slowdown on R&amp;D spending needed for the cadence of product introduction.
Said another way is if you were at 7% or higher as a percentage of sales in this quarter in R&amp;D would you have had those new products out this quarter? We can handle the second piece and John will handle the first piece.
As we mentioned earlier we have not cut our R&amp;D spending versus our budgeted levels.
And as you know our products take a number of quarters to come out of our development pipeline to be commercialized finish clinical trials et cetera.
So we have not cut any R&amp;D spending in the organization and as a result of that we don't see where that would have an impact on next quarter's sales because we're consistent with what we budgeted this year in terms of R&amp;D.
That said these projects take time and throwing money at it doesn't necessarily speed it up.
And so had we invested more money in the last quarter wouldn't have sped up these launches in any meaningful way.
On the bundling side on reimbursement you're right there's some changes in the coding now.
As we looked at that there's actually some potential positive benefit around combination of PTA and atherectomy and there is a little bit of a change in reimbursement to kind of bump that in a positive direction.
And then there's offsetting some of the activities with PTA and stenting.
So we think that there are some opportunities here and there and obviously some risk associated with some of the reimbursement.
But we're not seeing a big impact from that at least at this point.
Thank you.
And gentlemen there are no additional questions.
So that concludes our Q&amp;A session.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Bard's management for closing or additional comments.
Great.
thanks Kathy.
First of all I'd like to thank Bard employees around the world for their dedication and hard work again another quarter and thank all of you for spending time to join us this afternoon.
So that's it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the CR Bard Inc.
Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Todd C.
Schermerhorn Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risk and uncertainties.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information in Bard's June 30 2011 Form 10-Q and the information under the caption Risk Factors in Bard's 2010 10-K including disclosure of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance of the company and its individual product franchises.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings press release on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of October 25 2011 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information.
Unless otherwise noted all comparisons are to the prior-year period.
At this time I will turn the call over to Mr.
Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Cathy.
I'd like to welcome everybody to Bard's third quarter 2011 earnings call.
Thank you all for taking the time to join us today.
I expect the presentation portion of the call will last about 20 minutes.
The agenda today will go as follows.
I'll begin with an overview of the results for the quarter.
John Weiland our President and COO will review third quarter product line revenue.
Todd Schermerhorn our Senior VP and CFO will  review the income statement and balance sheet as well as our expectations for the fourth quarter.
John DeFord our Senior Vice President in Science Technology and Clinical Affairs will provide an update on our product development pipeline and then we'll close with a Q&amp;A.
Third quarter 2011 net sales totaled $719.2 million up 6% over Q3 of last year on an as-reported basis and up 3% on a constant-currency basis.
The impact of currency for the quarter versus the same quarter last year was favorable by about 280 basis points.
Net income for the quarter was $130.1 million with diluted earnings per share of $1.46.
Excluding items that affected the comparability of results between periods which Todd will cover later third quarter 2011 net income and diluted EPS were $144.9 million and $1.62 up 7% and 13% respectively.
Looking at revenue growth geographically compared to Q3 of last year third quarter net sales in the U.S.
increased 2% demonstrating a continuation of the domestic headwinds we saw last quarter.
Our international business grew 17% on an as-reported basis and 7% on a constant-currency basis.
Europe increased 2% on a constant-currency basis with a couple few sales days compared to the prior-year period.
Timing issues caused our sales to our joint venture in Japan to be flat this quarter compared to last year but the underlying customer demand in Japan remains steady in the mid to high single digit range.
Our other international businesses grew 20% in constant currency this quarter driven by 39% growth in emerging markets where we continue to execute well.
The U.S.
sales environment today is certainly less predictable than it's been in the past.
Despite the uncertainty around patient and procedure volumes 3 of our 4 businesses are on track globally to be within or very close to our original guidance for the year and in total we expect to be within that original guidance albeit at the low end.
As John takes you through the product line detail for the quarter you'll notice that in the product lines where we've made strategic acquisitions last year we're growing in the mid-teens or better even after the anniversary mark.
You'll also notice that our recent key launches in fix and synthetic ventral hernia have driven those product lines back to double-digit growth even in a tough volume period.
We think this underscores that executing our product leadership strategy continues to work even in uncertain and challenging economic times.
So we'll continue to prioritize resources and investments in markets products and technologies with double-digit growth and a clear line of sight to sustained product leadership.
You'll also see this approach in our business development activities.
Last month we announced our intention to acquire Clear Stream Technologies and that acquisition has now been completed.
Clear Stream supports our product leadership strategy in specialty small vessel PTA balloons.
We are also pleased to announce today that we've reached an agreement to acquire Medivance Inc.
a private U.S.
company with proprietary technology in the field of therapeutic hypothermia.
Medivance is a great fit for us as it's the product leader in an emerging and growing market with its targeted temperature management system that sells a large unmet need for patients with cardiac arrest and for patients who require fever management.
The technology also has the potential to be effective in the areas of acute myocardial infarction traumatic brain injury stroke and other morbidities.
This product line is synergistic with our critical care sales call point and will be managed out of our Bard Medical Division.
We see this as an entirely new growth platform and an important building block in our critical care product offering.
We expect that both of these acquisitions will start contributing to the sales line in Q4 but they should not have a meaningful impact to EPS.
We'll continue to use business development to ship the mix of our portfolio toward higher growth markets and I can tell you that our pipeline is as good as it's ever been.
Before I turn you over to John Weiland who will review the product line revenue I would like to take a second to extend to you an invitation to our annual analyst meeting where we will discuss our strategy and tactics for 2012 and beyond.
We'll also review our new product pipeline and provide financial guidance for 2012.
The meeting will be at the Waldorf Astoria in Manhattan on December 20 beginning at 4:30 in the afternoon.
And for those that can't attend the meeting will be available by webcast.
Now let me turn it over to John Weiland.
Good afternoon everyone.
And before I start let me point out that I'll be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior-year period on a constant currency basis unless noted otherwise.
So let's begin with vascular.
Growth in this category was 5% for the quarter as we anniversary-ed the SenoRX acquisition at the start of Q3.
Total net sales were $208.2 million up 9% over last year on an as-reported basis.
Our U.S.
business was up 2% for the quarter which is consistent with what we saw in Q2 excluding SenoRX.
Internationally we grew at 8%.
Our Electrophysiology sales were up 4%.
EP Lab system sales were up 28% for the quarter where in the prior year we had a very weak Q3 and a very strong Q4.
Revenue in our disposable EP product lines was up 1% with our Steerable Diagnostic Catheter line up 2%.
Sales in our surgical graft category were down 3% in the third quarter within the range of our historical experience for this product line.
Our endovascular business increased 6% globally this quarter with double-digit growth outside of the United States driven by strong performance in Europe and emerging markets.
Within endovascular our biopsy products were up 14% which included 45% growth from the SenoRX products despite passing the anniversary of the acquisition early in the quarter.
And the Q3 launch of our next-generation vacuum-assisted console system named ENCOR ENSPIRE is off to a strong start in all geographies.
Sales in our peripheral PTA line increased 5% in the third quarter.
Our CTO and specialty small vessel product lines grew at a combined 23% this quarter while the growth in the base PTA business decelerated to low single digits.
Sales in our Vena Cava Filter line were down 21% this quarter consistent with the trajectory we've recently seen.
We have received 510(k) concurrence for our new Meridian Vena Cava Filter for jugular delivery indication and we expect the femoral indication any day.
We're in the process of that sales launch.
Our combined stent and stent graft business was flat this quarter following 1% growth in Q2.
LifeStent returned to double-digit growth again in the third quarter with fairly balanced growth domestically and internationally.
According to the U.S.
IMS data from the last 2 quarters we are the number one in SFA stents.
And while we anticipate competitive responses we remain on offense here with our longer lengths and our clinical results with long-term data.
In fact we received FDA approval of our LifeStent Solo family with lengths up to 200 millimeters a new delivery system and enhanced x-ray visibility so that launch is underway.
Turning now to our urology segment.
Total net sales were $182.2 million flat this quarter on a constant-currency basis and up 2% on an as-reported basis.
The United States business was down 3% while internationally we were up 6%.
Very similar results to last quarter.
Our basic drainage business grew 1% globally in the third quarter and was down 1% in the United States.
Our I.C.
Foley business was down 4% globally which is consistent with recent experience here.
Our Continence business was down 20% in Q3 relatively consistent with what we saw last quarter.
Half of this decline is due to the discontinuation of our Contigen product line back in the second quarter.
This market is also contracting due to the public notices from the FDA concerning public organ prolapse repair.
John DeFord will discuss the impact that the recent FDA discussions and also give you a latest update on our DIGNISHIELD launch.
Sales in neurological specialties were up 4% in Q3.
Within that category brachytherapy grew at 5% up against a very low comp from a year ago.
So even though this is the first time in positive territory in recent memory we're not ready to say the challenging trends in this product line are behind us.
Standalone sales of our StatLock catheter stabilization line grew 5% for the quarter with U.S.
sales up 2% and international sales growing 21%.
Let's now move to Oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $198.9 million an increase of 6% over Q3 last year on a constant-currency basis and 9% on an as-reported basis.
Geographically net sales in the United States were up 6% while outside the United States sales were up 7%.
Our port business was up 3% versus the Q3 last year with strong growth continuing in emerging markets.
PICC revenue was up 10% this quarter.
The rollout of our Sapiens Tip Confirmation System continues to go well and pick up steam.
Our metrics are staying fairly consistent with over 85% of the accounts that have completed evaluations committing to the product.
And over half of those accounts already eliminating x-ray in their PICC placement procedures.
What has changed is the number of accounts involved.
Last quarter we told you that we are in over 100 accounts between evaluations and conversions.
That number now exceeds 200 accounts.
Just based on the accounts that have already eliminated x-ray in their protocols we estimate that over 60 000 x-rays have been eliminated annually.
And to finish off Oncology our vascular access ultrasound product line was up 4% in Q3 and our dialysis catheter business grew 8%.
Let's finish our revenue discussion with our surgical specialties business.
Total net sales in this category were $107.6 million up 1% on a constant-currency basis and 3% on an as-reported basis.
United States sales were down 1% and internationally sales were up 6% for the quarter.
As Tim mentioned this is the area where our results have fallen short of guidance.
The good news is that the 3 key product launches we talked about on the last call are making their mark as we grew our synthetic hernia business by 8% this quarter the highest growth rate in this product family since early 2006.
More specifically the synthetic ventral products grew double digits as VENTRALEX ST for umbilical hernia repair VENTRIO SG for ventral hernia repair and our ECHO PS mess positioning system for the laparoscopic segment of the market are off to a strong start.
Growth in this synthetic hernia segment is a big deal in that it represents over 50% of our entire Surgical business.
However we did see a slowdown in the growth of our natural tissue products which grew at 6% this quarter and our hernia fixation products declined 18% in Q3 due to increased competitive activity.
The net result was 4% growth this quarter in our soft tissue repair business which was consistent with last quarter.
Sales execution is the key here to capitalize on the significant opportunities available to us in both synthetic and biologic hernia repair.
Closing out the Surgical category our performance irrigation business declined 13% and our hemostasis business was flat this quarter.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to Todd Schermerhorn.
Thanks John.
Let me start with the items that affect comparability of results between periods.
First we continue to adapt to the changing environment by reallocating resources in favor of our growth markets and we have booked a charge for restructuring in Q3 of approximately $10 million.
Charge is made up almost entirely of severance and related benefits and we expect to save about $16 million annually as a result of this plan.
Second recent events in Europe have caused us to recognize a $7 million impairment on our Greek bonds.
We also had acquisition-related items of $2.7 million in the quarter and a credit from a state tax audit of $1.1 million.
These items are detailed in the notes of the financial statements and reconciliation that accompanies our Q3 press release.
Now let's go to the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $444.3 million or 61.8% of sales for Q3 down 20 basis points sequentially and a bit lower than we anticipated.
Price erosion was again a challenge this period with 110 basis points on sales versus prior year and the soft surgical sales hurt our mix.
Looking forward manufacturing cost improvement programs look as strong as ever but with the price erosion seemingly accelerating margins become more difficult to predict.
SG&amp;A expenses were $189.3 million for the quarter or 26.3% of sales.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A was $187.2 million or 26% of sales down 110 basis points year-over-year as we told you that our expected savings from last year's restructuring will be weighted to the back half.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $46.9 million for the third quarter with 6.5% of sales on a reported and an adjusted basis.
This is down 50 basis points from prior year as a percent of sales and a function of our conservative approach in the face of uncertain markets.
Interest expense was $9 million for Q3 consistent with last quarter.
Other income expense was $17 million of expense for the third quarter without the restructuring charge and the Greek impairment the number would've been zero.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 28.6% reported and 28.2% on an adjusted basis bringing the year-to-date adjusted effective tax rate to 28.3% consistent with our guidance.
Diluted shares for the period were 87.8 million.
The ASR was completed in September.
In addition we repurchased roughly 1.3 million shares of the company stock in Q3 and going forward we intend to be buyers of our stock from time to time as cash balances and market conditions permit.
Balance sheet as of September 30 2011 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of $967.3 million versus $911.9 million at June 30.
For the quarter accounts receivables days were up 0.7 days and inventory days were down 3.1 days.
Capital expenditures totaled $18.2 million for the quarter.
On the liability side total debt was $908.9 million as of September 30 compared to $901.1 million at June 30.
Debt to total cap at the end of the third quarter was about 33% and total shareholder investment was $1.849 billion.
Moving to financial guidance for Q4 we're expecting constant currency sales growth of 3% to 5% including 1% from the new acquisitions.
And from an earnings perspective we remain squarely focused on a $6.38 target for the full year excluding items that affect comparability which would mean $1.68 for Q4.
I'll now turn you over to John DeFord.
Thanks Todd.
And with the analyst meeting just a few weeks away I'll just hit a few of the highlights tonight starting with Encompass our atrial fibrillation ablation technology.
We're in the late startup phase of our multi-center feasibility study and we anticipate filing for the CE Mark later in Q4.
We expect to begin enrollment around the end of the year and use those data to support our pivotal IDE submission next year and provide marketing data for our European rollout.
In stent grafts we submitted our IDE in September to commence clinical evaluation in approximately 200 patients with our new Lifestream Stent Graft.
The Lifestream is built upon our LifeStent and EPG FE Graft platforms and is targeted for the treatment of SFA disease.
We plan to include lengths of up to 200 millimeters in 6 and 7-millimeter diameters in the study.
We anticipate commencing enrollment in European launch around the end of the year.
In filters John discussed our recent 510(k) concurrence and launch of the Meridian Vena Cava Filter late in Q3.
Moving to our next-generation Denali filter as presented on our last call we began enrollment in our clinical study early in Q3 and we're actively recruiting to enroll about 200 patients to [indiscernible] permanent and retrievable filter placements.
Our current timeline has enrollment continuing into Q3 of next year and U.S.
launch into the second half of '13.
Turning to Urology and Continence we joined [indiscernible] and other industry representatives at the September 8 and 9 FDA panel discussion on the classification of mesh products for the treatment of Pelvic Organ Prolapse and Incontinence.
We've also had several independent discussions with FDA over the last several quarters concerning the appropriate regulatory path for our NuVia SI single incision pelvic floor repair kits.
Based upon FDA's guidance we submitted the NuVia SI 510(k) in early September and understand that the product will be reviewed under its current regulatory classification.
However until we receive additional feedback from FDA it's really unclear as to the timing of a U.S.
launch.
Meanwhile we've launched NuVia SI in Europe and have received very positive feedback from the first several cases.
Our next generation device for the management of fecal incontinence DIGNISHIELD was introduced in a controlled manner last quarter and early evaluations have led us to make some minor enhancements.
We expect to be in full launch by Q1 of 2012.
Moving to oncology early in the quarter we began rolling out a Sapiens TCS and Sherlock TLS integrated catheter placement system for accounts that utilize non-Bard ultrasound technology.
We also continued to enroll patients in our clinical trial for the 3CG system that integrates ultrasound Sherlock tip tracking and ECG tip confirmation and anticipate launching this fully integrated system with indications in the second half of 2012.
In PICCs our antimicrobial covert power PICC is undergoing additional bench testing for 510(k) submission later this quarter.
We received some insights into new FDA requirements and we're performing some additional testing that will push our 510(k) submission out until late this quarter and we're hopeful for a U.S.
launch around mid next year.
And finally moving to surgery we continue to advance our antimicrobial ventral hernia repair products and anticipate submitting our pre-IDE this quarter.
Our recent antimicrobial experience with FDA on other products have left us a bit cautious on providing any filing or launch dates until we have further clarity.
Thanks for your attention and again we extend to you an invitation to Bard's annual analyst meeting on December 20.
For those of you that can't attend in person we'll be webcasting the presentation.
Let me now turn you back to Tim Ring.
Thanks John.
That concludes the formal part of the presentation.
I'll now turn you back to the moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A session.
Cathy? [Operator Instructions] And the first question will come from Mark (sic) [Michael] Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First I have 2 questions for you.
One Todd can you talk a little bit about the gross margin performance this quarter both the impact of mix on that gross margin and the impact of pricing? And then with that context can you talk a little bit about the ability to actually improve gross margins from here? Let's say that utilization doesn't pick up and your revenue run rate remains at something near this call it organic 3% level and you have 110 points of pricing pressures you touched on in your comments.
Given that backdrop is gross margin expansion still possible? If you look at margins sequentially we were down 20 basis points when we were looking for what I call modest improvement in the quarter.
Now we have 100 major product lines in 20 plants so finding 20 basis points is a little bit of a fool's game.
But when we compared the quarters it looks to us like price mix and foreign exchange all eroded sequentially by about 10 basis points going into Q3.
Looking at margins over prior year Q3 of 2010 was a pretty strong quarter and a tough comp.
And margins are the one metric that's subject to a bunch of timing issues just simply because of the number of SKUs we have.
So sometimes looking at it in a 90-day increment it might put too fine a point on the analysis.
I think it might be better if we looked at it on a year-to-date basis over prior.
I think we'd get a little bit more insight as to what's going on.
And that will I think it serves to wash out some of the timing issues.
So year-to-date we show margins down 40 basis points on an adjusted basis Mike.
Of that foreign exchange is 30 to 40 bps down.
New amortization is 30 bps down.
The change we've had for Puerto Rico excise tax accounting cost us 10 basis points.
So those 3 items somewhat uncontrollable 70 80 basis points of headwind.
So then you add to that 30 basis points of price negative.
And then offset it with mix at 20 basis points favorable and then cost year-to-date of 40 to 50 basis points favorable.
You end up with that 40 points.
So our guidance was 50 basis points of improvement outside new amortization and the Puerto Rico accounting change.
And that has been effectively 50 to 100 basis points.
If you also exclude FX which is clearly temporary we'd be up 30 to 40 basis points even in the face of difficult pricing.
In my mind certainly the pricing situation hasn't made it easier.
It's maybe dampened the margin story by a little bit.
But I think that demonstrates that there's still is opportunity for improvement going forward.
Research Division</strong> So if I really focus on those last items so at this revenue growth rate at this mix run rate and with this level of current pricing pressure basically mix and pricing are washing themselves out and it's really how much you guys are able to drive on the cost side that will determine how much we should be thinking about gross margins improving from here absent a pickup on the top line.
I don't think it's a bad analysis.
I think we're subject to foreign exchange and it bounces around a lot sometimes difficult to explain.
But I think fundamentally your analysis is right.
Then we'll go next to David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jon Demchick in for David.
I wanted to start with a question on Medivance and on the hypothermia market.
Historically market expansion reimbursement and demonstrating significant clinical value have made this I guess more of a challenging market.
And I was wondering if you could give us some color on the size of the total market and your strategy on how you plan to grow the market or if you see a lot of opportunity to take share? This is John DeFord.
Just jumping in on the market question the primary market right now is in patients who have cardiac arrest and then are resuscitated.
So there's about 300 000 patient market in the U.S.
of patients outside the hospital that suffer cardiac arrest.
And AHA guidelines are pretty strong.
In fact level 1 society recommendations for cooling of those patients.
So that is where the Medivance technology has initially entered that space.
But there's also the European resuscitation council.
There's also focus on stroke and neurological injury and fever.
So there's a lot of opportunity for continued growth here.
The Arctic Sun family of products out of Medivance are clearly the market leaders.
They have been growing in double digits and because of the noninvasive nature the high efficiency of cooling they have really gained a lot of share and continued to gain a lot of usage.
The way this technology works it allows the patient to be accessed with the cooling system on.
It's much more user-friendly than say pads or ice packs and doesn't require vascular access.
So we see this as really an important opportunity for us in our critical care call point and also expansion of this technology into a lot of other areas.
This is John Weiland.
I think one of the critical things to add is that Medivance has been very successful since their introduction with a relatively small sales force that they have been very good at showing the clinical benefits of the product to those people suffering under cardiac arrest.
We think we've put it into our footprint substantially larger than a Medivance footprint and we can help accelerate that growth opportunities in the future and conversions by just seeing more critical care opportunities in those spaces.
Research Division</strong> One quick question on 4Q guidance given the guidance of 3% to 5% revenue growth including the acquisitions I was wondering what assumptions you're including for 4Q given that it looks like pressures for pricing and volumes are actually getting a little worse? Are you assuming they're getting worse? Are you assuming they stay more constant? It's a SKU by SKU analysis basically.
We don't have the kind of metrics on our forecast that we'd have on our actual results.
I don't think we're planning for a dramatic changes from the current environment.
Next we have Rick Wise with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> One big picture and one more focused one.
Tim you talked about the domestic headwinds continuing.
Just big picture.
Any thoughts on any possible change? Any hints of stabilization or improvement? And maybe just as part of that just to your strategic thinking where do you go next? Are you trying to step up focus on emerging markets to help offset that as that persists? Yes clearly in terms of the macro environment in the U.S.
anyway.
It's hard to predict when you're going to see improvement turn around.
We've been saying now for a couple of years we think there's a tighter correlation on unemployment rates and healthcare expenditures and now we've got obviously several quarters under our belt and I think there's nothing to make us change our belief that that still holds true.
I think relative to what you do about it as I mentioned in my opening comments you just start making investments in faster growing areas and that includes geographic markets the emerging markets and we're investing heavily there getting good results there and good execution of the team.
Within our internal R&amp;D investments we're prioritizing obviously faster growing segments in each of those businesses as evidenced by these 2 deals we've just announced.
All of our acquisition activity is targeted towards that double-digit faster growing market segment as well.
So that's how we initially got the double-digit revenue growth back 7 8 9 years ago and that's how we're going to get back to it again.
Research Division</strong> Separate follow-up question maybe for Todd SG&amp;A.
You talked about the restructuring benefits weighted to the back half.
$189-odd million you spent this quarter is that the new normal plus or minus? Is that what we can expect in the fourth quarter and any thoughts about further restructuring in light of the pricing? Fourth quarter has typically a pretty good sales jump and there are commissions and obviously the normal expenses that go with sales.
But I think the level of savings for Q4 out of the prior year restructuring will be similar to what they were this year.
That's how you did your model for SG&amp;A.
As it relates to future restructuring I think we prefer to wait until the analyst meeting to talk about that.
And I'm not saying that we have it or we don't.
It's just this isn't the place to announce that.
The next question comes from Matthew Dodds with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
On Medivance can you give a little bit more color on sort of what their sales run rate is because 1 point is about $7 million so I'm not sure when you expect it to close? And then also just broadly how's their margin structure look versus Bard average? True.
Well Matt I think we'll combine the two acquisitions that we just did.
And as we've said 1% for Q4 I think when they're both on board the combined run rate of those 2 acquisitions is $14 million a quarter.
And so and that presumes a late November close on Medivance.
If they become actuals we'll be as we typically are very transparent with that.
In terms of margin structure on Medivance similar to what we got or better outside of the amortization.
Research Division</strong> One other question on surgery business biologics slowing a lot and the synthetics doing better.
I know the synthetics is partially new products but maybe John DeFord do you think that the market is shifting a little bit away from biologics and that the unit growth between the 2 is shifting and the overall growth is consistent? Matt I don't see that at this point.
I think it's a little bit of sales focus on our side while we were rolling out Echo and doing other things.
So I certainly don't see that.
I don't know what the other guys are thinking here...
I'd say Matt our perspective on it is when you have this many new products that we're rolling out particularly in the ventral space our sales team we're in doing ventral cases along with all these products and Echo.
And I would say that we weren't in as many new biologic cases as we have been over the last year and half.
We need to get a little better balance in our sales force there in the next couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> So is it unrealistic to think that the biosurgical part will bounce a little bit? Is it unrealistic to think that the biologics side would increase? Research Division</strong> Yes some improvement next quarter.
I think as we spend more time in new biologic cases that would tend to drive our sales up.
We have Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So first a question for Todd and then one for Tim or John DeFord.
First Todd just to follow-up a little bit more on gross margins can you talk a little bit about where you're seeing the incremental pricing pressure in which one of your businesses in which geography? And then just what gives you confidence that it's not going to get much worse than what we're seeing right now.
I would say probably not real smart for us to get into the pricing dynamics in discrete product lines for competitive reasons.
But this looks mostly like a U.S.
phenomenon to me.
We've had some bouncing around internationally on price.
But that's generally been a function of our initiatives there and going direct and those kind of things.
The real change is occurring in the United States.
And I would say not only obviously looked at this hard from a bunch of different angles.
It tends to happen more in the older product lines where we're aging where we might be waiting for a new product to come along whether we've had regulatory delays or approval committees in hospitals or our own issues whatever it is.
When we're left to fight the fight with a little bit of an aging product line I think we tend to see more price in those circumstances.
Research Division</strong> So is this driven mostly by competitors or driven by hospitals pushing back more? We'll I'm going to leave that for the guys that are actually run the front end of the business.
We've been very successful Bob and this is John.
We've been very successful on our GPO strategies We had been 23 different contracts that were up thus far through the year and we are 23 for 23 in terms of renewals.
Usually with those there's a little bit of price that goes with it.
I think that's some of what we're seeing here in our renewals.
We will stay aggressive on those.
We have a number more to go between now and the end of the year but I like our batting average right now in terms of our ability to maintain our market shares in all these key products.
And I can't imagine -- our selling process doesn't lead with price anywhere.
You can't play product leadership and lead on necessarily on the downside with price.
So that's not us pushing the market.
Research Division</strong> And then for Tim or John DeFord on Medivance.
I mean this is one of the bigger deals you guys have done in a long long time.
And so I'm curious as to why you're going this route.
Obviously Medivance has a place in the marketplace but why not go with one of the startup cooling companies that has shown much more rapid time to cooling than what I think Medivance has.
And how long does it take for this device to get the body down to 33-degree Celsius John? And I'm just curious as to why you went this route rather than some of the up and comers that may seem to have maybe better faster cooling times than what Medivance is able to put up? Let me take the first part of the question and I'll let John answer the specifics of Medivance technology.
We're obviously continue to be active.
This is a space that we've looked at now for some period of time.
We've talked -- I've talked before about kind of the white space activity that we've had for about the last 1.5 years looking at new areas for us.
And this is a result of that process.
In the past when we talked about larger deals SenoRX was one last year.
Of the 70 deals or so we've done in the last 8 years only 3 up until now have had significant revenue and in the last couple of years we've been saying you can't do 3 of those every 8 years.
You're going to have to step that up and maybe do one every other year or one every 18 months something like that.
So this is in our view consistent with what we've been planning and the strategy that we've been trying to execute on the acquisition side.
Let me talk a little bit about the time to cooling because I think we need to inform you and get you some of the clinical data here.
The Medivance Artic Sun actually cools as fast as any device on the market faster than any of the blankets.
And in a head-to-head comparison comparing the LCS Cool Guard to Arctic Sun they cooled at exactly the same amount of time got patients down to body temperature versus the catheter-based system without the risks and those kind of issues.
And then there's another study that was conducted that compared patients that were submerged in cool water to Arctic Sun and again had identical cooling times.
So we think this device with its hydrophilic adhesive kind of connection to the patient and rapid cooling with all the other advantages of being noninvasive put this at the head of the game.
And I think that's why you're seeing that as the market share leader in rapid growth.
And we see a lot of opportunity for it because of that.
Research Division</strong> And Todd how fast is this growing right now? And I assume including amortization it would be dilutive to kind of next 12 months or is that not the right way to look at it? If it's dilutive it's not much.
So the sales in this product line are probably -- they're growing greater than 20% Bob put it that way probably closer to 30%.
Next question is from Matt Taylor with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification first on the price in the quarter.
You said it was 10 basis points worse than last quarter.
Last quarter I think you gave us down 80 year-over-year.
Does that mean it was down 90 this quarter? I'm sorry 110 year-over-year.
That's at the price level.
Gets a little confusing because the impact on GP is less.
Research Division</strong> And then second question just for clarity on the Medivance acquisition I wanted to understand how big your sales force is that's going to be now pushing that product and whether you're going to keep the folks from the company and how it's going to be integrated.
And then any update on Gore would be great.
The sales force size of Medivance is presently 27 and we'll combine that group with our sales force of approximately 70 in our critical care environment.
So the footprint goes about 4x as a result of that.
We'll keep specialists focused on it as well as our acute care generalists helping to drive conversions.
And no update on Gore Matt.
A question from Tom Gunderson with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Can we talk about LifeStent a little bit.
There was an FDA panel last week on Zilver PTX and I was just wondering if you could talk about how you compete against Zilver in Europe with LifeStent? And then also maybe add in a little color on if you're gaining any share in addition to being the only labeled for SFA.
But are you gaining any share because of some of the disruptions going on with Cordis and their distribution? I'd say first of all as it relates to our activity with LifeStent in Europe we really haven't seen much of an effect of Zilver in Europe quite frankly.
We have not seen them really be very aggressive in there.
And as a result of that we continue to focus on LifeStent in trying to grow that around the world quite frankly including Europe.
I think we're very excited about our new covered LifeStent which John DeFord talked about which we'll launch into -- we anticipate the launch in Q4 of this year in Europe.
And then later when we get approval in the United States.
But I'll let John talk a little bit about our positioning of LifeStent and how we think that stacks up versus Zilver.
So Tom if you saw some of the Zilver results and you got to say that they're really good results.
They're right on par.
I think if you line them up head-to-head with Resilient and our data it'd be hard to draw a statistical difference.
So pretty similar results from them and us.
I think we've got some advantages on a lot of usage.
We've got longer lengths.
We just launched the Solo which is 200 millimeter lengths Cook has up to 80 millimeters length at this point.
So a little bit of give-and-take there.
No question that from a positioning perspective you got to say they're good results.
They're results that are right on par with Resilient.
So you would expect that from a competitive perspective we'll be talking about the benefits of each device.
I think we're still pretty happy with our position.
We are still gaining share.
And don't forget this even though we're the only device on label in the U.S.
it's a competitive marketplace.
There's a lot of players that have devices being used in that space even though we're the only one with the indication.
So it's not like it's going to be all-new having some competition there.
The only comment that we would make on Cordis is that the S.M.A.R.T.
Stent still has a sizable chunk of market around the world.
Everyday our people are competing very rigorously with LifeStent versus the S.M.A.R.T.
Stent and I think we certainly like the results we're seeing in the United States and other key markets around the world but I can't say that we've seen a difference in their mode of competition since they changed their structure or emphasis.
Research Division</strong> And then if I switch over to the hernia market fixation down 18%.
It was down last quarter.
I'm assuming that's J&amp;J.
Is that a feature and benefit that they're winning on? Is it trialing? Is it just another player that you have to split up the pie with? How should we look at that going forward? I think it's a little bit of all those.
Certainly you've gone from 2 players in the market now to 3 players in the market step one.
Step two is that J&amp;J has been very aggressive about rolling that out and trying to get trials on it and using all the force that they have of their various sales forces in terms of introducing that they're getting trials.
Whether that will convert into conversions is a whole nother story and we continue to be out there very active in the fixation side of it trying to talk about the features and benefits of our product lines.
Your next question is from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to go through a few strategic areas and specifically Tim you talked a few times about investing for product leadership and ensuring that you stay above the curve but R&amp;D has come in well over 100 basis points below I think what people had expected year-to-date and actually in the quarter was down on a dollar basis.
And then you also talked about investing in emerging markets in new growth areas but SG&amp;A also continues to come down as a percentage of revenue.
So can you help us square up the comments about reinvestment versus what we're actually seeing in spending levels today? Sure.
I'll deal with the last part of the question first.
We're reallocating our resources if you think about it that way.
So we mentioned the restructuring.
Most of that was in severance.
It's a simple case of taking resource out of the slower growth areas and moving them over to the faster growth areas.
So it's kind of a tradeoff if you will.
So we're increasing investment in one area and decreasing a similar type of investment in another area as it relates to the sales forces.
Relative to R&amp;D we continue to believe that investment in our pipeline is a critical factor to fuel future growth.
However it's a bit difficult to create smooth quarter-over-quarter growth in that investment.
Clearly the current demand environment in the U.S.
is putting additional pressure on the P&amp;L.
We've had a couple of changes in the U.S.
regulatory process which have delayed some product launches in several clinical trials.
Our clinical trial expense versus what we had planned is down several million dollars because of delays.
So that factors into that too.
But I would tell you we remained focused on investing in key areas and the faster growing areas.
We still believe product leadership is the way to go as evidenced by several of the examples we've cited during this call and just when you're growing slower you got to do it at a little different pace.
I'll just make a comment on emerging markets in that we announced just about this time last year a major rollout in China of over 100 people and we are doing the same thing this year in China.
So I mean I think that we are putting the resources in those markets where we expect our biggest opportunities to be.
And I will add one last thing to that David.
So we're growing SG&amp;A year-to-date 6%.
So that's what? $30 million and that is sort of inclusive of having restructured and saved about $19 million on an annual basis.
So to Tim's point we're trying to save where we can and invest where we can and we are making I think substantial investments particularly in SG&amp;A in terms of dollar terms into these emerging markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess then just given the size of the relative businesses then is the right way to look at it that if you're taking resources for example out of Western Europe if you're taking x out of that business you only have to reinvest 0.6x in some of the emerging markets because they're much smaller as a percentage of revenue? Or is it shifting or gross savings -- or net savings excuse me.
I think  there's some truth to that.
In a lot of the cases it's cheaper per head in these markets where we're making these investments.
So I don't know if you meant that in terms of exact numbers but...
Research Division</strong> No just to be illustrative.
Yes I think there's something to that.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Lastly given the commentary regarding external investment can you maybe just comment on what the overall M&amp;A landscape looks right now from an opportunity perspective? And also from a competitive standpoint given that a number of your peers have talked about going down a relatively similar pathway? Sure.
We're very excited about the pipeline.
We remain very active.
We have been -- because we're market leaders in most of our 80% of our sales a lot of opportunities come to us first as we get into newer things like the Medivance acquisition.
We go after that we're very serious.
People can see the kind of diligence and homework that we've done and they regard us very seriously when we get into those kind of things.
So will it be more competitive going forward? Possibly but we really have not felt that yet on the M&amp;A front.
We have a question now from Michael Matson with Mizuho Securities USA.
Research Division</strong> I guess I just wanted to start with your PICC business.
Obviously a good growth rate.
It seems like that was the impact of Sapiens.
But is that just the sales of the Sapiens device itself or are you actually getting some pull through effect on your actual PICC sales as well? No I think that you're going to see and the long-term game plan with Sapiens is really on both sides of it.
We have a unique opportunity with this device to eliminate x-ray confirmation for patients.
It's a big deal.
Patients get their therapy hours faster than they would have otherwise and at the same time it's a great economic benefit to the hospitals.
So our game plan is to really be offensive with Sapiens competitive conversions non-Bard accounts to Bard accounts utilizing Sapiens.
Then there's the capital component and there's the disposable component which would be parts of the location system as well as the base PICC.
So it's offensive in all categories.
And I'd say that while we believe that Sapiens is an important growth driver our expansion internationally and from a share standpoint is also in at market building standpoint is an awful big component of our growth as well.
Research Division</strong> And then just another product related question.
Can you maybe give us some more detail on the Encompass product and how it compares to the prior generation product that I guess you're still selling in Europe? So the encompass device if you kind of break it down now there's a lot of subtleties here but to kind of hit the big broad strokes.
It's an over the wire system softer flexible device.
Still maintains the same 36 electrode configuration that we had in the HD mesh product.
We've also changed the tent poles device and the way that it connects up and delivers energy so our energy delivery algorithm we've had some changes there.
Our user interface has got significant changes and we got changes in the catheter system itself.
So kind of across the board differences there.
Research Division</strong> And then just in the hernia business the slower growth -- forgive me if you mentioned this but what are you seeing from a procedural growth perspective there? Has there been a slowdown? J&amp;J kind of alluded to some slower general surgery procedure growth in the quarter.
Is that consistent with what you guys saw at all? I cannot say that we saw a vast difference in the quarter but we did see a slowdown this year that's for sure in the overall number of hernia procedures that is being done.
And I'd say the most dramatic area that we saw a procedure slowdown has been fixation [ph] quite frankly that where a market in a very significant growth mode and it went to flattening very quickly.
Your next question is from Jason Wittes with Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You had the issues with transvaginal repair in Pelvic Organ Prolapse.
Could you remind us a what percentage of your business is impacted by those changes; and b is this something that recovers or should we just assume that this business is going to be impaired for a while? Why don't you take the second question first and I'll figure out the percentages.
It's a smaller number that's for darn sure.
1% or 2% is probably the way to describe it of our overall sales.
I think it's really unclear what the overall impact is going to be.
There's certainly some questions that have been raised around safety and effectiveness of mesh products for Pelvic Organ Prolapse.
The historic issue has been when patients are treated with Pelvic Organ Prolapse without a mesh there's extremely high recurrence rate 60% 70%.
And with mesh much lower recurrence rate.
So there's still a significant need for patients out there.
There's no doubt that we're seeing physicians and patients being much more cautious.
Certain areas where we do have some advantages like our ALYTE Y-Mesh product for sacrocolpopexy.
That continues to grow pretty well for us.
And honestly I would just be speculating at this point to see what's going to happen in the U.S.
in this marketplace.
We haven't really seen changes outside the U.S.
Of course I'm the R&amp;D guy so I'm not necessarily the guy they give a lot of detail on that.
So pure pelvic floor is only about 0.5% of sales not even.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I guess we shouldn't assume there's any peripheral effects to any other mesh business other than isolated to those procedures specifically? Is that the way to think about it? Yes I think that's correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just -- a lot of questions on Medivance.
I guess I think they did about $30 million of revenues last year.
Is that the right number to be thinking about? And assuming they grew that they're growing at about 20% this year.
Is that the right way to think about Medivance right now? I don't have that data in front of me but that's not far.
Spreading the gain.
We will go next to Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess Todd for you where will Medivance be recorded in terms of the different product line breakouts? Urology.
Research Division</strong> In urology? And then I assume ClearStream will be up within the vascular business correct? That's correct yes.
Endovascular yes.
Research Division</strong> And then just in terms of I guess the pricing commentary that you had I think there was a mention of kind of resigning all the GPOs and you guys have been very successful clearly with your batting average.
But I'm just curious you also made the link to resigning the GPO contract saying that that was contributing to a little bit more potentially of the negative pressure in the U.S.
I guess how should we think about that going forward being that it seems like then that would imply we're kind of in the early innings of seeing those contracts and maybe a little bit lower pricing run through and it could get worse certainly from here? And then what gives you the confidence I guess that Europe doesn't get worse in terms of price kind of just looking out on the horizon? I'd say on the GPO side of it we have been consistently signing those agreements throughout the course of the year.
So I can't say that we've seen a big build in that.
In fact I think if you look at the difference last quarter to this quarter it wouldn't be there was really a ramp in pricing.
It was that we didn't have an offset in certain international markets where we went direct and increased the price.
I mean that the velocity has not changed all quarters.
Those average in every period.
There's no particular quarter where you do more or less of those I don't think.
As it relates to where this is going Kristen I think we'd be fooling you if we said we know necessarily.
We've got -- in terms of data points of acceleration in the U.S.
we've got 2 periods here.
So there's not enough data really to create a trend for us and to allow us to predict where the third and fourth data points are going to be with any certainty.
I don't think we have a huge move coming here.
But trying to give you any assurance around that is pretty difficult.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess just earlier you had mentioned on Medivance that it should be minimally dilutive.
I just wanted to check on that.
The price paid just strikes me as pretty high given the fact that the revenues were probably in that $30 million ballpark.
Can you just repeat maybe I guess profitability of it and why it's not going to be more dilutive? I don't think that you're going to be taking out as kind of one-time integration or excluding amortization.
So we don't exclude amortization in any of that.
We will have some one-time costs associated with acquisitions as we typically do but there's not a big exclusion there.
I think fundamentally the issue is the cost of money is very cheap right now and that makes it easier to do these deals from a dilution standpoint clearly.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just for Tim obviously you guys have talked for a while now just kind of alluded to earlier in some of the other questions but just kind of this need to kind of balance the near-term results versus the longer-term.
How comfortable are you kind of where your spending levels are today in R&amp;D and SG&amp;A.
I know you'll give 2012 guidance in December but if the environment doesn't improve are you worried that next year you won't have the same level of flexibility through the P&amp;L or with share repurchase options that try to still get to that targeted kind double-digit growth rate? Because what I worry about is just kind of some of the lower spending whether it be the FDA just kind of stalling a little but you mentioned a couple million due to clinical trials getting pushed out but it just kind of seems that next year we're going to see significant step ups in R&amp;D and SG&amp;A and if the top line doesn't reaccelerate it seems like there's going to be a bit of a growth challenge? On a strategic level we still believe firmly that we need to increase R&amp;D investment.
There's no question about it and that all relates back to the product leadership strategy that we have.
I think when we look at acquisitions -- the 2 we announced -- we look at all of our acquisitions as platforms to put more R&amp;D into and obviously those are in faster growing segments.
So we think those are good investments with more R&amp;D going forward.
And then just be more selective in terms of how you do your R&amp;D when you're growing slower.
When you're growing 10% you can spread a little bit more R&amp;D money around everybody and when you're growing slower than that we get more involved as to where that R&amp;D money gets directed for higher growth opportunities and maybe we don't do as many as the little ones that frankly on an incremental basis just didn't add a whole lot to move the needle.
So it's just a little bit more tighter management but strategically we still believe that more increase is needed there.
Research Division</strong> Just in terms of looking out do you think there's still substantial investments on the horizon that you need to make to get where you need to be? I think at one point you had mentioned ramping up R&amp;D was like 9% to 10% of sales.
Is that still something that you have in the back of your mind? Directionally we think we need to do more.
That is a number we said that we were growing at a much higher rate.
It's just going to take us longer to get there at this growth rate.
We'll move on to Josh Jennings with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just to start off I mean looking at Surgical Specialties Division and the deceleration over the last 2 quarters.
It's been gaining some importance from our perspective in terms of establishing some of the expected mix contribution and supporting jam expansion.
Understanding the headwinds that are in place with utilization trends and competition and such.
You do have new --  have introduced new product lines full launch I believe for 3 hernia products in this quarter.
What are the strategic initiatives can you pursue to improve the performance of that division going forward outside of just new product introductions? I think that certainly we continue as in all of our businesses to try to be extremely active on the business development front within that segment.
I'd say in addition to that our sales force execution in moving both the natural and synthetic product lines both are important for us.
The change in the growth rates was really due to the change in fixation quarter versus quarter Q2 versus Q3.
And the key for us will be to get back on the offensive fixation-wise and make sure the trials don't turn into conversions.
But I think that we'll continue to drive the R&amp;D pipeline there the new product development pipeline our pipeline of business development and also our sales execution.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just in terms of business development with the Medivance acquisition does this represent a shift in new business development strategy in terms of larger deals with a more substantial revenue run rate rather than just tuck-ins of pre-revenue? No I wouldn't call it a shift in strategy.
Each deal is a little bit different when you go and look at them and we still continue to look at tuck-in deals technology deals as well as freestanding companies.
So we're not changing the strategy in terms of how we're looking at deals now.
The strategy stays.
Really product leadership and growth potential.
And sometimes they're bigger sometimes they're smaller but the consistent aspect on it is the growth potential and product leadership potential.
Our next question is from Suraj Kalia with Rodman &amp; Renshaw.
LLC Research Division</strong> Forgive me for harping on Medivance again.
Just one question for anyone Tim or John.
When you look at the therapeutic hypothermia market and please correct me if I'm wrong just based on past history the randomized control trials whether it's just for neuro-protected outcomes have been mixed at best.
I think I heard somebody talk about comparing the Arctic Sun to the Alsius catheter.
Again if my memory serves me right that was a single center observational study and our understanding of the market -- theoretically it makes a lot of sense -- no question about it -- but the outcomes are affected by a plurality of factors sedation cooling duration so on and so forth.
I guess the question I have is you guys have paid a pretty nice premium for this technology.
Can you shed some color as to what was the key thing you saw that you said you know what we got to go after Medivance because -- is it one because of Bard sales footprint and hence you could flood the market? Is it some additional randomized trials you're looking at that you think you can do better and the reason I ask is again our understanding is that there are over 15 companies in this space guidelines and protocols are all mishmash.
You guys have obviously looked at something I'm not sure I followed so far in the call.
If you could shed some color that would be great.
Let me start and then John DeFord will move down there clinically from there in terms of the clinical results.
First of all if you look at the actual growth rates this company has been able to generate they are significant.
They've been able to do that by really talking about the clinical benefits to patients in hospitals that suffer from cardiac arrest and have the need for general cooling for fever management.
You take that same track record of success you put it in the hands of a sales force that is almost 4x larger.
The opportunity for exposure and then compete effectively is enhanced significantly.
We like that aspect of `	the technology and combining it with the clinical benefits that John will talk to.
Actually I think you have some very great points and I got to tell you that when we first started looking in the space which frankly was years ago I was skeptical because there's been a lot of technology thrown at this there's intravascular devices there's cooling blankets there's submersion technologies and nothing seemed to be a winner frankly.
So we'd look at this and continued to look because there's compelling evidence that therapeutic hypothermia has significant benefit in a large number of patients.
And so we've kind of nibbled around the edges and looked at that.
One of the things that Medivance really nailed is the longer-term piece.
So there's a lot of cooling technologies -- there's not a lot of technologies that can keep the patient cool for a long period of time.
And as you probably know a number of the guidelines suggest keeping the patient cool say 33 degrees for 12 to 24 hours.
That's very difficult to do with an intravascular device.
Certainly very difficult to maintain for somebody with cooling blankets and other technologies.
The other thing that these guys have done is nailed the rewarming so that you can in a very controlled fashion cool the patient very quickly.
So patients are cool between 150 and 250 minutes which is right on par with the intravascular devices and on par with submersion.
And then able to maintain them at those temperatures for long periods of time days if required and then warm them back up also over a long period of time or a relatively short period of time depending on the clinical need.
So that was something unique to this technology and then the clinical data that's been building in this space and with this technology just reached the point where we felt it was compelling.
Certainly a lot more to be done there a lot more rigorous clinical data to be collected.
We think we can bring some expertise to that.
And then as John said our sales team focus and expertise and a call point we're already in was very synergistic.
Next question is from Joanne Wuensch with BMO Capital Markets.
Simplistically though the way you beat EPS according to my model was by lower SG&amp;A.
What kind of things are you pulling back on? And do we have to worry about that on a go-forward basis? I'd say what you see is really taking an expense base and say look we froze our levels of spending at the Q2 levels.
That's in essence what we tried to do in our model between Q3 and Q4 and at the same point in time went out and looked for the restructuring opportunities that we announced to you this evening.
That was basically our approach.
And I don't think that from our standpoint we were cutting muscle at any point in time during the process.
We were maintaining our expenses at the Q2 level.
And then simplistically also what kind of share repurchase program is still outstanding? Well the ASR is complete.
We have plenty of authorization and as I think I said in my prepared remarks we bought 1.3 million shares in the third quarter.
We will go to Bruce Jackson with Morgan Joseph.
Research Division</strong> Going back to the endovascular business and the launch of the Cook Zilver do you think you need a restenosis management strategy and are you working on any drug-eluting stents yourself or drug delivery balloons or anything like that either internally or looking at acquisition targets? It's certainly an area of interest.
We continue to look at that space.
But don't have information to share at this point.
[Operator Instructions] Next we have Matthew O'Brien with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I hate to beat a dead horse here but I think it's probably important given the direction that it's moving.
I think you said in your career you've kind of seen pricing down or either flat to down 1% over your 20-plus year career.
Is there anything that you see in this environment that's different or that it gives you the sense that it could accelerate from these levels going forward? Or is it something that you've seen in the past and it's kind of typical of what we've seen with med device pricing? There's more intensity certainly on pricing than there's been in a long time.
I think what we're seeing at least in the United States is more value analysis committees in hospitals where they're seriously now taking a very serious look at cost benefit analysis in various products and technologies.
We're certainly seeing more of that than we've seen in the past.
We frankly think that's a positive thing for us because we do have a lot of the data to be able to demonstrate especially with the newer products and technologies how we can actually help.
Sapiens is a great example of that where we've eliminated 65 000 x-rays on an annual basis and we are still very early in the aspects of the launch there.
So price has always been challenging as you pointed out.
It's a little more challenging now than we've seen in a long time.
I think that correlates to the economic overall environment that we're seeing.
I think it will remain a challenge over the next several quarters.
Matt I'd be more concerned about volatility if we had a narrower product portfolio.
If we were selling one or two things we're just selling hips and knees or we're just selling angioplasty catheters or whatever.
You tend to get areas that are over competed for and that's where you see price really erode.
Our portfolio is so wide and as much as we talk about the price erosion there are places where we're getting price today.
It's always a composite of 100 different things and generally that keeps us from having really big surprising moves.
I can't guarantee anything but in the past that portfolio effect has lowered risk overall of those kinds of events.
Research Division</strong> How receptive are those committees to your value proposition versus look our volumes are depressed we just need to save money on an absolute basis? I think we talked about the success thus far with our Sapiens program and that were in over 200 accounts at this point in time.
Our conversion rate has been significant.
We talked about the number of x-rays that are eliminated.
A number of those go through a value analysis committee in order to make -- give the final okay for a hospital to make the switch.
I mean we're on the offensive value analysis committees.
That's really how we sell with product leadership.
Does it slow the process down? Absolutely it slows it down.
But then once again once you're there once you get that value analysis committee sign off it's also more difficult to switch you out in the future.
Research Division</strong> And then just one more quick one for me.
You talked about kind of a I believe it's a reallocation of funding away from your slower growth areas into some of the more fast growth areas.
But does that leave you susceptible to potential share losses in slower growth categories? For example fully catheters and so on.
I guess what I'm trying to get -- durable are those areas in terms of your share leadership position if you're not investing heavily to come out with new products or new sales and marketing tactics? We do it very thoughtfully.
It's not like we do it off of working the numbers only.
We analyze each of those decisions and when we make those decisions on a case-by-case basis it includes things like well maybe we'll shift that particular product from that sales force over to another sales force so there's a number of aspects that go into those decisions.
It's not -- the financial result is the outcome.
It's not the driver that makes it do these things.
And our final question will come from Robert Goldman with CL King.
Inc.</strong> Just a couple more on Medivance.
Could you tell us when the last private financing round was for Medivance and what the valuation was at that time and what has changed at Medivance to justify you paying out more or less compared to that valuation? And then secondly if you wouldn't mind just telling us who represented Bard or advised Bard on the acquisition and the fairness opinion? Bob I don't have handy when their financing was or valuation work.
You may be able to find that through the investment banking network.
As it relates to a fairness opinion we don't need a fairness opinion to do an acquisition.
So it's not really relevant to us.
But I would add when we look at a deal like this the value paid is a function of how much money we can make and at the end of the day as John said a good technology we perceive it as product leadership with a sales force that folded into and somebody mentioned this wasn't a tuck-in.
I miss being folded into a sales force that's selling the same call point.
So it largely is a tuck-in with a sales force that's 4x the size capable of carrying that everywhere.
We feel like we can make hay with sales and income on that product line.
So everything we do is done on a cash net present value basis.
And we're very comfortable with our forecast and at least the returns that are indicated with the forecast that we've built.
Bob I would also just conclude with the fact -- every year with our board we go through a report card of our last 5 years worth of deals.
And we look at the model that the board approved.
We look at sales income and cash flow.
I think this past meeting when we did that a couple of months back we had like 30 something deals that we have done in the last 5 years.
We were then half a point on the revenue in aggregate and some of those didn't work by the way.
We ended up getting 0s but not on many.
And we killed the income and the cash flow.
So I'm very comfortable with our execution on deals.
This one hit all the bells that we look for market leader #1 and #2; double-digit growth rate sustainable leadership; and at or above the corporate average in terms of profitability.
So we're excited about the acquisition.
Inc.</strong> And just as a point of clarification is this the largest acquisition Bard has made? Yes think that's probably right.
We have to go back a long time but I think so.
And that will conclude our Q&amp;A session.
I'd like to turn the call over to Bard's management for closing comments.
I'd like to take the opportunity to thank Bard employees around the world for their dedication.
I thank all of you for joining us today and I look forward to seeing you all in December at the Analyst Day.
Ladies and gentlemen that conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the CR Bard Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; and Todd C.
Schermerhorn Senior Vice President of Science Technology and Clinical Affairs; and Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information in Bard's September 30 2011 10-Q and the information under the caption Risk Factors in the company's 2010 10-K including disclosure of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of core operating performance of the company and its individual product franchises.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings press release and it's on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of January 31 2012 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information.
Unless otherwise noted all comparisons are to the prior-year period.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Tom.
I'd like to welcome everybody to Bard's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call and thank all of you for taking the time to join us today.
I would expect the presentation portion of the call would last about 20 minutes.
And just to further go along with the introductions John DeFord our Senior VP of Science Technology and Clinical Affairs is in attendance with us as well today.
The agenda today will go as follows: I'll begin with an overview of the results for the fourth quarter; John Weiland our President and COO will review fourth quarter product line revenue; Todd Schermerhorn our Senior VP and CFO will review the fourth quarter income statement balance sheet as well as our expectations for Q1.
And since we just covered our product development pipeline in a fair amount of detail at our December 20 analyst meeting we'll wait until our first quarter earnings call to do a detailed update on that.
And then finally we will close with Q&amp;A.
Fourth quarter 2011 net sales totaled $751.9 million.
That's up 5% over Q4 of last year on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis.
Currency impact for the quarter versus Q4 2010 was favorable by about 30 basis points.
And as we predicted the deal that we closed in Q4 contributed about 1% of growth for the quarter.
Net sales for the full year 2011 were $2.896.4 billion (sic) [$2 896.4 million] up 6% as reported and 5% on a constant-currency basis.
Net income for the fourth quarter was $113.8 million and diluted EPS were $1.30.
As previously disclosed we took a charge of $51 million related to a legal matter in our brachy therapy business.
Excluding this and other items that affected the comparability of results between periods which Todd will get into later fourth quarter 2011 net income and diluted earnings per share were $148.6 million and $1.70 up 4% and 10% respectively.
Full year 2011 net income was $328 million and diluted earnings per share were $3.69.
Excluding items that affect comparability between periods full year 2011 net income was $568.9 million and diluted EPS was $6.40 up 6% and 14% respectively over 2010 results.
Looking at revenue growth geographically compared to the fourth quarter 2010 on a constant-currency basis net sales from the U.S.
increased 2% and Europe was up 4%.
In Japan we were up 13% against the light prior year quarter.
Our other international businesses grew 18% including 38% growth in our emerging markets.
In the past 3 years we've added close to 300 people in emerging markets and have built 2 state-of-the-art physician training centers.
These investments have provided rapid returns and the opportunity in front of us remains significant.
We're pleased with the caliber of the teams that we've built and we'll continue to build on that foundation and increase our share in these rapidly expanding markets.
On the business development front as we've discussed at our annual analyst meeting last month during the fourth quarter we closed the Clearstream Medivance and Lutonix fields.
As we've always said the business development process is opportunistic and can be a little bit lumpy and we saw that last quarter.
But I want to be clear that you should not assume a strategic shift here to more or necessarily bigger M&amp;A deals.
Our strategy our filters and our priorities for cash and our processes remain consistent.
We have a growth agenda that includes geographic investment new product development acquisitions and share repurchases.
This approach has served us well in the past and we believe it will continue to allow us to meet our short-term commitments while at the same time positioning ourselves appropriately for the long term.
Looking back at 2011 despite increasing headwinds in the macro environment we hit our original revenue and EPS guidance for the year because of our multifaceted approach.
Our geographic portfolio was on display this year as our international businesses grew 9% in constant currency while the U.S.
markets were under pressure.
We allocated resources to the best opportunities for growth from a geographic and product perspective.
In the past year you've seen us continue this process through some restructuring as well as the U.S.
sales realignment at the end of the year that we believe will get us even closer to our customers.
While this should strengthen our sales execution it will also improve our ability to recognize unmet needs in the marketplace which feeds our new product development process.
Our R&amp;D engine continues to produce across our broad product portfolio.
We launched 51 new products in 2011.
Our cost improvement programs in our factories provided savings that exceeded the pricing headwinds we saw last year and our business development process continues to focus on identifying the best opportunities for long-term shareholder return.
Looking forward we plan to continue this balanced approach of relentlessly pursuing double-digit growth opportunities both internally and externally.
We're confident this formula will continue to shift the mix of our portfolio favorably and we expect to continue to outperform our markets over the long term.
Now let me hand it over to John Weiland for a review of the fourth quarter product line revenue.
Good evening everyone.
Before I start as usual I'll be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior-year period on a constant-currency basis unless otherwise noted.
So let's begin with Vascular.
Growth in this category for the quarter was 7%.
Total net sales were $220.7 million up 8% over the fourth quarter of 2010 on an as-reported basis.
Our United States business was up 4% for the quarter.
Internationally we grew 11% which included a 53% increase in our emerging markets.
Electrophysiology sales were down 5% this quarter as the EP disposables were down 8%.
In the fourth quarter our EP lab system sales were up 10% against a strong prior-year period including 44% growth in emerging markets.
Sales in our vascular graft category which represents only 9% of total vascular sales were down 7% in the fourth quarter below recent trends.
Our Endovascular business increased 12% in the fourth quarter with about 200 basis points coming from the ClearStream acquisition.
Within endovascular our biopsy line was up 9%.
This is our sixth quarter since the SenoRx acquisition and those products grew 20% over the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our peripheral PTA products were up 13% this quarter.
ClearStream accounted for roughly 600 basis points of this growth and we continue to see very strong performance from our CTO product line which grew more than 50% over the prior-year quarter.
The enrollment in the LEVANT 2 clinical trial for drug-coated balloons continues at rapid pace with over 220 patients enrolled to date and the integration of Lutonix is proceeding as planned.
Sales in our Vena Cava Filter Line were down 3% in the fourth quarter after 5 consecutive quarters of double-digit declines.
We told you that the fourth quarter launch of the Meridian filter would change the trajectory in this product line and we do expect return to growth here in 2012.
Our customers seem pleased with our improvement of enhanced anchoring and reduced mobility.
Our Stent business was up 9% in the fourth quarter including LifeStent up 17% from a year ago.
Our new 200-millimeter LifeStent Solo with an improved delivery system and enhanced x-ray visibility increases our advantage over the competition.
We remain the only stent on label in the FSA and we have longer lengths and long-term data that demonstrates excellent performance.
Now let's turn to Urology.
Total net sales were $190.4 million which is up 3% versus Q4 of last year on both a constant-currency and as-reported basis.
The United States business was flat while internationally we were up 9%.
Without the acquisition of Medivance in the middle of the quarter we would have seen global urology sales slightly down when compared to the prior year quarter.
While we're only a couple of months past the close of the Medivance acquisition we're pleased with the sales execution and integration so far which is ahead of our models.
Our basic drainage business was up 3% in the fourth quarter driven by a strong quarter in Japan.
The United States business was down 1%.
I.C.
Foley saw the same geographical relationship with global sales up 2% while the United States was down 3%.
So we haven't seen any change in the factors impacting the United States market here.
Our Continence business was down 16% in Q4 with half of the impact coming from the second quarter 2011 discontinuation of our bulking agent Contigen.
As you may have seen the area of surgical and Continence products for women is under intense scrutiny by the FDA.
While we're in discussions with the FDA on what additional data may be required I'd like to point out that the United States sales of the affected products represent less than 1/2 of 1% of our total sales.
Within Continence we did launch our next-generation fecal management system DIGNISHIELD this month and the early response from clinicians has been very positive.
Sales in neurological specialties were down 2% with brachytherapy up 1% for the quarter as the growing international business is now larger than the declining United States business.
And finally our StatLock catheter stabilization line was up 2% this quarter.
Let's move to oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $201.4 million an increase of 6% over the fourth quarter last year on both constant-currency and as-reported basis.
Net sales in the United States were up 5% while outside the United States sales were up 10%.
Our Port line which represents about 32% of our total oncology sales were up 3% versus the fourth quarter last year.
PICC revenue growth was 7% in the fourth quarter with continued strong performance in emerging markets.
We provided quite a bit of detail on our last couple of meetings on the success of the Sapiens' rollout and I can tell you that success continues.
Our vascular access ultrasound product line was up 18% this quarter.
We are pleased with our growing presence in this market as the installed base of these systems is an important factor in our ability to help expand the placement of PICCs by nurses at the bedside.
And to complete the results in oncology our dialysis catheter business was up 7% in the fourth quarter.
So let's finish our revenue discussions with the surgical specialty segment.
Net sales in this category were $116.6 million in the fourth quarter up 2% on both an as-reported and a constant-currency basis.
United States sales increased 1% while international sales were up 4%.
Our soft tissue repair business grew 3% overall for the quarter.
Our total synthetic hernia products were up 7% versus Q4 last year with our synthetic ventral products growing double digits for the second quarter in a row which was the first full quarter of sales for our VENTRIO ST VENTRALEX ST and ECHO PS new product launches while our natural tissue products grew 18% in Q4.
Our hernia fixation business was down 29% in Q4 as the market adjust to 3 players.
We expect to be facing the headwinds of higher comps until the back half of the year in 2012.
Closing out the surgical category our performance irrigation business was down 7% in Q4 and our hemostasis business was down 3%.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to Todd Schermerhorn.
Thanks John.
Let me start by covering the items that affect comparability of our results between periods.
As Tim mentioned we took a charge related to the brachytherapy matter $51 million.
The charge is only partially tax deductible as you can see from the reconciliation of earnings in our press release.
We also had acquisition-related items of $7.9 million related primarily to the 3 deals we closed in Q4 and we had a net reversal of restructuring charges of $1.1 million.
Further deterioration in Europe has caused us to recognize $4.5 million of further impairment on our Greek bonds.
And to finish off the list we recorded income of $16.5 million related to the completion of IRS examinations for the years 2005 to 2007 and the closure of an examination in the U.K.
These items as always are detailed in the notes to the financial statements and the reconciliation accompanying our Q4 earnings release.
Let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $469.8 million or 62.5% of sales for Q4 up 70 basis points sequentially despite new amortization of 30 basis points again sequentially.
Year-over-year price comparisons moderated slightly to 70 basis points of headwind on the revenue line and just under 30 basis points in GP.
So a little less price pressure but not significant enough to suggest a change in trend.
SG&amp;A expenses were $214.2 million for the quarter 28.5% of sales.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A was $210.4 million or 28.0% of sales 50 basis points lower than the prior-year period.
This reflects incremental investments in emerging markets of about 80 basis points offset by the benefit of our prior restructuring activities and across-the-board expense control.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $43.6 million for the fourth quarter 5.8% of sales.
Admittedly a very low quarter for us.
Full year sales at the low end of our guidance has forced us to make tough choices about investing and at least at this point in time the emerging market investments are providing more attractive and faster returns.
Looking forward we expect R&amp;D to increase primarily driven by our investment in drug-coated balloons.
Interest expense was $9.3 million for the fourth quarter up very slightly as our debt increased in Q4 related to the acquisitions.
Other income expense was $60.7 million of expense for the fourth quarter.
On an adjusted basis it was $2.2 million of expense driven mainly by foreign exchange.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 19.9%.
On an adjusted basis it was 27.3% taking us to 28.1% on a full year adjusted basis dead center of our full year guidance.
All in then EPS totaled $1.70 for Q4 excluding items affecting comparability bringing us in at 14.3% EPS growth for the full year on the same basis right on our commitment once again and despite a continuing challenging environment in 2011 especially in the United States.
We repurchased roughly 1.4 million shares of our stock in Q4.
The balance sheet as of December 31 2011 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of $743.5 million versus $967.3 million at September 30 the decrease being driven by the deals in Q4.
For the full year AR days were up 0.7 days and inventory days were down 4.3 days.
Capital expenditures totaled $21.5 million for the quarter and $71.4 million for the year.
On the liability side with the addition of short-term borrowings to finance the deals total debt was $1.213 billion as of December 31 versus $908.9 million at September 30.
Debt to total capital at the end of the fourth quarter was about 40% and total shareholder investment was $1.782 billion at December 31.
Moving onto financial guidance.
We're expecting constant-currency sales growth in the range of 4% to 7% for the first quarter.
From an EPS standpoint the ClearStream and Medivance deals will become more accretive as we move through the year so we see first quarter in the range of $1.53 to $1.57 excluding items affecting comparability if any.
So I'll now turn you back to Tim.
Great.
Thanks Todd.
That does conclude the formal part of the presentation.
I'll now turn the call back to the moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from the line of Larry Keusch with Morgan Keegan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question Tim I think -- or maybe Todd in the third quarter call you mentioned that the price pressure that you were seeing which I think was 110 basis points was really much more of a U.S.
issue.
So I'm wondering if you could talk about if that still holds true and also give us some thoughts on kind of how Europe is tracking for pricing.
Well it is -- it does continue to be a U.S.
issue Larry.
Although the improvement now it's slight but the improvement we saw was also in the U.S.
this period.
As it relates to Europe I didn't know of any real change in the trends.
Maybe John Weiland has...
I think you're right on about it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess Todd I know you're saying that it's too early for a trend on the pricing but any thoughts as to why it may have moderated in the quarter? And I guess the other question for you is on the R&amp;D which again you admitted was somewhat light here and you've talked about the emerging market strategy being a more attractive investment at this point how should we think about the investment for 2012 in R&amp;D? I think you've been targeting 7% but does that make it now not the right way to think about it? I'll handle the R&amp;D part now.
This is Tim.
I wouldn't read too much in the R&amp;D drop-off for the quarter.
It was limited.
There were a couple of specific issues.
Number one we had some redundancy in R&amp;D in the drug-coated balloon area and since we did the acquisition we kind of turned over to Lutonix for that.
So that was part of it.
We did launch a new LifeStent platform which accounted for a chunk of it.
And then we had some -- we actually integrated some R&amp;D with the SenoRx acquisition that had been planned for some period of time.
So it was more of a timing thing and a little bit of lumpiness.
But in terms of the investment going forward that's still a plus for us in terms of something we want to continue to do.
Let's have the rest over to you.
Yes.
And I don't think any of it changes in next year's guidance Larry relative to the 7%.
As it relates to the price in those 2 businesses I mean we're talking about 40 bps.
It's a little hard to parse out.
We certainly are extraordinarily cognizant of price now in all of our businesses I guess as we have been all the way along.
But we're actively looking for places to where we can offset it.
And it may be at least for the current period we found something.
You also have to realize that it's a changing basis period as well.
So we're now compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 and there could have been a change in that period.
So there's a lot of moving parts in that.
I don't know that there's anything really at this point significant enough that we could rely on it analytically going forward.
And our next question today comes from the line of Brooks West representing Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to test on your ability to accelerate emerging market development.
Any thoughts? Could you do an in-country acquisition? Or what are the options there? And then second I wanted to get your reaction to the AngioDynamics-Navilyst deal today.
Any concerns there especially around maybe price headwinds increased price headwinds and PICCs and Ports from a more aggressive competitor? In terms of -- we've always looked for opportunities for business development as it relates to accelerating our emerging markets group.
I will tell you we've been very aggressive on the organic growth side of the investment.
For example we added over 110 people in the fourth quarter of last year of 2011 into the emerging markets.
So our throttle is certainly well down on the pedal to say the least.
On the -- as far as the AngioDynamics-Navilyst I mean it will be interesting to see how those 2 organizations combine.
We noted that Navilyst had not been tremendously successful against us product line versus product line since their spin out of Boston.
I think that's evident by the revenues at the time they were spun out to what they were today at the time of this acquisition.
They will have the bigger footprint in terms of sales forces.
We're cognizant of that.
But I'll tell you we compete really on the product leadership strategy day-in and day-out as opposed to the coverage strategy.
That's how we compete around the world.
And based on the portfolios of products that we see in the market today we don't see any reason to have a different approach.
Our next question will come from Jonathan Palmer with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> First one Todd could you maybe just talk about the sequential improvement of organic growth excluding acquisitions throughout 2011? Because by my math it looks like it's accelerated the last 3 quarters.
I think it looks like 3% to 4% for this period.
I did reconcile it from Q3 to Q4.
I really think Jonathan I think it's really rounding.
I don't think there's a lot of acceleration on organic growth between Q3 and Q4.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then second back to the emerging markets maybe could you guys talk about the number of incremental hires you're looking to add this year and beyond relative to that couple of hundred you've done the last few years? You'll see us -- our strategy is we added them in the fourth quarter which was a major push for us to add that many people.
We're going to see the benefit of that obviously throughout all of 2012 as they get trained and get assimilated.
We do have plans for additional people in those markets.
We're not rolling out what those numbers are for competitive reasons but you can feel assured we continue to invest in those markets.
Line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Guys you've talked quite a bit the last 6 months about the correlation between your business in utilization and physician office visits and it did look like to us that the U.S.
business got stronger for you in the fourth quarter.
Could you just talk about sort of what you're seeing from a utilization perspective here in the fourth quarter and potentially just remind us again what you've factored in from a utilization recovery perspective in the 2012 outlook? Our viewpoint is that we have not seen a tremendous change in the dynamics of the U.S.
market in terms of utilization.
It's early to see the data for fourth quarter for hospitals but there's nothing that we've seen thus far that would suggest to us that there is a resurgence in terms of utilization in the United States markets.
Our attitude as we built our forecasts for 2012 was in essence a constant market dynamics to what we saw in 2012 -- 2011.
So we have not built anything in terms of an escalation into the U.S.
market dynamics.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
And then just a quick modeling question maybe for Todd.
As we look at the 2012 outlook the first quarter -- or I mean recent share repurchase activity I should say has been stronger than we thought.
I know you're going to reduce the share count throughout the balance of the year but could you give us a sense of maybe how you think the pacing of repurchase and the shares outstanding will trend throughout the balance of the year? Well as we indicated we're active in the market in Q4 and the end of Q3.
So that's going to average in on its own.
That will help to push the shares down into Q1.
But David generally we don't commit ourselves to specific levels in each of the periods because as you know our first priority for that capital is strategic acquisitions and we're never quite sure what might come along.
So I really can't give you discrete points there.
But as you know best indicator of our future behavior is what we've done in the past.
We've shown a clear commitment to returning excess cash to shareholders.
It'll just be a question of what hits our radar relative to deals.
And our next question is from the line of Matt Taylor with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I want to follow up on some of the comments on the acquisitions.
It seems like things are going fairly well across the board and you also commented that your strategy really hasn't changed.
Can you give us a little bit more color on the acquisitions you've made? And then also specifically on LEVANT 2.
It seems like that's going a little faster than scheduled.
Is that right? And could that mean a little bit earlier submission? I'll start and I'll let John DeFord give a little bit more commentary on it.
We like the integration of both Medivance and Lutonix into our organization.
I mean all our organizations are highly focused on it.
The Medivance acquisition and its integration from a commercial selling standpoint has gone extremely well.
I think those people feel very comfortable as part of our organization.
They're executing extremely well and our organization has been very complementary to theirs as it relates to the commercial opportunities and the ability to take that technology on a wider footprint.
I'll make one comment on Lutonix and I'll turn it over to John.
And that is as of 4 p.m.
today we have 227 patients enrolled in the study not that we pay attention to that kind of detail but we are obviously focused on how well that is going and the great interest that clinicians have on being part of that trial and enrolling patients in the trial.
And John I'll let you take over from there.
Sure.
So Matt as John said the study is going along quite well at this point and we're very happy with the Lutonix team and where this is taking us.
Although to say that it might give us a little bit of shorter time line on the regulatory filing would be a little premature at this point.
There's a lot of things that go into that.
It's not just the clinical data.
And so at this point we're sticking to our 2015 date 2014 submission.
If we think that that's materially going to change we'll obviously let you know as time goes on.
But it's a little too early to tell at this point.
We're obviously happy with the way things are going.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And anything broadly that you would call out that's changed since we met in December with everyone? No.
I think everything's pretty much on track to what we talked about a month ago.
Next question today comes from the line of Michael Matson Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> Yes just given how volatile exchange rates have been I was wondering if you could just remind us what your currency exposure is on the bottom line.
I think you do have some bottom line currency exposure.
And then if the euro were to continue to weaken where do you think it would start to become a problem for you to absorb that and offset it? And maybe in your guidance.
Yes sure.
We planned 2012 with the euro in the high $1.30 range and I think pound at $1.60.
And at the current rates at $1.31 and $1.55 we did the math a couple of times.
We did in December for you.
And now we're still looking at 1% maybe or a little less than 1% in terms of the change with what maybe 8 or 9 points change in the euro.
So that kind of gives you a sensitivity in the model.
It's not easy or not fun to find 1% but it is manageable here.
If we were to move another 10 points then it starts getting painful admittedly.
But as it stands now I think it would be at a manageable level.
It's kind of bounced off of $1.26 $1.27 the euro has.
And it seems a little steadier at $1.31 but who knows? Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know that you've got a atrial fibrillation product on the market in Europe and you've got in your pipeline in the U.S.
But just given the size and the growth of that market is that something where you have an interest in maybe doing more M&amp;A or doing M&amp;A to begin with to try to broaden out the product offering or even potentially developing additional products internally to get to the market maybe a little quicker than -- I don't remember the name of the product but the afib product that you've got you've talked about? We're in the obviously the very early stages of that real patient usage.
And as it relates to the M&amp;A side of things I mean each of our businesses is chartered with looking for opportunities from an M&amp;A standpoint that's complementary to their business but which meets our hurdles in terms of product leadership and growth potential.
So there's no business that's excluded from that caveat in our organization.
Our next question today comes from the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can I follow up the R&amp;D discussion? And specifically if I went back a couple of years ago to the planned increase in spending in R&amp;D it hasn't materialized to a degree to which I think we all anticipated and the fact that we look at R&amp;D as a percent of sales it was actually lower in 2011 than it was in 2009.
So the comment about the spend in 2012 is understood.
I was hoping you could maybe back out Lutonix and give us a sense for what R&amp;D spending looks like in 2012 x not only Lutonix but the rest of the acquisitions.
So x acquisitions what's the plan for R&amp;D spend? It would be low 6% I think or it was the calculation Mike.
Research Division</strong> That would be the 2012 math? Yes.
Without Lutonix without...
Research Division</strong> And that's helpful.
So if we think about the investments going forward in the Bard base the pre-deals does that grow? Or is it the thought that the incremental R&amp;D spend going forward for the company is principally going to be tied to these acquisitions and in additional acquisitions the company may make? No it will grow.
I mean it's selective.
And as we mentioned we're focused on areas where we think there's good growth double-digit growth preferably.
So we're making more selective decisions kind of in between businesses if you will or even within product lines to allocate resources into those areas where we think there are going to be good growth.
So clearly we're not investing at the level we said a couple of years ago.
When we made that statement our top line was growing at a much faster level than we are right now.
So we're a little bit restricted there.
But the theme if you will is still to invest in the faster growing opportunities we have both internally and the ones we acquired which we view as platforms to invest in.
Research Division</strong> Let me ask one price-related question.
Could you just talk about the health of the hernia repair market and in particular what pricing is looking like in synthetics and fixation? If we look at the hernia repair market and specifically the new product launches that we've had in the hernia repair space over the last number of quarters the whole VENTRALEX VENTRALIGHT ST product lines as well as the VENTRALIGHT and the composite with ECHO product lines we see great opportunity based on the additional benefits that they offer to physicians to upsell with those product lines.
I think that as you know where we've had our trouble recently is in the fixation lines.
We had a third entrance into that market from a competitive standpoint.
We see our -- after that initial impact we've seen that level out at this point in time but it will take us a couple more quarters to get through the difficult comps that we're going to have in the first quarter and second quarter of 2012.
Research Division</strong> And John how would you describe pricing in fixation and in synthetics at this point? I'd say very stable.
A question comes from the line of Miroslava Minkova with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> It's Miroslava for Rick today.
Let me start with just following up on surgery.
I appreciate the new products there and synthetics doing a lot stronger and fixation but your guidance actually calls for an acceleration besides the fixation comps getting easier towards year end.
What are the drivers to I suppose accelerate your outlook there? The accelerators are all those new products that I mentioned as well as some additional new products that we have in the biological space that we're launching right now.
I mean all the ST products and those products combined with ECHO all of those are one new physician user at a time type products.
So your sales force is there.
They're out talking to physicians.
They're detailing the products trying to convince one case at a time one physician at a time.
And that momentum builds over a long period of time as you convert one physician or one user after another.
So that plus the fixation comps and we think our ability with our XENMATRIX line they would really be the growth drivers for us in 2012 to get acceleration.
Research Division</strong> Great that's very helpful.
And just a follow-up on emerging markets can you remind us where -- what percentage of sales is emerging markets today? And with the investments that you're making where do you see it going? The emerging market today are 5% of our sales.
We don't have any upward limit to what that can mean for us in terms of percentage.
And I should have added to your last question the emerging market growths in our surgery business will also have a positive impact on our accelerating growth rates as we continue to roll products out and get deeper with our launches in emerging markets.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And my final question gross margins did improve sequentially for the first time this year despite the additional amortization.
Maybe if you could tease out the drivers a little bit and how are you positioned as you head into the year? You did guide to I think some year-on-year decline including the amortization.
Yes.
I think I would call it a [indiscernible] quarter Miroslava.
I don't think we saw anything we weren't expecting.
Cost was the major improvement factor from Q3 to Q4 when we look at it sequentially.
But I don't see anything in these results that change the guidance that we gave.
I think the one thing you have to realize is so this quarter we talked about 30 basis points sequentially of increased amortization.
But that will grow to 70 because we only have the deals for a possible period in Q4.
So that will weigh that 62.5 down and that's kind of how we get to the guidance we gave you for 2012.
The next question today comes from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to go back on the acquisition impact in the quarter based upon I guess some of the commentary in the prepared remarks.
I just wanted to make sure that the numbers are right.
I think you had mentioned that within the Endovascular business it added 2 percentage points of growth.
So that I guess it's roughly like $3 million.
And then it sounded like within Urology Medivance added or would have been slightly flat versus up 3% so it looks like that was 6%.
And I'm a little bit surprised by those numbers.
I don't know if I'm doing the math wrong but I would have thought Clearstream would have been a little bit more and maybe Medivance a little less.
I don't know if you can comment on that.
Well I think you're pretty close with your numbers.
As to exactly what those values should be we're going through the transition of an acquisition here.
It's not always intuitive those first couple of weeks and how we get organized around them.
I don't think we're at all off target relative to our own expectations.
And I think we're pretty clear about what that means next year.
We're talking about 2% to the total value next year.
And I'm not sure Kristen did we ever say the dates that we did each one of those things? So you'd have to actually extrapolate the days to get a real good sense of that closing date.
So I guess net-net your numbers are close and we consider them pretty much on track relative to our models.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just thinking about emerging markets is there one particular product category or area where your emerging markets are a little bit more? I don't know if it's a little more emerging markets in things like Urology or I know you cited surgical as being a growth driver.
But do we think about that 5% as being sprinkled across all the major business units or focused on any one particular? You're seeing great growth in all 4 of our major segments.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just kind of real big picture kind of going off of the R&amp;D lower R&amp;D.
Just thinking about the outlook for mix going forward one of the arguments that you had a couple of years back on the higher R&amp;D spend was the inability to bring incremental products to market and get value from that.
So how concerned are you now kind of on a go-forward basis with a low-level spending in that low 6% just in terms of your ability to bring products to market and get pricing premiums since nothing has really changed in terms of the FDA's requirements or hospitals' desire to look at more and more data to substantiate pricing premiums? Yes.
I'll start and then I'll hand it over to John DeFord.
Our ability -- our view is this that you've got to have a compelling value proposition with new technologies that you bring out there.
I think last year we did 51 clinical trials something like that John DeFord? Yes yes.
And maybe 30% to 40% of those were for regulatory approvals.
So the rest were to generate this data both clinical and economic data.
And I think to the extent that you can do that and show that you've got a compelling value proposition you can continue to charge for that.
Relative to the FDA there were a couple of issues last year we had and a couple of --  well it actually goes back 2 years relative to some coating technology changes the way they view things.
Our Vena Cava Filter was delayed for about a year.
But other than that we've done pretty well with the FDA in terms of our own expectations.
The only thing I'd add to that is I wouldn't get too hung up on the percentage number here Kristen.
I mean the reality of it is we've got very strong share positions around the world in all our major businesses.
And when you look at the amount of R&amp;D dollars that we spend across each of our 4 major segments with those dominant market share positions I mean somebody's got to outspend you that has a very low position in the market to beat you.
And that's a very difficult dynamic in today's market to really get your arms around in our mind.
Now having said that we're looking at every major product line that we're in and seeing what's the next generation of product leadership that we need to invest in.
But I wouldn't get too hung up on 6.3% versus 7% of R&amp;D.
Research Division</strong> Should we just think about it as the maybe natural maturity of your products and that your view is that incremental introductions across the base business are just not warranted so why spend the money? And you're obviously putting a lot more into acquisitions and obviously looking across areas and just saying it's not worth the incremental level anymore we're just not going to get out of it and appropriately investing elsewhere.
Is that the right way to think about it? I wouldn't walk away with the takeaway here that we've got a change in strategy.
I mean the goal here has been to invest in growth areas.
We continue to do that as we do with the acquisition targets that we go after as well.
So it's all about chasing growth and that's both from an internal R&amp;D investment and as well as acquisition.
So nothing will change strategically there.
Yes nothing's changed strategically Kristen.
But we certainly are looking at our projects with a much finer eye.
We're being I'd say a little more selective.
We're certainly much more involved.
The senior team here in reviewing the projects and the portfolio and evaluating those.
So that slows things down a little bit.
That changes the emphasis a little bit and we're obviously raising the bar on what projects we'll do internally.
So that certainly does have an impact.
And in the kind of market dynamics we have we've got to be selective.
And with the kind of growth that we've seen so far again we've got a whole piece of business here that we got to manage broadly and that impacts what we can do.
There's no doubt that I'd like to spend more on R&amp;D.
We've got a balance of that and I think we're doing a good job of doing that balance right now.
David Roman.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Topher Orr in for David.
I was wondering if you could talk about competition in emerging markets.
I know relative to some of the more high-tech implantable devices competition levels in these regions notably China are pretty -- are getting higher especially for some of the more basic supply categories.
So I was wondering if you could just kind of go through your 4 main product categories and just talk about competition levels that you've experienced so far in these markets for each.
I don't -- if you look at the United States market and look at the major players that we compete against in the United States market they are the same players you're going to see in our markets where we compete at in China.
You'll have some local Chinese manufacturers at the very low end of the technology scale which is where we're not concentrating quite frankly.
But it's the same individuals and the same organizations that we compete against in the United States.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So from a technology standpoint it's more of your higher-tech products that you're bringing into these markets first? Yes.
We have brought mid-tier products with the potential and with the strategic viewpoint to move up over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one question.
I know everybody has been talking about the R&amp;D component here but if I could just ask it a different way.
I know you said 51 new products more or less have been brought --  you guys have brought to market in 2011 and going back to your Analyst Day I know that you said the pacing of some products notably within surgical specialties had been delayed relative to say 2010.
As we look to 2012 would you say the number of new products should mirror that of 2010 levels? Or should it remain in that 2011 area? Well so 2011 was a pretty big year for us frankly.
We had 51 new product introductions.
See we've sort of over the years historically been sort of in the low- to mid-30s new products a year.
And in 2012 we're kind of in that same ballpark sort of in the mid-30s is what we're anticipating with -- obviously that 2011 we had some acquisitions in there that added some new products.
I think if you look organically we were sort of in the high-30s last year for organic new products that we've launched.
So kind of in that same ballpark is what we'd expect in 2012.
Our next question comes from the line of Joanne Wuensch with BMO Capital Markets.
Do we have anything new on the Gore litigation front? No.
That was an easy one.
Other income expense was somewhat higher than I expected.
Is that a go-forward rate? No.
It bounces around.
The $2 million -- it was $2.2 million net once you take out the items of effective comparability.
So it just happens currency bounces around Joanne and it could be $2 million up one period and $2 million down the next.
So there's no pattern there.
So that's where your FX hedges are going? Yes.
Some not all of them.
But that's where parts of them go yes.
Okay.
And a lot of companies have begun to talk about 2013 and how they're going to manage the med tech tax.
Would you like to throw your hat in the ring on that one? Well we threw our hat in we don't have a silver bullet for it.
That's for sure.
We'll see what happens from a policy standpoint et cetera et cetera.
But we don't have any answer for that at the moment no.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Tim can you give us your updated thoughts on Europe? The growth area has been fairly stable over the last couple of quarters.
How confident are you given what you're seeing in the world that that stability can continue throughout 2012? Well Europe is a little bit interesting especially when you compare it to the United States.
We're not seeing the volatility in Europe that we're seeing in the U.S.
And I think in large part -- although obviously government is under some fiscal constraints individuals there for the most part don't have to worry about deductibles out-of-pocket costs and so on maybe they'll tell you got to come back next week or next month for a procedure.
But the healthcare expenditures on their priority list is fairly high over there.
So not great growth but fairly stable compared to what we've been seeing over the last several quarters certainly as it compares to the United States.
So we don't see any significant change there although obviously the whole situation over there could blow up tomorrow which could throw everything up in the air.
We just can't predict that.
But as it's been so far it's been more steady than what we've seen in the U.S.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And for Europe for 2012 you forecast kind of low double digit -- I'm sorry low single-digit growth? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then a couple -- 2 quick non-fundamental questions.
Just back on Gore what's your best estimate on timing? It's totally out of our control.
The appeal was heard and we are just waiting for a result.
And so the next thing you hear from us will be the results of that appeal.
But there are three-judge panel.
When they rule is completely unknown at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Tim just lastly on the release you guys put out a couple of weeks ago regarding the new board seat and ValueAct.
I'm just curious to the degree that you're willing to comment or able to comment on that situation.
And the reason I asked is that we've always thought of Bard as one of the strongest if not the strongest operating company in the medical device space with good margins and it has been returning capital to shareholders.
And I'm just curious if you could comment on that announcement and perhaps the value proposition that ValueAct is thinking about? Sure.
I can say a few things about it.
First of all I'd say we've had a very positive relationship with ValueAct since they've been shareholders.
Frankly we don't talk about our discussions with any shareholders with other shareholders so no comment on that.
Secondly I would say we don't anticipate any change at all in the strategic direction of the company as it relates to this and we determined that given where things stood it was in the best interest of our shareholders to add them to our board in a cooperative fashion.
So that's about all I have to say about that.
But I don't anticipate any changes there.
And you can see the agreement that we have with them that was filed publicly as well.
So I don't anticipate any change there.
We will go to Jason Wittes' line representing Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things first off I know there's been a lot of questions about R&amp;D and it sounds like you're refocusing a little bit more on emerging markets.
A lot of your competitors are really looking at this as a growth driver.
In fact some of the companies are expected to get half their growth from emerging markets.
Are you guys looking to up the ante and get that aggressive? And what kind of -- you're 5% now what type of outlook should we have for the next say 3 or 4 years from emerging markets? More.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> More of course.
But...
Yes I know.
Look as we mentioned we've added over 300 people there over the last 3 years and we'll continue to invest there across all fronts infrastructure sales people training specifically product registrations.
It's kind of a fundamental basic blocking and tackling there.
But we're going to go where the growth is and the growth is there right now.
We see it's a great opportunity for us going forward.
And this is nothing new for us.
We started these investments back in 2007.
We started to build these businesses that they've just gotten into a meaningful size now and the results are meaningful enough that it has an impact on the overall growth rate of the corporation.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can we assume that there's a slight bump in SG&amp;A as a result of this? And so near term it's slightly dilutive with a little bit of a delay until you get the infrastructure in place with the block and tackling? There's a little dilution next year.
But as we've talked about in December that's really coming more from the deals than the investment in emerging markets plus we're doing both.
So it's hard to say which one actually tipped the scale.
But I would say we've been doing the emerging market investments as John said going on 3 4 years now and some of those have size and have been affording them nicely albeit against 3 years of restructuring.
We had some nice savings from those restructurings and we call that a reallocation of resources.
We were restructuring where we could and then putting the money into emerging markets in a relatively large way.
So I think so far the point is we've been able to afford it within our P&amp;L and I think we would attempt to continue to do that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So basically you're still finessing through the P&amp;L but not necessarily making an incremental big step-up this year for that opportunity? No we gave you our guidance for next year for SG&amp;A.
It was up 50 bps as a percent of sales.
But as I said I think we said at the time that the deals deleverage SG&amp;A by 80 bps.
So if you do those adjustments even with the big geographic investments we were still leveraging SG&amp;A on an organic basis if you will.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could just ask quickly about vascular pricing because my understanding looking at the last --  the sequential sort of drop in the U.S.
market from the third quarter -- from the second quarter to the third quarter a big piece of that was pricing and a big part of that pricing was actually within vascular.
So what is the outlook? What did it look like this quarter and what is sort of the outlook for 2012 for you guys for vascular? I think vascular will continue to have some pricing headwinds added.
I mean it's a pretty competitive space with large players in it.
So we think we'll continue to have some pricing pressure within that segment.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys quantitate at all the impact for vascular specifically on pricing? Or is that a little too much detail? Yes.
I'm not sure we want to get into the specific product lines and what's going on in pricing in each one of those.
It doesn't really help us competitively per se.
I think as John said we probably will continue to have price pressure there.
The other side of that equation is they had a great period in stents and that's about LifeStent and it's about 200-millimeter stents.
So there's still the opportunity to upsell when you have unique technology.
And we're doing it there.
So it's a little bit of both worlds.
I think the biggest indicator that I would give you is we have 40 large GPO contracts in the United States that were up last year for renegotiation.
We re-signed all 40.
I mean it shows you that even if pricing pressure is on it's coming from the outside we still are able to maintain very rigorously our share opportunities with our key customers.
We'll go to Matthew O'Brien with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I was just hoping to dig in a bit more on a couple of questions that have been asked.
With respect to the emerging markets and given how well they've been doing recently is it a function more of just adding more product to the bag that all those new people have in place now? And if you are to characterize it that way what percentage of your portfolio do you believe you'll eventually sell there? Where are we at today? And then how should we think about exiting 2012? No I don't think it's as simplistic as just adding more products to the bag.
I mean it really starts with building the infrastructure then it starts with geographical expansion.
And quite frankly if you look at geographically where we are versus what the potential is in key markets we're only 1/3 of the way let's say where we want to be in terms of being able to fully coverage large pieces of geography that we want to get great penetrations.
Then it comes down to execution.
The sales execution training of our sales forces training of physicians and clinicians and then thirdly or fourthly it would be adding new products and further generations of technology that you can show the additional benefits to patients once you bring clinicians up the technology curve.
So it's a series of execution moves on all of those fronts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But when you're thinking about those markets today given how new you are to most of those territories would it be fair to characterize it as more of a low hanging fruit kind of opportunity? Or is there going to be a lot of market development activity that needs to go along with it? No.
I think that in each one of these markets we've spoken about the fact that we loved the market development aspect of it.
For example PICCs in China.
PICCs weren't used in China until we started developing the markets and teaching nurses how they can place PICCs in the market.
So an awful lot of it is clinician training market development sales force development sales force training.
I mean it's a whole -- it's really -- there's not one issue that you hang your hat on when you want to go build these markets.
To that point we certainly are very much investing in getting new products into these markets so no question about that.
And I think John was pointing that out.
We've got a lot more focus there and just like John said there's a lot of training that's required.
And so we're deeply involved with that as we focus on getting some new products in there as well but through a regulatory time frame in some of these emerging markets are not short either.
So it's all part of the execution strategy.
Research Division</strong> Understood very helpful.
The other question that I have was just following up on an earlier question on the excise tax.
Tim when you think about things going forward and I know you don't want to get into '13 guidance at this point but on a more normalized basis excluding the headwinds you're facing with Lutonix this year on the bottom line inclusive of the excise tax and with the end markets growing at about these levels can you generate double-digit EPS growth? We'll give guidance for next year in December of this year.
And next we will go to Anthony Petrone's line representing Jeffrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One for Tim just in terms of the M&amp;A strategy how you look at that.
Can you speak to the strategy as it relates to maturity of assets? I guess specifically looking at Lutonix and to a lesser extent Medivance they seem to be more early stage adding to R&amp;D more than immediate revenue growth.
So when you look at that going forward does that reverse? And then a couple of follow-ups for John and John just on some products timing for COVERT PowerPICC and 3CG if we can get an update there.
And then in the past year you've given updates on Sapiens the trial funnel for Sapiens.
I believe a few quarters back it was around 200 and it takes about 2 to 4 months for hospitals to trial.
So any updates there would be helpful.
Sure.
I'll take the first 2 then I'll pass to the others.
Relative to the deals Medivance was a business already with revenue existing and we had quoted that revenue growing in excess of 20% annually.
So existing business with revenue yes there's R&amp;D and we talked about some of the other indications that we're going to chase there and we'll continue to invest in that.
And then Lutonix clearly is almost all R&amp;D at the moment although we did say we would launch at the back end of this year in Europe with the big expectation of the U.S.
launch in 2015.
But there's significant R&amp;D there with the clinical trials et cetera.
And frankly we're already investing in further indications for that technology within the vascular space.
So there'll be a lot of R&amp;D in that area.
I turn it over to you guys for the other questions.
I'll just make a brief comment on Sapiens and John can comment.
First of all I'd say that we talked about the number of accounts that we were in December and we haven't stopped there obviously.
We continue to grow that base pretty substantially and we believe that there's well over 100 000 x-rays that have now been eliminated for patients in the United States.
And that value for patients even more so than the economic value to hospitals has great resiliency with those clinicians that are making decisions on what PICCs should be placed in their institutions.
I'd also add that there's a tremendous amount of excitement pent-up for what we believe will be a great product in the 5 French Triple Lumen PICC as well.
Yes.
So then Anthony just commenting on COVERT PowerPICC that [indiscernible] is right on the verge of going in which was a discussion we've had in December.
So we're excited about getting that in and engaging with FDA.
We think we got a good plan there.
On the 3CG we are right on track.
We said we anticipate of launching that in the first half of the year and that's still our plan right now.
And then getting that into the OUS markets later in the year.
So I think both of those programs are right on track from where we said in December.
And we didn't give a date on launch for COVERT Power PICC just because we know FDA has got a lot more sensitivity around these coatings and we expect to have a little bit of back and forth in discussions with them.
But I think we got a good plan.
And next we'll go to the line of Suraj Kalia with Rodman &amp; Renshaw.
LLC Research Division</strong> Tim just have a very macro-level question.
And I know this is a tough one but I'll still ask.
Given the differential price elasticity of demand in U.S.
Europe and the emerging markets is the strategy in emerging markets still to maintain price leadership? And I guess the sub-part of that is what are the lessons learned from the developed markets whether it's for market share sales or whatever that you think are translatable to the emerging markets? I'm just trying to understand what we know from some of these markets at least anecdotally and how Bard looks at this and the prospects for let's say the next 2 to 4 years.
Sure.
Let me just simply say that in the emerging markets the thirst for high-technology high-quality best-in-class products is as high as it is anywhere else in the world.
And people are prepared to pay for that.
So we're -- it's a little bit counterintuitive perhaps but we're very pleased with our ability to -- in fact there may be even more of an appreciation for the features and benefits of newer technology because it is new than there may be even in some of the more developed markets.
And next we'll go to the line of Greg Hertz with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Greg Hertz here calling for Matt.
Couple of questions one on the PICC side of things.
Can you maybe talk a bit about how Sapien has improved your economics at the hospitals where you've launched? I know you probably don't want to divulge a lot of detail there but obviously you're providing a fair amount of value in terms of cost savings for the hospitals.
So if you could share anything I'd appreciate it.
Sure.
I'd say that the overall if you look at the economics and how it's improved when you think about eliminating an x-ray eliminating having to move a patient from whatever ward they're in or whatever room they're in up to radiology having the x-ray done the cost of the x-ray moving it down having the x-ray then go to interventional radiology to be read having that communicated back to the floor and then finally having therapy delivered to patients the economics are really driven by all of that movement of the patients but really on a hard cost basis on eliminating the x-ray itself and the need for the interventional radiologists to read that.
The patient benefit is obviously the eliminating of the x-ray and the harmful form of radiation.
But most importantly and this is what's really resonating with customers and clinicians the ability to get therapy very quickly to the patient.
I was in an account yesterday a very sophisticated hospital system that it takes up to 12 hours once the PICC is placed for them to have x-ray confirmation from interventional radiology and for them to start to receive therapy.
Think about those patients that are critically ill and to be able to get them their therapy 8 10 12 hours earlier.
That's what's really resonating with clinicians here about what it does to patient treatment.
The economics are great but the patient treatment side of it is very very very high on the radar screen.
Research Division</strong> But could you maybe quantify a little bit more in terms of how it's helping your company and perhaps something like a same-store sales figure with respect to the oncology business specifically? I think we said that we were in over 200 accounts and when we met in December that's well north of that at this point in time.
We've said we have 87 accounts in the United States that eliminated x-ray altogether already within that framework.
So this is moving pretty quick and we like what we see.
So I think if you're -- Greg if you're asking for the upcharge that we have on this that's not something we're going to give detail on but we certainly do get an upcharge for this technology...
Pull-through.
And pull-through yes.
Research Division</strong> All right.
We got you.
Maybe just shifting over to fixation which to me it seems like a bit of a challenging area to differentiate among the different tacking products but maybe that's just the layperson's view.
But at the same time it also seems a little difficult to craft a trial to allow on-label sales of biosurgicals that are more widespread and used in Europe.
So how do you think about developing the pipeline in fixation? And is there really a way to bring biosurgicals to the U.S.
for use in hernia repair? Well I think we do have and I think we talked a little bit about in December at least we alluded to a couple other products under development in our fixation pipeline.
Obviously the ability to use fixation products paired with biologically dry materials which I think is what you're saying is a piece that hasn't happened to a great extent yet.
Obviously it's something on the radar screen.
And like I said we've got a couple of things that we're working on in the pipeline.
But that's become an extremely competitive space not one that we want to broadcast too widely where we're headed and what we're planning.
So I'm not going to not -- just really not in a position to give you a lot of detail there.
The other part of your question I think on biologically derived materials in Europe is another question altogether because of the regulatory cycle.
And so that's another thing that we're looking into how we can get some of our products into some of those other markets.
And we'll go to Robert Goldman's line with CL King.
[Operator Instructions] Inc.</strong> Two questions.
The first Todd if you wouldn't mind just reiterating first what your annual earnings per share guidance is for 2012? And then the other question also relates to the question on ValueAct.
But Tim 2 things on that.
One from your perspective what does ValueAct bring to the table as a new member of the board? And secondly the agreement that you have with ValueAct as I read it does seem to restrict what they can do relative to Bard's potential to being acquired.
And I'm wondering if that restriction exists for all Bard board members? I'll talk about the guidance first and mine is the simplest.
The guidance is 3% to 4% EPS growth Bob all in.
Inc.</strong> And that's off of what base again Todd? Well the $6.40 now.
It was $6.38 originally but we outperformed by $0.02.
Yes.
In terms of ValueAct they own roughly 7% of the company.
We've got 12 board members so that represents roughly their share if you want to think about it that way.
In terms of the value that they add their thesis is to help companies that they've invested in.
We look forward to working with them in that capacity.
And the agreement in terms of what we agreed to with them speaks for itself and that's been publicly disclosed so I don't have anything else to say about that.
Inc.</strong> And no comment on if that exists for the other board members as well? In a written agreement if there were any other written agreements we would file those as well.
So that's the only one we have.
Next question comes from the line of Jayson Bedford representing Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quickies.
You guys have done a nice job of rightsizing the business over the past couple of years to reflect a slower growth environment.
Just wondering where are you with your restructuring programs meaning outside of the sales force realignment? Do you have any active initiatives ongoing that you could benefit from going forward? I think that the --  we don't have any active programs that we're announcing at this point in time nor do we have any big tricks up our sleeve.
We always focus very very succinctly on our plants around the world and look for driving efficiencies drive our manufacturing operations moving into tax-advantaged and low manufacturing cost environments.
And we'll continue to do that as we have historically.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just maybe a product line question.
On the Biologics soft tissue business it looked like growth picked up nicely in the quarter.
Just wondering whether that's from hernia breast? And then in which market do you think you have the most running room going forward? We had a very strong quarter in breast.
We think we have still great growth opportunities there.
But also we think with some of the new product launches that we have in the XENMATRIX area that will also help us accelerate growth.
And we'll go to Kristen Stewart's line with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Quick question.
Todd just a real quick one.
I just wanted to make sure I understood the year-to-year impacts of the gross margin change.
I know you talked a little bit about sequentially but year-to-year I imagined the total amortization was that also 30? Yes.
That's why I asked Miroslava whether I was clear.
We didn't get all the amortization into the fourth quarter so we said it was 30 points of additional amortization that we moved from Q3 to Q4.
But for next year that number for the year is 70.
So I suspect it will be about 70 as we get into the first quarter which will push that 62.5 down a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But just looking at 4Q '10 versus '11 the year-to-year comps the 63.3 versus the 62.5 I guess pricing was a little more negative and that incremental amortization as well? Yes.
Amortization foreign exchange was 20 bps.
Pricing was 30 bps.
Mix isn't that much favorable year-over-year but we added between 0 and 10 basis points.
We had that Puerto Rico excise tax issue Kristen which took 20 basis points out of it.
And So you add all that up you end up with cost kind of 10 to 20 basis points favorable.
Not a great cost quarter year-over-year but simply because Q4 of 2010 was very very strong.
There are no additional questions.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Bard's management for closing or additional comments.
Great thank you.
First of all I'd like to take this opportunity to thank Bard employees around the world for their hard work and dedication for a successful 2011.
And I'd like to thank all of you for taking the time to join us today and we'll be talking to you at the end of the quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the C.
R.
Bard Inc.
First Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through Bard's website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with Jay H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Todd C.
Schermerhorn Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information and the information under the caption Risk Factors each in Bard's 2011 10-K including disclosures of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performances of the company and its individual product franchises.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings press release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of April 24 2012 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information.
Unless otherwise noted all comparisons are to the prior year period.
At this time I will turn the call over to Mr.
Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everybody.
I'd like to welcome you to Bard's first quarter 2012 earnings call and thank you all for taking the time to join us today.
I'd expect the presentation portion of the call to last about 30 minutes.
The agenda today will go as follows.
I'll begin with an overview of the results for the first quarter of 2012.
John Weiland our President and COO will review first quarter product line revenue.
Todd Schermerhorn our Senior VP and CFO will review the first quarter income statement and balance sheet as well as our expectations for the second quarter.
John DeFord our Senior VP Science Technology and Clinical Affairs will then provide an update on our product development pipeline.
And then finally we'll close with a question-and-answer period.
First quarter 2012 net sales totaled $730 million.
That's up 4% over Q1 of last year on an as-reported basis and up 5% on a constant-currency basis.
Currency impact for the quarter versus Q1 of last year was unfavorable by about 40 basis points.
Net income for the first quarter of 2012 was $138.7 million and diluted earnings per share were $1.60.
Excluding items that affected the comparability of results between periods which Todd will cover later first quarter 2012 net income and diluted EPS were $139.5 million and $1.61 up 4% and 7% respectively.
We're off to a good start this year which Todd will put in perspective for you when he discusses this quarter's financial performance and our guidance for the second quarter.
Looking at revenue growth geographically compared to last year first quarter net sales in the U.S.
increased 2% while internationally we grew an impressive 11%.
In Europe we were up 6% on a constant-currency basis.
Japan had a particularly strong quarter growing 19% which included some benefit from a competitor's quality issue in stents that John Weiland will address a little later.
Our other international businesses grew 15% in constant currency driven by a 29% growth in our emerging markets.
On the business development front we don't have any new deals coming up at this time but I can tell you that the transactions we closed in the fourth quarter last year are proceeding as planned.
We told you that we had expected ClearStream and Medivance together to contribute about 200 basis points of growth this year and that was their impact on the first quarter.
Later you'll hear John DeFord's update at the LEVANT 2 trial from the Lutonix acquisition continues its rapid enrollment and is going according to our plans.
So in summary I'd characterize the first quarter as a good start to the year.
While we still haven't seen much change in the U.S.
environment our increased focused in investments in international markets are providing rapid returns and strengthening our growth profile.
We remain focused on daily execution of our product leadership strategy to take advantage of the opportunities in front of us while positioning ourselves for stronger growth in the future.
Before I turn the call over to John Weiland I wanted to give you an update on the Gore litigation.
As most of you know on February 10 the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the District Court's decision in our favor.
Gore has since filed a petition requesting a rehearing of the case so we're currently waiting to find out if there will be further hearings or not.
In the meantime we're in the process of evaluating alternatives for the use of these potential funds in the best interest of shareholders.
As we've told you in the past we intend to invest approximately half of the earnings power associated with the favorable ruling in the growth programs for the business.
The timing of potential resolution of this case remains uncertain.
Having said that we think the most likely scenario is a final resolution late this year and at that time we expect to provide further details about the use of funds.
With that let me turn you over to John Weiland for a review of our product line revenue.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start let me point out that I will be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior-year period on a constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
So let's begin with vascular.
Growth in this category was 6% for the quarter.
Total net sales were $209.2 million up 5% over last year on an as-reported basis.
Our U.S.
business was up 2% for the quarter while internationally we grew 13%.
Our Electrophysiology sales were down 1% for the quarter as EP lab systems were up 4% while our disposable EP product lines were down 2%.
Sales in our surgical graft category were down 4% in Q1 consistent with recent experience.
Our Endovascular business increased 9% in the first quarter.
Within endovascular our biopsy products were up 8%.
We're now 3 months away from the second anniversary of the SenoRx acquisition and we continue to see strong growth from these products at 20% globally in Q1 with the international results being especially impressive.
Sales in our peripheral PTA line increased 8% with about 400 basis points coming from the addition of the products in the ClearStream acquisition with over half of those sales outside the United States.
Within PTA our Chronic Total Occlusion or CTO product line continues to grow nicely in the 40% range.
Sales in our Vena Cava Filter Line were down 5% in Q1.
We expect to return to growth later this year as our new Meridian filter launched in Q4 of last year changes the trajectory of this product line.
Our Stent business grew 14% in Q1 with LifeStent growing 22%.
As Tim mentioned we benefited this quarter from a competitor's quality issue especially in Japan.
It's very difficult to quantify the exact global impact on the quarter and we're not sure how long their disruption will last.
We're doing all we can to make sure our customers have the product they need and we're taking advantage of this opportunity to highlight the quality reliability and clinical proof of Bard's portfolio.
Let's go to Urology.
Total net sales were $185.1 million up 3% versus Q1 of last year on both a constant currency and an as-reported basis.
The United States business grew 1% while internationally we grew 9%.
Our new targeted temperature management products were off to a good start accounting for about 550 basis points of the global growth for the total category.
So the legacy urology business actually declined in the quarter.
Our basic drainage business was flat globally in Q1 and down 2% in the United States while our I.C.
Foley business was down 4% globally and down 5% in the U.S.
which is on the low end of our recent experience here.
So we continue to see pressure in this daily use product line driven by general market conditions.
Our Continence business was down 15% in Q1 consistent with recent experience with almost half of that decline driven by the discontinuation of our bulking agent Contigen in Q2 of last year.
So we'll have that headwind for one more quarter.
Within Continence in the first quarter we launched our next-generation fecal management system called DIGNISHIELD.
DIGNISHIELD builds upon the patent pending cup design of DIGNICARE and incorporates a new odor barrier technology with new collection and containment systems to reduce the risk of cross contamination or leakage.
And while it's still early in the launch we expect this improved technology to gain market share as the year progresses.
Sales in urological specialties were up 1% in the first quarter as the largest product line in the category our brachytherapy business was up 2%.
Stand-alone sales of our STATLOCK catheter stabilization line decreased 1% in Q1.
We think this market has matured to a point where the growth will be more modest than it's been over the 6 years since we acquired the business.
It is for that reason that you saw us combine these sales resources with our Access Systems team to optimize the opportunity with the call point at the nursing area.
Let's now go to Oncology.
Total sales in this category were $198.9 million an increase of 7% over Q1 last year on both the constant currency and as-reported basis.
Geographically net sales in the United States were up 4%.
Outside the United States sales were up 14%.
Our port business was up 4% versus Q1 last year while our PICC revenue was up 8%.
Both of these product lines are benefiting from the strong adoption in emerging markets.
Here in the United States in Q1 we reached the one-year anniversary of the launch of our Tip Confirmation System as an alternative to X-ray.
We have converted over 200 accounts to this technology with over 60% of those accounts already having eliminated x-rays from their protocols which represents the elimination of about 140 000 x-rays annually.
In addition to those converted already we have over 150 accounts currently evaluating that technology and our conversion rate to date is at 93%.
We're very happy with the first year results in this product and we still have plenty of opportunity in front of us.
We received FDA clearance for the new Sherlock 3CG integration system just a couple of weeks ago.
The new platform combines our ultrasound technology with our Sherlock tracking and our ECG-based Tip Confirmation claims as an alternative to X-ray.
We've also recently received CE mark approval for this integrated product and are planning a controlled rollout and launch in Europe beginning late this quarter or early Q3.
Our vascular access ultrasound product line was up 13% this quarter.
While over 80% of our sales in this category are in the United States our international business continues to expand growing over 80% in the first quarter.
Let's conclude our revenue discussion with our Surgical Specialties business.
Total net sales in this category were $114.7 million essentially flat on a constant currency and as-reported basis.
United States sales were down 2% and international sales were up 7% for the quarter.
Our soft tissue repair business grew 1% this quarter slightly lower than recent quarters and the mix of the growth has shifted.
A year ago our synthetic hernia products were declining and we are seeing strong growth in our Biologics business.
This quarter our recent product launches in synthetic hernia hit the mark providing 23% growth in our synthetic ventral products and 12% growth in synthetic hernia overall.
However the sales trajectory of our natural tissue products has leveled off over the last few quarters and is showing an 8% decline this quarter against the high-water mark of the first quarter 2011.
The good news for us is that with our new synthetic products for both open and laparoscopic procedures including our resorbable non-adhesive barrier we are well positioned to the extent there is any procedural shift toward synthetics in the future.
As expected our Hernia Fixation business declined 27% this quarter as the market adjusted to 3 players instead of 2.
So we expect continued headwind in the comps until the back half of this year.
Closing out the surgical category in Q1 our Performance Irrigation business declined 12% and our Hemostasis business was up 23% over a very low quarter a year ago.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to Todd Schermerhorn.
Thanks John.
To start with the only items that affected comparability of our results between periods in Q1 were acquisition-related items of $1 million associated primarily with the deals we closed in Q4.
The P&amp;L impact is detailed in the notes of the financial statements and the reconciliation accompanying our Q1 earnings press release.
Let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $450.6 million 61.7% of sales down 40 basis points on an adjusted basis from the prior-year quarter.
New amortization of intangibles relating to transactions closed in the last 12 months cost us about 70 basis points year-over-year this quarter.
Price was more favorable than we expected at 150 basis points on the revenue line and 60 basis points in GP.
It was Q2 of last year when we saw the first step up in pricing headwinds.
So we're still assuming the full impact on 2012 will be above 100 basis points on the revenue line but as you can imagine this is an area we're watching closely.
From a manufacturing standpoint our cost improvement programs and manufacturing efficiencies continue to produce nicely and even with the step up in price erosion we actually started 2012 a little bit better than we had expected.
So right now I don't see anything that would change our full year gross profit guidance.
SG&amp;A expenses were $202.3 million for the quarter or 27.7% of sales the same as a year ago despite adding about 80 basis points of expense from the deals closed in Q4 and our continued investments in emerging markets.
And this net result for the quarter reflects also our prior restructuring activities and as you know we typically keep the spending range fairly tight in Q1.
R&amp;D expenses totaled $48.2 million for the first quarter or 6.6% of sales.
On an adjusted basis R&amp;D was $47.8 million or 6.5% of sales up 10 basis points as a percent of sales from the prior year.
As with SG&amp;A we conservatively plan our R&amp;D early in each year.
We continue to expect R&amp;D as a percent of sales to increase throughout the year as we approach the 7% of sales we guided to in December.
Interest expense was $9.5 million for the first quarter just up slightly from a year ago due to higher debt levels related to the Q4 deals.
Other income expense was $800 000 of income for the first quarter as reported and $1.4 million of income on an adjusted basis driven mostly by foreign exchange.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 27.5% right in line with our full year guidance.
Diluted shares for the period were 85.1 million as we purchased 1.2 million shares in the first quarter.
So the net result is adjusted EPS $0.04 above the top range of our guidance for the quarter on slightly better margins and light spending levels.
As you can probably predict we're going to caution you about making too much of the over-performance as I provide guidance for Q2 in a minute.
Balance sheet as of March 31 2012 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of $804.4 million versus $743.5 million at December 31.
For the quarter accounts receivable days were up 3.8 days mainly due to a nontrade item and inventory days were up 0.2 days.
Capital expenditures totaled $19.6 million for the quarter.
On the liability side total debt was $1.239 billion at March 31 compared to $1.213 billion at December 31.
Debt to total capital at the end of the first quarter is about 40% and total shareholder investment was $1.872 billion at March 31.
Moving on to financial guidance for Q2.
We are again expecting constant currency sales growth between 4% and 7%.
From an EPS standpoint excluding items affecting comparability if any we see the second quarter in a range of $1.61 to $1.65.
As I said we're off to a good start from an EPS standpoint for the reasons I noted.
But again we do expect to elevate our investment levels going forward so we remain committed to the full year earnings guidance we provided you in December.
I'll now turn you over to John DeFord.
With almost 50 projects discussed in December I'll just jump in and hit the highlights today and we'll bring in details of the other products as the year progresses.
Anything not covered today remains on the timeline we presented in December.
I'll start with our new atrial fibrillation ablation technology named ENCOMPASS.
We began enrollment in our multicenter feasibility study in Q1 and anticipate enrolling between 40 and 60 patients.
Our enrollment's been brisk and we believe we'll complete patient recruitment and treatment in Q2.
Our plan is to use those data to support CE mark approval and European launch around the end of the year.
We also plan to submit the results to FDA in Q4 to support our pivotal IDE.
Moving to stent grafts enrollment continues in our roughly 300-patient clinical study of the FLUENCY PLUS family for the AV access in-stent restenosis indication.
As we discussed late last year FDA requested some additional analysis that increased our required enrollment about 35%.
This has extended the time needed for patient enrollment and we now expect recruitment and treatment activities will continue throughout this year.
At this point we filed the first module of our PMA submission and anticipate filing the final PMA module in the second half of 2013 with an anticipated launch around the end of next year or early in 2014.
Our next-generation stent graft LifeStream targeted for the treatment of SFA disease received conditional IDE approval just a couple of weeks ago and we're in the midst of site selection contracts IRB submissions and training.
We anticipate enrolling our first of roughly 200 patients in this study in Q3.
We're estimating about 12 months for patient enrollment and we'll need one-year follow up prior to PMA submission.
So U.S.
launch is certainly a couple of years out.
European launch is expected later this summer.
In PTA our LEVANT 2 pivotal clinical study of the Lutonix drug-coated balloon for the treatment of SFA and popliteal disease continues with very energetic enrollment.
We've enrolled over 370 patients in this 476-patient study and anticipate completing patient recruitment around midyear.
The study includes patients suffering from claudication or rest pain with significant stenosis in previously unstented vessels.
We'll follow these patients for 5 years but anticipate PMA submission with one-year follow-up.
We also have a 650-patient LEVANT 2 registry study under review at FDA.
This registry will closely mimic the follow-up of the randomized study and is anticipated to start enrolling this summer.
The Lutonix drug-coated balloon is CE marked and we're gearing up for a launch in Europe in the second half this year.
We're also laying the groundwork for a large European registry study that will also commence later this year.
And as we alluded to in December we're working towards the submission of an IDE to study the Lutonix drug-coated balloon in below-the-knee arterial disease.
Also in PTA we received 510(k) clearance and began the launch of our new CONQUEST HP 40 a line of very high pressure PTA catheters.
CONQUEST HP 40 is the only PTA product family to have balloons with rated burst pressures as high as 40 atmospheres.
Additionally our new line of ATLAS large diameter PTA catheters is nearing development completion and we remain on track for launch in mid-summer.
We're also on schedule to launch a new CROSSER product for central lumen access across chronic total occlusions and new 300-millimeter length ULTRAVERSE balloons both planned for launch in early Q3.
All in all it's a pretty full pipeline in our PTA business.
Moving to filters.
In Q3 of last year we began enrolling in our DENALI vena cava filter clinical study.
DENALI is our next-generation filter designed with a unibody electro-polished construction enhanced anchoring and penetration-limiting limbs.
We anticipate enrolling about 200 patients in this study and at our current recruitment rate we believe we'll complete enrollment around the end of the year.
We'll need follow-up for at least 6 months prior to submission so the U.S.
launch is most likely late in 2013 or early in 2014.
In biopsy we're progressing on schedule with the development of our new SENOMARK Ultra breast biopsy marker.
This new marker is designed for long-term stability and visibility and is anticipated for launch in Q4.
Now turning to urology.
We're making good progress towards the expected year-end launch of the COMFORT GLIDE hydrophilic intermittent catheter.
COMFORT GLIDE will be manufactured with our new synthetic latex providing superior material properties for patient comfort without the proteins that can cause natural rubber allergies.
Changing gears in our Temperature Management business we're right on track with our development of a new ARCTICGEL pad system for application at the first point of contact with a patient.
We anticipate launch around the end of the year.
This new proprietary product we're naming ARCTIC BLAST allows for the initiation of supportive cooling for 60 to 90 minutes without the need to be tethered to the ARCTIC SUN system.
Once that patient's been transported to the hospital the ARCTIC BLAST pads will connect to the ARCTIC SUN system and continue cooling and temperature control without the need to exchange pads Moving to oncology.
As we discussed in December we submitted our 510(k) for the antimicrobial COVERT PowerPICC late last year and we're in discussions with FDA on a reasonable path forward.
Frankly we've not had much success here in the last few quarters so I'm not going to suggest a launch date yet.
However in the next couple of weeks we plan to launch our new PowerPICC FT family of peripherally inserted central catheters.
The FT has a unique small diameter shaft and flared tip that's designed to minimize the amount of catheter in the vein while not compromising the flow rate or power injection capabilities.
In December I briefly mentioned our development of a new family of intermediate dwell catheters for use in patients that need extended venous access that don't require a PICC or port.
To meet that need we're nearing completion of our new POWERGLIDE IDC.
POWERGLIDE integrates a proprietary introduction system to simplify placement and will be offered in common peripheral IV needle gauge sizes.
We've submitted our 510(k) and anticipate launching about midyear.
Turning to ports.
In just a few days we anticipate the launch of a new intermediate-sized low artifact PowerPort family.
The ports will for the first time in the market offer significantly reduced MR and CT imaging artifact thereby reducing the effective port placement on the interpretation of diagnostic scans.
As we move through the remainder of the year we anticipate filling out this line with other sizes and configurations in both single and dual chamber PowerPort designs.
In imaging we've completed development and submitted our 510(k) for the new SITE-RITE PREVUE highly portable ultrasound system.
PREVUE is designed to ease the placement of difficult PIVs and will be offered with proprietary disposable needle guides and an integrated ultrasound gel system.
We're planning for launch of this product.
We're also making good progress on our Site-Rite 7 ultrasound platform scheduled for launch in Q3 in Europe and late in Q4 in the U.S.
And finally our FAZER [ph] freehand stereotactic system is on schedule and we anticipate a first launch in the first half of next year.
And moving to surgery we recently launched our new fully resorbable PHASIX mesh material in a flat sheet configuration for inguinal hernia repair.
PHASIX is designed to provide the look feel and function of our standard polypropylene products with equivalent strength during healing then resorbed leaving the patient with no foreign material in the body after about a year.
We're also nearing completion of the development of a PERFIX plug design using the PHASIX material and we anticipate filing for regulatory clearance in late Q2 and launch around the end of the year.
In ventral hernia repair we expect to launch several new sizes of the VENTRALIGHT ST product later this summer while we continue to work toward the launch of additional sizes of our EcHO PS laparoscopic mesh expansion and positioning system in the second half of the year.
And in our biologically dry materials in Q1 we launched additional XENMATRIX xenograft configurations.
Wrapping up our surgical products discussion we're making steady progress on our first antibiotic-coated ventral hernia repair product.
We filed our first in a series of 510(k)s late last year and have recently received some additional questions from FDA.
We anticipate responding in early Q3.
I think we have a good path forward but as with all combination devices I'm a bit hesitant to put a stake in the ground concerning a launch date today.
Now we certainly covered a lot of ground quickly here and I thank you for your attention.
Let me now turn you back to Tim Ring Thanks John.
That does conclude the formal part of the presentation.
I'll now hand the call back to the moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A session.
I would ask you though to accommodate the number of investors on the call today we would request that you limit yourself to one question only.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from the line of Jonathan Palmer with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Quickly could you just go through either geographically or from a product perspective what was driving the strength in Other International? This is John Weiland.
As we have seen over the last 3 years our expansions it's more market-related expansions as opposed to a product line.
The investments that we've made in emerging markets in particular the strength that we've had in China continues to drive the overall emerging market growth.
I'd say Latin America was behind that as well in terms of the incremental growth that we saw.
Research Division</strong> John what kind of growth rates are you seeing out of China today and what do you think is sustainable over the near term? We're seeing in the mid-40s growth rate and our plans tell us that we'll be able to continue that through obviously at least this year.
As we get near the back end and we make our decisions on infrastructure additions I think that will give us a better indicator for next year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one quick one for Todd.
On the 2Q guidance you cautioned about assuming any aggressive savings on the SG&amp;A line.
What's going to be the incremental there that drives SG&amp;A higher? Well it's incremental investment.
Yes I mean we're real careful about spending in the first -- typically in the first quarter just to make sure that we have kind of the financial formula under our control.
And so it's nothing more than that.
Nothing specific per se.
We're still funding the geographic investments John talked about.
And obviously the deals drive a big part of that increase.
But the rest of it's just kind of the day-to-day investing and spending to sustain the business that we do.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Matson with Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question on your hernia repair business specifically the comments.
I understand you've launched a lot of new synthetic products and that's helping that part of your business.
But your biologic business really slowed down and we've seen that at some of your competitors as well.
So is this a market issue or is it something specific to your product line? And were there some changes where the FDA's gotten stricter about how you market those products? What we saw and it took us a while to pick up on this trend quite frankly and we finally saw it confirmed in the Q4 IMS data that was published recently that there is a flattening in the whole biologics market.
And I think that most people have seen that that are in that business.
We attribute that to the differential in pricing between synthetics versus biologics and increased sensitivity on certain hospitals about ensuring that they use biologics only in cases where it's absolutely necessary.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with regard to the 3CG product in your oncology business so how will that sort of be rolled out relative to the existing system that you're selling right now for tip confirmation? Is that something where you think that a lot of those customers would upgrade to 3CG? Or are you going to continue to sell both those products side-by-side? This is John DeFord Michael.
The plan will be over time to just sell the 3CG.
That said we have a stand-alone Sherlock and ECG-based confirmation system for people who have their own ultrasound.
So that will still be in the marketplace as well but 3CG ultimately will replace what we've had in the market with a combination of Sherlock Sapiens and our ultrasound.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Tim let me ask you a first question and Todd jump in here as well is the discussion at this point around Gore is that you guys will look to invest roughly half of the earnings accretion from that should that come to bear back into the business.
Can you just talk a little bit about Tim about how you do that? We've all seen in the last couple of years where you I would say struggled to ramp your R&amp;D spending the way you thought you might have a couple of years ago.
It still seems like the company isn't at that point where it could meaningfully ramp spending over the next couple of years.
I'm not sure if the company could find the projects necessarily to invest in.
And we're not talking small dollars here we're talking large dollars.
So how do you want us to think about this idea of reinvesting after the accretion back into the business? Give us some sense at this point to the degree which you can into where you would spend it and how you would spend it internal versus external.
Maybe at this point the best thing for me to explain is the process.
Clearly this isn't something that snuck up on us last week.
So we've had plenty of time to think about this.
We put together a fairly well-defined deliberate process in place where all of our business units whether it be geographic product oriented what have you have put together a priority list of their own based on their request with associated ROI and other typical things we would run on in investment programs.
We're in the process.
We've accumulated those.
We have them here at corporate now.
We're going through those assessing and prioritizing them according to the way we think we would want to make those investments.
And then we're going to get together very shortly actually the senior management team and make the decision as to which ones and what priority we would put those in order.
I think it's a well-managed process.
Certainly the early indication is there are absolutely plenty of ideas out there for us to invest in.
And when we do make that decision and in fact when the final decision in the case is made we're prepared to let you know exactly how we plan investing that line.
The only thing I'd add to that is in addition to the R&amp;D and product development sides of it there is also the opportunity to escalate our strategic plan as it relates to geographical expansions and that will be part of our evaluation as well.
Research Division</strong> Tim so I want to make sure I have a sense.
So in accelerating the strategic plan geographic as well as R&amp;D so what does the Gore windfall changed about your appetite for adding a new platform? Is that something that is under consideration versus more bolt-on deals that you've done in the past? Well I think we talked in the past about the widespread[ph]process we began a couple of years ago.
Having the money doesn't change the strategic aspect of that at all.
So that's part of our ongoing business development activity.
We continue to assess other areas.
It's not a new things for us.
The Gore money makes it easier to afford some of those things but it doesn't change the strategy at all.
Research Division</strong> Let me ask a couple short-term questions.
So 3CG is that launching now? It wasn't clear what the timing was on that.
Launching now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's ready to go.
And then could you just give us a little bit more maybe Todd on the Japan benefit what you thought that was in the quarter and whether we'll see any of that flow into the second quarter as well? Well I don't think -- in terms of the competitor's product problem you're talking about? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Japan grew 19%.
I think Japan is typically kind of just about a 10% growth for us out the door.
So maybe a little stronger than that this period so it's a few basis points there.
As to how long it lasts I don't think we know.
We'll do the best we can to attempt to access sustainable opportunities.
Our next question comes from the line of Rick Wise with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> Tim you talked about not much change in U.S.
volumes up 2%.
But you do -- in the first quarter you had your toughest comp of the year.
I'm just curious on a couple of fronts.
Did the U.S.
come in where you thought -- I mean U.S.
came in a little weaker than we thought OUS a little better.
But is it on budget for you? And does it improve from here I assume as comps ease through the year? I'd say it's about maybe a little lighter than what we had anticipated but we didn't anticipate a big change.
I think generally when we gave the guidance for the year our assumption was no change in the environment to the positive.
So -- and I think we've seen that happen as we came out of the blocks here.
Research Division</strong> All right.
But again it's reasonable to think it gets better from here with new products and easier comps? Well you'd almost have to go product line by product line to do that.
I'd just say in general we're pleased with the overall start of the year across the board.
Research Division</strong> Maybe Todd I'll turn to you.
Guidance unchanged despite the $0.05 beat.
I mean I understand your caution on expenses rising but we've sort of already modeled that.
Where do you think we need to be sensitive to? Is R&amp;D or are R&amp;D and SG&amp;A going to be higher for the year? And maybe just give us if you would the share count for the second quarter and maybe for the year that we should be using now.
I mean I think there's plenty of room Rick between what we spent and our guidance.
We had anticipated SG&amp;A to be in -- and our guidance had been 50 basis points higher than prior year.
We were right on prior year this period.
And as far as R&amp;D we're saying that we can get R&amp;D approaching to 7%.
We did 6.5%.
So there's plenty of room to invest within the guidance we gave you and I think this has always been a model where we're always balancing deliverables to shareholders against the investments we want to make in the business.
And I think if you look at the last 10 years we've been pretty good at bringing this pretty big airline down right in the middle of the landing strip every year.
So we just want to amplify the fact that we're going to continue to do that and we don't want people to get ahead of us relative to some sense that we've got $0.05 extra every quarter.
This is a balance between delivering what we've told you we're going to do and investing in the business and I think we're going to continue to maintain that balances exactly as we have.
As it relates to shares I don't know Rick.
It depends on what comes along.
The business development process is active.
We're typically looking at excess cash and deploying excess cash to buy our shares.
So I think from an attitude standpoint none of that has changed.
It will just depend upon cash flow and opportunities.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Dodds with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just one more question Todd on the stent benefit.
Why was it mostly in Japan? Is this a Japanese competitor or are they just big in Japan or is that where they have the issue? They have a large share position in Japan Matt and I think the Japanese customers were -- the choices that they have are not as significant as they have in the U.S.
market at this point in time.
So we were very well positioned to be able to take advantage of it.
Research Division</strong> Just one more quick one on the U.S.
sales front.
Basic Drainage you said that was down in the U.S.
and my impression is Biologics and Fixation were also down in the U.S.
Were those the 3 businesses that really showed the weakness? Or was there something else there that may have influenced the number in terms of a step-down? I think that if you look at our quarter-to-quarter rates vascular was down just a little bit.
Surgery was probably the area that we were surprised the most primarily because of the flattening in biologics.
And I think that once we saw that Q4 IMS data and we confirmed what was happening in the entire market it allowed us to have a clearer picture of where we were.
That's exactly right.
Matt I don't see much of a change in the trend line in Drainage.
It's a point different maybe but no the real change is going on in Surgery.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Wittes with Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple product questions.
First off you mentioned 3CGs is available at this point.
My question is it still seems like you're going to do a very controlled launch.
I think you said 50 to 100 accounts.
I might have misheard that but what's the rationale behind that? And basically how long does it take to get customers to get complete buying? You said you had a 93% conversion rate for some of the other technologies.
We're going to roll this thing out.
It's part of our larger rollout of Sapiens that we originated a year ago.
And recall the numbers that I gave you we've converted 200 accounts in its first year.
We have 150 accounts that are in evaluation.
So that's a total of 350 accounts and we're working hard on these conversions.
So 3CG will be a part of that conversion as we move forward and certainly makes it more convenient for customers having one hardware system to be able to accomplish all of the elimination of X-ray needs that they have.
Jason I think another piece of that is that we have CE mark approval for that product now so we'll also be rolling out in Europe and where we've not had the product available yet.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Also are you able to break out PICC growth excluding 3CGs and Sapiens? We're able to but we're not going to do that for competitive reasons.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can I also ask you had a few questions about LifeStent and I think you mentioned Japan was about 3 -- it sounds like 3% or so to the growth.
But it was still pretty healthy and last couple of quarters you've seen a nice rebound in LifeStent and I'm assuming you think that's -- what the levels we see now x Japan are pretty sustainable going forward given all the changes we've had in competition.
Or how are you feeling about that business? Well I think there certainly is -- there's probably another shoe or 2 to drop in the competitive area within that area right now.
However having said that we love our positioning of LifeStent in that market.
We love the longer lengths that we have in our new delivery system.
The only product in the market with the long-term data associated with LifeStent we love what that product has to offer across the board.
I mean that said Jason there are 7 other companies with SFA stents either -- ev3 recently got their indication.
Cook's coming on the market at some point and then there's at least 5 others that I could name off the top of my head that are in the hunt.
So this is going to be a competitive space.
But as John said we think there's a real interesting value proposition with LifeStent and we think there's real differentiation as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last clarification and I'll jump off.
I think you said pricing worldwide was down I think 150 basis points.
And I guess a could you give us an indication of how much of that was related to the U.S.? And also you also mentioned some optimism.
Could you give us a little color in terms of what gives you optimism that it's probably I think you said close to 100 basis points for the year? Well the one thing we don't want to get into is pricing by product line because we don't think that serves us well competitively but I would tell you that the change is entirely U.S.
driven.
And as it relates to the optimism all that we're saying is if you go back we were running at about 20 to 30 basis points of price up until the second quarter of last year where we went up to 80 basis points of price.
So this is in effect each time we measure it above comps to some extent.
And so we had a 50 basis point move.
We really had our first move back into the second quarter last year.
So we're hoping that with that difficult comp I guess you'd call it it will ease the erosion a little bit.
Our next question comes from the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I want to come back to a comment that was made in the earlier remarks about EM returns coming in a little stronger and earlier than you expected.
I wonder Tim what's the strategy there? I'm assuming those returns are coming in at a corporate contribution margin.
But is the corporate strategy now with EM to reinvest those returns more aggressively or some of those returns beginning to drop down to the bottom line and that was evidenced in the quarter? We're investing heavily in the EM markets.
We're not looking at that to be a driver of income appreciation because we're in the investment mode in those markets and we would expect that we'll continue to be in the investment mode in those markets for some time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So this quarter's upside really has -- the revenue -- the top line growth rate accretion was probably tied to some EM but the bottom line was not? That's the right way to look at it.
Research Division</strong> And then just thinking about urology for a second and try to maybe tease out Medivance.
It looked like depending on what the Medivance result was in the quarter that urology may have stepped down incrementally.
We had sort of the product around $10 million to $12 million for the first quarter.
Is that sort of in the ballpark? And can you help us with what is a reasonable expectation for contribution for the year? Yes that sure is in the ballpark.
And as it stands right now we're expecting to grow that number each quarter going forward.
So I'm not going to put a dollar figure on it for the full year but we are looking for improvement as we go out each quarter.
Research Division</strong> Do you just mean [ph] the underlying urology trends are more or less stable? Well we're down a couple of percent outside of temperature management this period.
If you think about it last year we guided minus 1% to plus 3% and we ended up around 0.
So I think there may be a percent difference in there somewhere maybe a 2% difference in those women's health fundamentally and continence.
But a 1% move isn't necessarily unstable.
David we grew at 3% in urology in Q4.
We grew at 3% in Q1 both had Medivance in although we didn't have as much Medivance in as we had in Q1.
So I think Todd hit the nail right on the head.
Our next question comes from the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Topher Orr in for David.
First I'd like to get back to the SG&amp;A spending question.
You guys touched upon previously both the pick up next quarter as well as for the full year.
I was wondering if you could give a little more detail how much of this is related to integration of M&amp;A and how much of it is related to incremental spending for market build out say for Lutonix? Well we said the deals were 80 basis points Topher.
80 -- if you look at the deal spending -- new deal spending as a percent of this quarter's sales is 80 basis points all in.
As it goes -- as we roll forward I don't know that that's going to change dramatically.
As I said it was just a very tight quarter for us from a spending standpoint that is typical of us to get our earnings sort of forecast under control early on so we can kind of control our own destiny effectively and that's really all it is.
This is something we've done for I don't know 8 years.
So no new news here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up on Lutonix specifically could you just remind us when we should expect the next set of data for the European? Well so LEVANT 1 has finished 2-year follow-up and we have the data that's being analyzed right now.
So it's not available yet.
LEVANT 2 which is our pivotal study we're in enrollment right now.
And so we expect to enroll into the middle of the year.
And so we're not going to have much in the way of follow-up for at least 6 months until we have a 6-month follow-up time point.
And then obviously the one year time point is the key for us getting things together for our PMA filing.
So nothing really new.
Now the one-year LEVANT 1 data was presented at length this year and it was also presented at ISET and really continue to have very good results with a significant difference between PTA alone and the treatment arm itself.
Now there's a little bit of noise in that when you look at it because remember LEVANT 1 had some of the issues around balloon twisting and those kind of things that we as Bard have fixed.
But if you're looking specifically for the one-year data for LEVANT 1 we had late loss of 0.46 millimeters versus 1.09 millimeters.
So very significant difference between our treatment arm and PTA arm and also had pretty significant difference in terms of TLR of 21.6% of one year versus 62.5%.
Research Division</strong> And then just one last question are you guys making any changes at this time to your segment sales guidance for the full year? We usually don't go back Topher and update that.
We'll stick to the full guidance which is 4% to 7%.
Obviously not a great start in surgery in particular.
But we're not going to get into traits in that through every period.
I really don't think it's relevant.
At the end of the day total sales that matter to everybody and we'll make sure we'll show good transparency I guess as to how we're going to get there.
Our next question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering sorry if this was asked but have you guys quantified or did you think there was an impact from the extra selling day in the quarter or was there one just because of leap year? Yes there was an extra selling day I think although you have to go through weekends and end of the period and so on.
We tend not to get all caught up in that.
What would it be 1 on 63 or something if it was really there so no.
I've seen other people with very discrete calculations.
Just not sure -- I'm not sure how they do that.
But hospitals stay open right through the weekend so always a little difficult for us to calculate.
Research Division</strong> So I guess is it the best way to look at it as organic growth I guess kind of around 3% if I take out acquisitions and then just maybe a little bit below that just given the fact that there probably was some benefit like 1 to 2 or something like that? Well I mean it wouldn't be 1 to 2 1 on 60.
I guess that's not a bad analysis Kristen.
I mean there's a lot of other things on the other side dealer inventories and we don't get involved in calling all that stuff out we don't follow it out when the days go the other way.
So I mean...
At one point we did call out dealer inventories for a change and we did nothing but reconcile it for about 2 years.
So we decided it wasn't such a good idea.
Research Division</strong> I do remember that and that was not pleasant on my end either.
And also any update sorry Todd but on your replacement not to rush out the door? Any timing? And I forget exactly Todd when you were set to sail off into the sunset? Yes I'll take that.
It's Tim.
The announcement that we made with Todd was he was with us through the end of August.
We have had a fairly extensive search.
Just to give you an idea on the process the funnel started with over 140 candidates.
I've personally seen more than 12.
And I think we're literally just a few weeks away from probably formalizing things and in the position to make an announcement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Would you be willing to say whether it's likely someone from internal or...
No I think I could say I'd go back to the -- refer you back to the process it was a pretty extensive process.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew O'Brien with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to get a little bit more on the pricing side here in the U.S.
Can you talk about whether or not that was more competitive driven or was that more pushbacks specifically from the hospital? Boy I don't know if you could ever define that Matt.
I mean you think about there are so many dynamics that happen on a day-to-day basis.
You add to that the 40 contracts -- the 41 contracts or 41 that we were in last year.
You talk about people that have had local agreements.
I mean I don't think there's any way mathematically to get to that number for you.
Research Division</strong> What about anecdotally from your sales force in terms of what they're telling you? No I don't think there's a general trend out there.
I think it's a combination of all of those things quite frankly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then follow-up question for you.
Vascular certain segments of that business do quite well every quarter other areas weigh it down.
Absent what we saw in Japan in the quarter it looked like you were a little bit light of the 6% to 9% number that you had given for the year in terms of constant currency growth out of that business.
Now again just a little bit light.
But what is it that is kind of going on in the market from a competitive prospective pricing perspective? Is this where you're seeing some of the bigger pricing pressure? And how should we think about these new product introductions getting you back to the midpoint if not the higher end of that range specifically just some of these with LifeStent and the longer length products you're coming out with? Well I mean there's about...
Research Division</strong> Only 12 questions in there.
That's a pretty tough set of questions I would say Matt.
I would say this we have a number of significant new product launches within the BPB space.
We have a significant uptick that we can continue to have on products that have been launched over the last year that are still taking share.
I mean I wouldn't -- we have we think a potential change in the growth trajectory of our filter business as Meridian continues to take hold.
I think all those things give us comfort level in the strength of our business overall in vascular.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And volumes are still pretty healthy there? Is that true? I don't know if I understand your question.
Research Division</strong> Just the general volume growth within the vascular business be it lower extremities or wherever it maybe.
Are those still fairly healthy? We have not seen any major change in that business.
One other point I'd add while you go off is none of our U.S.
businesses are immune to price.
They're all going in the same direction.
So as you guys try and tease out the various businesses where price may have moved greater or lesser this period a we're just not going to go there because we're not interested in signaling this to our competitors.
But b I can tell you that nobody's exempt.
It's hitting across the board.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> It's Lennox Ketner in for Bob.
Just quickly on the deal dilution in the quarter.
I know you said it was 80 basis points.
So by my math it's about $0.05 or so but I think you had said at the Analyst Day that you expected Lutonix to be about $0.25 dilutive for the full year.
Is that still your expectation for the full year? Yes I think we have apples and oranges in there Lennox.
So that's the raw spending in SG&amp;A obviously the sales that go with that.
The ClearStream and the Medivance deal we don't expect to be dilutive or very dilutive really materially dilutive for the full year.
It really all is in Lutonix.
And I would say within a few hundred thousand dollars we spent what we expected to in Lutonix for the period.
Research Division</strong> So it's fair to assume Lutonix was maybe $0.06 to $0.07 dilutive for the quarter? In that range.
I think we said $0.25 for the year and we're pretty close to what we expected for this period yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last one just a clarification on the Gore timing.
I know you said that you expect to have a final resolution by year end.
But is that something where the ruling on Gore's petition could come any day? Or is there some reason you expect it to be closer to the year end? And then also once the court does make that ruling are there any other avenues for Gore to pursue? Or once that's ruled on is that it? No they have the opportunity to appeal to the Supreme Court and that would be a process.
So we're not exactly sure whether they will or they won't and nor are we all that clear on how long that will take.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But is the ruling at the Appeals Court level that could come any day? Theoretically it could come any day yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Sollof with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Many of my questions have already been answered but just a couple of quick follow-ups from some of the product lines.
I mean I guess beginning with urology.
I appreciate all the commentary on Medivance.
But I mean so the legacy business has been down.
It looks like what's really been weighing that down has been like continence you talked about mid double-digit declines there.
Can you talk about some of your expectations for new products such as DIGNISHIELD? Can that really change the trajectory of that business? I think the biggest thing that will change the trajectory of the business one DIGNISHIELD we think will make a positive contribution through the second half of the year.
We also lose a difficult comp which is the annualization of the discontinuation of Contigen which is about half of that decrease in revenue growth in continence that we mentioned and that will happen at the end of the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Quick one on soft tissue.
It seems like you guys are really well positioned from a product perspective given really the shift back that we've seen to synthetic.
Is there something in the pipeline to talk to to rejuvenate the biologics growth? Or are you just taking note of the changes we've really seen in that market and really focusing on the synthetic side in the soft tissue market? We do have a couple of products under development but we haven't really signaled what that technology is exactly made of.
But it's in the biologics franchise if you will.
So we think we've got some things there sort of late this year really more likely next year time period.
And we're also launching in the biologics space.
As I talked about in the first quarter we launched some line extensions if you will.
But the real mover is going to be new product and technology that's coming later on.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just really one final one and back on emerging markets.
Your guides have said it's about 5% of your global revenue currently.
You've talked about the focus all the investments.
Do you have any target looking out say 3 or 5 years what percent of total revenue like where can that go or nothing specific there? There's people that do that.
We don't do that internally.
We say we look at our investment profile we look at the market opportunities and we try to match up our investment profile to where we have the biggest opportunities.
Do we have some focus internally on what that could be? Yes but we don't roll that out publicly.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Jennings with Cowen &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to focus on Moxy and the Lutonix acquisition.
Can you just talk about your perception of the European market for drug-coated balloons? And what types of data do you think needs to accelerate that market growth for one? And then two if you could just remind us I believe you guys do have CE mark approval and what your launch plans are for the international markets with that product.
Sure.
So you're right.
We do have CE mark for the product.
We think that one of the key drivers for the European market and frankly any of the markets with drug-coated balloons are randomized studies and good data.
There are certainly a lot of studies that have been conducted with competitive devices.
None of them randomized.
There are some gearing up of course.
And so -- or none of them of any size that were randomized.
And so we think that's the key driver.
So our randomized study we think is important.
We talked about a 650-patient registry that we're starting this summer and then also a European registry that we're starting after launch.
We think all of that is going to be really key to driving growth in this space.
Again in Europe there's a lot of competitive product on the market a lot of different drug-coated balloon technologies.
And so we think we've got a really unique platform here that's got some real benefits and it's going to take a little bit time for us to show that.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just on the launch plans for internationally or in Europe? So we said second half of the year we're going to launch that in Europe.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then last just a follow-up.
A number of your competitors have talked about the pelvic floor repair market with some of the FDA issues really suffering in Q1 here.
Has that been part of the issue with the continence business? And I know it's a small portion of your business but is that causing some of this downturn? Can you comment...
It is a piece of that for sure although it's not a huge business for us anymore.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you just talk about what you're seeing in that market although it is a small piece of your business? Well we're seeing the entire market decrease pretty substantially and I think every player in it is seeing the same thing in particular in the United States.
But the rest of the world is not immune to it either.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question goes to the line of Anthony Petrone with Jefferies Group.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple on Gore and one on vascular.
With Gore can you comment on the mix of the other half of the Gore proceeds potentially that you may be receiving there as it relates to buybacks and dividends? And also the plan for any potential follow-on royalties is the mix the same as you mentioned for the upfront cash? And then the one on vascular would be did the 6% to 9% growth you put out at the Analyst Day contemplate the entrance of competing products? Again you mentioned EverFlex came out from ev3 and potentially one a competing stent from Cook.
As it relates to Gore we talk about earnings power.
Maybe I could just articulate that a little clearer because we haven't laid out when we do each one of these things necessarily.
So we don't have the Q1 numbers yet but we'd estimate their potential liability to us at the end of Q1 at about $885 million.
In addition to that there's a royalty rate if you look at the fourth quarter what we've disclosed -- the third and the fourth quarter that's at about $35 million in Q4.
So what we're saying is if you tax effect the cash payment and buy shares with that bolus of cash and then add the EPS impact of that royalty flow you get something around $1.50 a share annually and that's what we mean by the earnings power.
How that all plays out and exactly what we do which we do and in what order will depend upon the investment pool and how that will play out.
So until we have that full plan developed it's premature for us to tell you in what order the buyback will occur versus the royalty flow.
Do you understand that? Inc.
Research Division</strong> No I follow that.
But I guess by definition then the dividend policy stays the same? Yes it would be buybacks yes assuming we're successful here at all.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Assuming yes of course.
And then the follow-up would just be on the vascular question.
Did the 6% to 9% growth contemplate EverFlex from ev3 potentially Cook and other competing stents out there? Yes we're well aware of the competitive potential launches for the year and had built that into our plans.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Goldman with CL King.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions on aggregate growth.
First we talked about the potential bolus from Gore.
I guess you could add to that the potential bolus were it to happen if the medical device excise tax were stricken down.
But my question is for the internal projects much of what I imagine you'd expect to do involves hiring people and that takes time.
And I'm wondering if you would spend in advance of the final decisions either with Gore or with the medical device excise tax or we do not spend which is to say not hire these incremental folks until there was a definitive conclusion on both.
And the second question on the aggregate sales is for Tim that certainly it was quite good quarter relative to expectations.
But the aggregate organic sales growth was as it is 3%.
And I'm wondering Tim if you see at all a runway to get Bard up to let's say higher single-digit sales growth.
And if you do if you could just lay out how and when? I'll let John DeFord take the R&amp;D question and...
So Bob when you think about traditional R&amp;D investment then certainly hiring people is a big part of that.
However we also have a lot of R&amp;D partners.
We do a lot of open innovation and so we would also feel that we could deploy a significant amount of investment using some outside partners and our internal people to manage those projects and then of course over time build our teams.
It's not just an R&amp;D thing.
It's growing infrastructure across the company.
And Bob we have not -- we're in the process of evaluating the potential investment areas.
That's a fine line that's well downstream from where we are right now and I don't think we're in a position to be able to give you an accurate answer.
As it relates to getting the faster revenue growth it's a function of a couple of different things and the most important part of it is the underlying market.
During the course of the call and even in the Q&amp;A we talked about different issues in different markets biologics market being one that's flattened out.
The pelvic floor surgical and continence market and some of the impact of some of the regulatory pronouncements in that area having some impact.
So the whole game here is you want to invest more heavily in faster growing markets whether be geographic or product and do that both with internal investment and acquisition.
So it's a question of shifting more investment to those faster-growing areas and then the underlying growth of those areas picking back up.
And when that happens you'll start to see us grow faster.
Inc.</strong> That really does sound like the incremental investments are heading towards emerging markets and that does seem to be by far what's growing the fastest at Bard.
Is that an incorrect assumption? No.
We've been saying we've been investing heavily in those markets for the last few years.
And there are no additional questions.
This concludes our Q&amp;A session.
I would like to turn the call back over to Bard's management for closing or additional comments.
Great.
Thank you.
I'd just like to close by thanking everybody for attending the call today and I'd also like to take this opportunity as I always do to thank Bard employees around the world for a very good start to this year.
So we look forward to updating you on the progress next quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the C.
R.
Bard Inc.
Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through Bard's website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Christopher S.
Holland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information in Bard's March 31 2012 Form 10-Q and the information under the caption Risk Factors in Bard's 2011 10-K including disclosure of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance of the company and its individual products franchises.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings press release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of July 25 2012 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information.
Unless otherwise noted all comparisons are to the prior-year period.
At this time I will turn the call over to Mr.
Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Tom.
Good afternoon everybody.
I'd like to welcome you to Bard's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call and thank all of you for taking the time to join us today.
I would expect the presentation portion of the call to last about 30 minutes.
I'd like to begin today by introducing Chris Holland.
Chris joined us in May as our Senior VP and Chief Financial Officer replacing Todd Schermerhorn who as you know retired after 9 years of being in that role and 27 years in total at Bard.
We all wish Todd the best in retirement and I would like to publicly thank him for his passion intellect and insight he brought to our organization.
He certainly left some big shoes to fill and I have to tell you I couldn't be happier with our choice.
Although Chris has only been here a short time a couple of months now his many years of senior management experience at ARAMARK and his extensive background in medical devices at JPMorgan have prepared him well to contribute significantly from day 1.
As you get the chance to meet him in the coming months I'm confident that you will quickly see as we have that he's an exceptional leader who will help us successfully navigate the sizable opportunities and the challenges ahead of us.
So Chris welcome.
Thank you very much Tim.
The discussion today will go as follows.
I'll begin with an overview of the results for the second quarter of 2012.
John Weiland our President and COO will go through the second quarter product line revenue results.
Then you'll hear from Chris who will review the second quarter income statement balance sheet and our expectations for the third quarter.
And then John DeFord our Senior VP of Science Technology and Clinical Affairs will give you an update on our product development pipeline and then we'll close with Q&amp;A.
Second quarter 2012 net sales totaled $742.6 million up 2% over Q2 of last year on an as-reported basis and up 4% on a constant currency basis.
Currency impact for the quarter versus the same quarter last year was unfavorable by about 170 basis points.
Net income for the second quarter of 2012 was $133.9 million.
Diluted EPS were $1.54.
Excluding items that affected the comparability of results between the periods which Chris will cover later second quarter 2012 net income and diluted EPS were $140.5 million and $1.62 down 1% and up 3% respectively.
That's within our guidance for the quarter albeit at the lower end and reflects the impact from the challenging macro environment and currency headwinds.
As a reminder in Q1 we did exceed the top end of our guidance by $0.04 and Chris will give you further context on how we view the back half of the year a little bit later.
Looking at revenue growth geographically compared to Q2 last year second quarter net sales in the U.S.
increased 2% and once again while internationally we grew 8% on a constant currency basis.
Europe was a little weaker this quarter with a couple fewer sales bids compared to last year and grew 2% on constant currency basis.
Japan had another strong quarter growing 19% having some continued benefit from a competitor's quality issue in stents that we talked about last quarter.
Our other international businesses grew 13% in constant currency driven by 29% growth in our emerging markets.
On the business development side we don't have any new deals coming up at this time.
As we told you after the flurry of activity in Q4 of last year this process is opportunistic and results can be a little bit lumpy.
We do have a very strong business development process.
We're mainly focused on adding the appropriate pieces to our portfolio that will improve our growth and profitability over time.
As far as tracking the progress of our 2011 acquisitions we told you to expect about 200 basis points of growth this year from those and that was their impact in the second quarter.
You've probably seen our announcement that we've completed enrollment in the LEVANT 2 drug-coated balloon clinical trial and we achieved this important milestone ahead of schedule.
John DeFord will give you further details a little later so I'll just say that we're very pleased with the rapid progress of our drug-coated balloon program and I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate our team and also the investigators on this significant achievement.
Looking back at Q2 as usual we had some very positive developments in the quarter and some challenges.
The macro environment remains difficult.
The U.S.
weakness continued with the fourth straight quarter at 2% growth for us while Europe saw a step down in growth as I mentioned.
However our continued investments in our other geographies are keeping us within our guidance in total.
We remain committed to our original EPS guidance for the year even with sales through the first half of the year at the low end of guidance and currency working against us.
For the long term we remain focused on shifting the mix of our portfolio to higher growth areas through geographic investments internal R&amp;D and business development.
While we have no plans to change our approach in general we will as always stay very close to our customers and adjust to the facts on the ground as quickly and effectively as we possibly can.
Before I hand the call over to John Weiland I want to give you an update on the Gore litigation.
As most of you know on June 14 the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed its previous opinion from February except for the sole issue of Gore's willful infringement.
In its June 14 opinion the Federal Circuit clarified the standard for willful infringement and has remanded the case back to the District Court of Arizona to apply the newly created standard.
The key take away from the June decision is that the Federal Circuit affirmed the significant infringement award and clearly stated that the ongoing royalty rates would not change regardless of the ultimate outcome on the issue of willfulness.
At this point the timing of final resolution of this case in whole or in part is still uncertain.
It may take several more weeks or months for that timing to become more clear and we'll continue to keep you updated as things progress.
In the meantime we continue the process of evaluating alternatives for the use of these potential funds to drive shareholder value.
As we've said in the past it's our intention to invest approximately half of the earnings power associated with our favorable ruling in to growth initiatives for the business.
With that let me turn you over to John Weiland for a review of our product line revenue.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start let me point out that I will be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior-year period on a constant currency basis unless noted otherwise.
So let's begin with Vascular.
Growth in this category was 6% for the quarter.
Total net sales were $221.3 million up 3% over last year on an as-reported basis.
Our United States business was down 1% for the quarter while internationally we grew 15%.
Our electrophysiology sales were down 2% for the quarter with EP LabSystem sales down 1% and our disposable EP product lines down 2%.
Sales in our surgical graft category were down 7% in Q2 within the range of recent experiences.
Our endovascular business increased 9% in the second quarter with about 300 basis points coming from the ClearStream acquisition.
Within endovascular our biopsy products were flat this quarter compared to the second quarter last year.
The sales trajectory here has leveled off recently with the notable softness in the United States.
It's a very competitive space and it's a little early to know how much of the impact is from fewer screenings lower volumes or other factors.
Sales in our peripheral PTA line increased 5% where we continue to see double-digit growth in our chronic total occlusion or CTO product.
As you've heard our drug-coated balloon program is ahead of schedule and in fact we recorded our first sales in Europe this month.
I'll remind you that the big opportunity and therefore our focus is in the United States based on the clinical evidence but we're advancing as planned on all fronts here.
Sales in our vena cava filter line were up 2% in the second quarter which marks the first positive period in 3 years.
Our stent business grew 22% in Q2.
As you know this is a very dynamic area right now with competitors coming on label in the SFA in the United States.
And we continue to benefit from the competitor's quality issue especially in Japan.
We're very pleased with the results so far this year and how quickly our teams responded -- have responded to the needs of the market.
We'll continue to stay very close to our customers and emphasize the quality performance and longer lengths of our stent portfolio backed up with clinical evidence from long-term data.
Let's go to Urology.
Total net sales were $188.8 million up 5% versus Q2 of last year on a constant currency basis and up 3% on an as-reported basis.
The United States business grew 5% while internationally we grew 4%.
Our new targeted temperature management products accounted for about 600 basis points of the global growth for the total category.
Our basic drainage business was up 1% globally in the second quarter and flat in the United States while our I.C.
Foley business was down 2% globally and down 7% in the United States which is a little softer than recent trends here.
Our continence business was down 6% in Q2.
Our fecal management products grew double digits due to the launch of DIGNISHIELD which helped partly offset continuing declines in the women's health products.
Sales in urological specialties were down 10% in Q2 as the largest product line in the category our brachytherapy business was down 14%.
And finally in this category stand-alone sales of our STATLOCK catheters stabilization line increased 1% in the second quarter.
So let's now go to Oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $199.1 million an increase of 4% in constant currency and 3% over Q2 last year on an as-reported basis.
Geographically net sales in the United States were up 3%.
Internationally sales were up 6%.
Our port business was flat versus Q2 last year as we had some inventory timing issues working against us in Japan.
During the second quarter we launched our new family of intermediate-sized low artifact PowerPorts.
These ports offer the first platform in the market that significantly reduces MR and CT imaging artifact thereby reducing the effect of port placement on the interpretation of diagnostic scans.
Moreover the patented application of materials makes this port more transparent to radiation signals.
This means that it has very little effect on the amount of radiation passing through the port and those patients that also undergo radiation treatment.
Not only are these attributes very important in and of themselves they also allow clinicians to place the port in the preferred right side of the chest.
As we move through the remainder of the year we anticipate filling out this line with other sizes and configurations in both single and dual chamber PowerPort designs.
Our PICC revenue was up 7% this quarter.
Last quarter we told you that we had over 350 accounts in the United States who would either evaluate it or were evaluating our new tip confirmation system as an alternative to x-ray.
That combined number now exceeds 500 accounts.
This game-changing technology continues to be well received and is improving speed to treatment while reducing the cost and radiation exposure related to x-rays.
We estimate that approximately 225 000 annual x-rays have been eliminated accounting for over $11 million in direct cost savings to hospitals.
In the second quarter we launched our new PowerPICC FT family in both solo and non-solo valve versions.
The FT reduces the amount of catheter in the vein by up to 15% while not compromising the flow rate or the power injection capabilities offered by the PICC.
Our vascular access ultrasound product line was up 10% this quarter.
In late May we received 510(k) concurrence on our highly portable Site-Rite Prevue Ultrasound System and Pinpoint Gel Cap and Needle Guide.
This technology is designed to ease the placement of difficult peripheral IVs by enabling point-of-care imaging coupled with needle guidance yet without the application of ultrasound gel.
We have commenced the initial rollout of this technology combination and are very pleased with the level of interest thus far.
And to close out this category our dialysis access product line was up 3% this quarter.
Let's conclude then with our Surgical Specialties business.
Total net sales in this category were $111.4 million up 2% on a constant currency basis and basically flat on an as-reported basis.
U.S.
sales were up 3% and international sales were down 1% this quarter.
Our soft tissue repair business grew 2% in the second quarter within the range of recent quarters.
We continue to see double-digit growth over prior year in our synthetic hernia products led by ECHO PS VENTRIO ST and VENTRALEX ST all of which were launched in the back half of last year.
As we said last quarter the sales trajectory in our natural tissue products has leveled off over recent quarters.
That relatively flat trend continued in the second quarter of 2012 showing a decline of 4% when compared to Q2 of 2011.
Our hernia fixation business declined 26% this quarter consistent with recent experience due to competitive disruption.
And closing out the surgical category in Q2 our performance irrigation business was down 1% and our hemostasis business was also down 1% compared to the prior year.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to Chris Holland.
Thank you John.
Before I get into the P&amp;L details I just wanted to take a moment to thank Tim for his very generous introduction and to let you all know that I decided to join Bard in large part because of the strong history culture and track record of the company.
I also saw a terrific opportunity to become part of one of the best management teams in medical devices during a particularly dynamic time in health care.
Today's environment is creating unique opportunities and yes even challenges which I look forward to tackling as part of the Bard team.
I'm pleased to say that after an intense two-month immersion the reasons that brought me to Bard have been confirmed.
I'm now doing my best to come up to speed as quickly as possible and I look forward to meeting those of you I haven't already in the weeks and months to come.
Now let's get into the P&amp;L by starting with the items that affect the comparability of our results between periods.
In the second quarter we had acquisition-related items of about $800 000 associated primarily with the deals we closed in Q4.
We also took charges for asset impairments of approximately $9 million and the write-down of a foreign tax receivable of approximately $1.1 million.
And finally we had a favorable adjustment of about $1.6 million to our restructuring reserve that was established last year.
The P&amp;L impact of these items is detailed in the notes to the financial statements and the reconciliation accompanying our second quarter earnings press release.
Now let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $456.9 million or 61.5% of sales for the second quarter down 50 basis points from the prior-year quarter.
New amortization of intangibles relating to transactions that we closed in the last 12 months cost us about 70 basis points year-over-year in the quarter.
Price as we define it was unfavorable at 150 basis points on the sales line and 50 basis points in GP.
As a reminder this only captures changes in ASPs on a like-for-like SKU basis and would not reflect the impact from new but similar products that may be selling at higher average selling prices which we would capture in mix.
In any event for the first half pricing headwind has trended above our initial expectations of about 100 basis points of unfavorability on the sales line for the year.
And at this point we anticipate that it will likely continue to do so for the balance of 2012.
From a manufacturing standpoint our cost improvement programs and manufacturing efficiencies continue to generate strong results as our teams are doing a terrific job executing.
These efforts are particularly important in the face of stronger-than-expected headwinds from both price and currency.
While we do expect some variability in gross profit given our traction with these improvement and efficiency programs we remain comfortable with our full year gross profit guidance at this point in time.
SG&amp;A expenses were $205.4 million for the quarter or 27.7% of sales.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A as a percentage of net sales was 27.6% or 60 basis points higher than Q2 of 2011 with 80 basis points coming from the deals we closed in Q4.
Again this is consistent with our guidance.
We will of course continue to carefully and appropriately manage spending in this dynamic macro environment.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $50.1 million for the second quarter or 6.7% of sales on a reported and adjusted basis which is up 20 basis points as a percent of sales from the prior year.
This growth is consistent with our expectations and with what we told you last quarter as we look to productively invest in R&amp;D.
Interest expense was $9.7 million for the second quarter up modestly from a year ago because of higher debt levels related to the acquisitions we closed at the end of 2011.
Other income and expense was $6.2 million of expense for the second quarter as reported and $1.4 million of income on an as-adjusted basis driven mostly by foreign exchange gains.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 27.5% on track with our full year guidance.
Diluted shares for the period were 85.1 million and we repurchased 550 000 shares during the second quarter.
The net result is adjusted EPS of $1.62 within the range we provided for the quarter though in the lower half of that range as we had sales come in at the low end of our guidance and the currency headwind to deal with in the quarter.
When you combine this with EPS that was $0.04 above the top end of our guidance in Q1 through the first 6 months our 5% growth in adjusted EPS is ahead of our annual guidance range.
The balance sheet as of June 30 2012 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of $769.4 million versus $804.4 million as of March 31.
For the quarter accounts receivable days were down 1 day and inventory days were up 1.1 days.
Capital expenditures totaled $22.7 million for the quarter.
On the liability side total debt was $1.214 billion as of June 30 compared to $1.239 billion at March 31.
Debt-to-total cap at the end of the second quarter was about 39% and total shareholder investment was $1.922 billion at June 30 2012.
Moving to financial guidance.
For Q3 we expect constant currency sales growth between 3% and 5%.
The sales environment is certainly challenging particularly in the U.S.
and we are being appropriately cautious in this environment.
While our full year sales guidance remains unchanged realistically we are now focused on achieving growth at the lower end of that range which as you recall called for constant currency sales growth of 4%.
From an EPS standpoint excluding items affecting comparability we see the third quarter in the range of $1.60 to $1.64 per share.
For the full year we still expect to achieve the full year earnings guidance range of 3% to 4% growth which we provided to you in December which excluded the renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit.
As a reminder we estimate the tax credit is worth about $4 million or slightly less than 1% of incremental EPS growth.
With a somewhat more cautious sales growth outlook and currency now serving as a headwind as well we are working hard to appropriately balance our business priorities but still delivering on our full year earnings commitments to our shareholders.
I'll now turn you over to John DeFord.
Thanks Chris and good evening.
I'm just going to hit some highlights today starting with our ENCOMPASS atrial fibrillation ablation technology.
We began enrollment in our multicenter feasibility study in Q1 and we expect to complete enrollment with about 45 patients around the end of August.
Our recruitment has been brisk and we plan to use these data to support CE mark approval and European launch.
With our follow-up requirements we anticipate filing for the CE mark early this fall and then simultaneously launching the product and starting a broader European registry study early next year.
We of course also plan to submit the results to FDA around the end of the year to support our pivotal U.S.
IDE.
In PTA as Tim mentioned our LEVANT 2 pivotal clinical study of the Lutonix drug-coated balloon completed enrollment this month with 476 randomized patients recruited for the treatment of SFA and popliteal disease.
We'll follow these patients for 5 years but anticipate PMA submission with 1 year follow-up.
Also this month we began enrollment in the 650-patient LEVANT 2 Continued Access Registry study.
This registry closely mimics the inclusion exclusion and follow-up of the randomized study.
And on another note the LEVANT 1 2-year follow-up data are in and the first public presentation of the results is anticipated for the Sirsa [ph] meeting in August.
The manuscript is also in preparation and we anticipate publication early next year.
The Lutonix drug-coated balloon is CE marked as John said and we started selling in Europe this month.
We're also laying the groundwork for a large European-based registry study.
And as we presented last quarter we're in active discussions with FDA and working towards the submission of an IDE to study the Lutonix drug-coated balloon in below-the-knee arterial disease.
Also in PTA we're building inventory for the launch of our new line of ATLAS large diameter PTA catheters upon 510(k) concurrence anticipated in Q3.
We're also gearing up for the launch of a new CROSSER product for central lumen access across chronic total occlusions and new 300-millimeter length ULTRAVERSE balloons.
All are anticipated to begin rolling out this quarter.
In biopsy we're progressing on schedule with the development of our new SENOMARK ultra breast biopsy marker.
This new marker is designed for long-term stability and visibility and is anticipated for launch in Q4.
Now turning to Urology.
In our new temperature management business we remain on track with our development of a new ARCTICGEL pad system for application in the emergency room or at the point of first contact with the patient.
We anticipate launch around the end of the year.
This new proprietary product we're naming ARCTIC BLAST allows for the initiation and support of cooling for between 60 and 90 minutes without the need to be tethered to the ARCTIC SUN system.
However the ARCTIC BLAST pads also support connection to the ARCTIC SUN to continue cooling and temperature control without the need to exchange pads.
Moving on to Oncology.
As we discussed in the last couple of calls we submitted our 510(k) for the antimicrobial COVERT PowerPICC late last year and continued to assess the process to create a reasonable path forward for U.S.
introduction.
We're still working with the FDA on this product and in parallel we're evaluating several other opportunities and pathways to bring this technology to clinicians and their patients.
We submitted a 510(k) on our POWERGLIDE midline catheter in Q1 and we're very pleased to receive concurrence in early June.
This device incorporates a number of very important elements including an integrated guidewire that reduces the difficulty of placement and a dwell time of up to 29 days all while retaining the technique of traditional peripheral IV placement.
We're in the early phase of rolling this device out and we expect full commercialization this quarter.
In imaging we're making good progress on our Site-Rite 7 ultrasound platform scheduled for launch in Q4 in Europe and around the end of the year in the U.S.
And our Fazer freehand stereotactic system is on schedule and we anticipate a first launch in the first half of next year.
Finally moving to surgery.
After last quarter's launch of our flat sheet PHASIX mesh we're making good progress on our PHASIX plug design for inguinal hernia repair.
As a reminder PHASIX Is designed to provide the look feel and function of our standard polypropylene products with equivalent strength during healing.
The PHASIX material is unique due to its monofilament construction and extended period of resorption leaving the patient with no foreign material in the body after about a year.
Our 510(k) is under review and we expect clearance around late Q3 or early Q4.
So we're about a quarter ahead of schedule as discussed last time.
In ventral hernia repair we're on schedule and expect to launch several new sizes of the VENTRALIGHT ST product later this quarter and into Q4.
We also anticipate the launch of a new and improved ECHO PS later in the year.
This will further extend our leadership in this important segment of the laparoscopic hernia repair market.
Those are some of the highlights.
Thanks for your attention.
Let me now give you back to Tim Ring.
Thanks John.
That does conclude the formal part of the presentation.
I'll now turn the call back to the moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Tom? [Operator Instructions] And we will go to Jon Palmer's line representing CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Chris first question.
Could you just talk about the impact of FX on the gross margin? And then what happens going forward if the euro continues to deteriorate here? Sure.
I'd be happy to.
If we look at the 50 basis points of degradation in GP year-over-year currency was about 10 basis points of that.
As I've mentioned deal amort cost us 70 in the quarter.
Mix was just slightly negative really due to the ClearStream products with their below-average GPs.
And then price as I've said was 50 basis points and again that was offset by the very strong effect of our cost improvement programs of 90 basis points.
Research Division</strong> And if the euro continues to head south here? Yes I think obviously sitting here today reconfirming full year guidance we're comfortable with the current levels.
Obviously any material move lower makes that more challenging.
But obviously we're focused on doing what we can.
But to the extent the move is material it'll become more challenging.
The next question today comes from the line of Larry Keusch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tim historically you guys have always been very active in share repurchase and I just wanted to pick your brain a little bit on just philosophically how you think about dividends.
Your current yield is kind of 0.8%.
And if the world is getting more challenging and growth is harder to come by does it make sense to kind of think about more of a total return strategy to reward shareholders as opposed to just repurchasing stock? Sure.
Well let me go through the criteria as we have them set today and I'll talk a little bit about our process.
The first use of cash for us is clearly strategic.
We are actively pursuing a lot of different things at the moment.
That's not a new thing for us so that remains the same.
Second is share repurchase and then the third is dividend.
As you know and you mentioned the yield we paid a dividend for I don't know 30-something years and raise it every year albeit modest.
So that's where it stands today.
We do talk about this with our board at virtually every board meeting.
If something changes there we'll let you know but that's the way we look at it currently.
Our next question today comes from the line of Matthew Taylor with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask about Gore.
You provided the update on the litigation.
But what can you tell us about your expectations for timing and/or the decoupling of the 2 awards? Yes I think as Tim said in his prepared remarks Matt the case is on its way back to the District Court.
The timing of exactly when we get clarity on bifurcation is as Tim said weeks or months away at this point.
We just don't know.
As he also said we will let you know as soon as there's a material development to that effect.
I think what certainly you should expect and what we certainly can tell you is that we will do everything we can to collect on the damages as quickly as we can.
And that's something we're very focused on and that's what we're going to do.
But unfortunately sitting here today being more specific on timing is something we're just not able to do.
Research Division</strong> And just with that as a backdrop I mean how do you think about some of your plans to accelerate investments given some uncertainty there? Yes well we go through an annual budgeting process at which point in time we look at all the investments we want to make anyway.
So that process is really just starting.
It hasn't come to our level yet at corporate.
And I'm sure the businesses will be looking at some of those ideas that they submitted to us as part of the investment strategy associated with the Gore proceeds versus their list that they currently have and reprioritize those accordingly in their budgets when the agreement affords [ph].
So in other words we'll integrate the 2 and prioritize based on what we think the best returns will be.
It's part of our normal process.
Our next question is from Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Chris so just to clarify is your outside counsel indicating that the issue of bifurcation will be dictated by the lower court? Yes I think as we said Mike the case is going back to the lower court and there will need to be a determination at the lower court as to how the case proceeds from there.
Certainly if you read the appeal or the result of the case as it was written that was pretty much a strong recommendation that they're separate issues but that still has to be decided by the court.
Right.
Research Division</strong> So it's still to be determined whether the clock has started on their need to file an appeal with the Supreme Court if they're going to do so? I mean I think that's fair.
The clock has started as it relates to that first decision.
Depending upon what the next court decides they would also obviously then have an appeal mechanism available there as well.
So they kind of have 2 shots at that depending upon what the outcome is at the district court.
Research Division</strong> Let me ask a couple fundamental items.
One can you quantify the supply impact that would that had on the ports business this quarter if that's resolved? And then two can you just spend another minute on biopsy? It was wide this quarter.
I didn't understand the first part of your question.
The what impact? Was it the supply impact or...
Research Division</strong> Yes.
The supply issue that impacted your ports business.
Well our Japan business because it's a joint venture we sell into the joint venture at which point in time they sell out to the end-user customers.
And the effect of that was about $1 million but it was enough to change the trajectory on that port business overall for the corporation.
Research Division</strong> So that was -- I misunderstood this.
That was your own distributor stocking rather than [indiscernible].
Okay understood.
And then biopsy? And what was your question on biopsy? Research Division</strong> Why was biopsy as weak as it was in this quarter? We had a slower quarter in the United States quite frankly.
And as we said in our earlier comments it's hard to tell whether this is a trend or it's an aberration at this point in time.
But it certainly is -- we're trying to get a better handle on the underlying demand in terms of the number of procedures that are moving through the biopsy arenas right now.
We'll go to the line of Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So 2 quick things.
First I just want to be clear on your comments on pricing.
Are you suggesting that you feel pricing might get worse than the 150 basis points it's been at in the first half of the year? Or just that it's going to remain at this level and not go back down to the 100 you predicted at the beginning of the year? Yes just our expectations at this point is likely to remain at these levels.
Yes we have guided -- in our guidance we have put about 100 negative and we've been at 150 now for...
2 quarters.
2 quarters.
So that's what that comment relates to.
Research Division</strong> And then Tim just -- you've being growing low single digits excluding acquisitions now for a couple of quarters well below historical trends.
And I just wanted to get your latest take on how much of this is just simply global markets being slower than they have been in the past and a little bit more pricing pressure versus Bard's specific issues that -- just kind of what's the split there in your mind at this point that's keeping the growth down at these low levels? Yes.
I would heavily weight it to the macro environment.
I think with very -- with a couple of exceptions maybe fixation being one where we think we're losing some share there our share positions continue to be for the most part pretty much where they've been.
And when you look at the broad breadth of the product line that we have we're seeing it across the board.
It's not like in any one area.
And as you know the diversity of the products although they're all medical devices clearly they don't relate to each other very much within the hospital.
So we think it's an overall softness.
Can we execute better in certain areas? Absolutely and we focus on that every day.
But I would characterize this very much to be more of a macro issue.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly real quick.
Now that you've got Chris on board -- and Chris welcome look forward to meeting -- but also David on board.
You've got a lot of in-house firepower from an M&amp;A perspective.
I was just curious with these hires you haven't done large transactions in your history.
I think the largest was in the $300 million range.
As we look forward and assume that Gore does happen is there a potential that you guys would consider larger transactions at a higher probability than you have in the past? No.
And let me -- well that has come up a couple times.
I can say that absolutely that both of those hires are because they were well qualified bright aggressive people that we thought fit here had absolutely nothing to do with both of them at one point having a banking background.
In fact we took them despite the fact they were bankers.
Research Division</strong> So is that a no though on the larger transactions? Well we've never ruled anything out as we said in past and there's no change I guess in the strategy at all from what we've done in the past.
And we'll go to the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Tim I wonder if we just think about -- Chris commented that was in the guidance for the back half of the year and it actually doesn't look particularly aggressive.
It basically implies flat organic performance into the back half.
Is that sort of how you -- what kind of visibility you think you have right now sort of on back half of the year performance? And organic growth has slipped a little bit in the second quarter but not really dramatically.
Comps get a little easier into the back half.
So is your performance to assume market environment is sort of at neutral as you saw here in the second quarter and that really drives the back half updated guidance? Yes I think if you've been following us for a long time you know we tend to probably be more on the cautious side of things.
And we're definitely seeing some things in the marketplace and you got the currency issue.
We think the guidance was right where it should be in terms of what we think is going to happen with the business.
John Weiland if you want to...
No I think that's absolutely appropriate based on what we're seeing in the marketplace.
We haven't seen any new trends that would suggest that demand is going to increase substantially in the United States side of the equation yet.
And then adding to that David obviously if you read headlines out of Europe things are not getting any better there right? So there's -- it's hard to find reasons for optimism as you look around.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Very helpful.
Just one more quick one on LEVANT.
Based on the press release that came this evening should we assume that Continued Access data or is it your assumption that you will submit some portions of Continued Access data with a full submission for approval in the U.S.? Or has that decision not been made yet? This is John.
We fully expect to submit some level of data from the Continued Access patients.
I think there's no secret that FDA has been asking for more information on rare events for example.
And so collecting that information through our Continued Access as well as the LEVANT 1 data and the European registry all of those things will be part of the submission.
Research Division</strong> And John do you think that will affect your previously stated timelines in the U.S.? No.
We took that all into account in the timeline.
And we have a question from Matthew Dodds representing Citi.
Research Division</strong> John first for you.
It looked like brachytherapy was coming back the last couple quarters and then it came down a lot this quarter.
Is that U.S.
or something happened o U.S.? No.
There was a little bit in the U.S.
but also some of the decline we've also saw x U.S.
and it was pricing primarily in one country in Europe.
Research Division</strong> Can you say which country? Prefer not to.
But there was a reimbursement changed Matt.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one more on the product lines.
Stent grafts to 22% constant currency.
That was up from last quarter.
Was that all S.M.A.R.T.? Or is LifeStent still gaining share in your view in the U.S.
and in international markets? It's holistic.
It includes all of them including LifeStar our other new entry into that market of about 3 months ago.
Research Division</strong> So it's not the full quarter of the S.M.A.R.T.
stent being off the market that you think you gained share or the market performed well? We think we gained share for sure.
And we'll go to Topher Orr's line with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to touch on a couple of the acquisitions you guys did back in the fourth quarter ClearStream and Medivance.
I know you guys had previously indicated you expected to do about 80 basis points to your SG&amp;A line coming from incremental spending on these 2 acquisitions.
I was wondering is that still tracking about in that range? And from a top line perspective how have these deals been tracking relative to your initial expectations? Yes.
In terms of the impact on SG&amp;A Topher you're exactly right about 80 basis points.
So the impact we're seeing in the quarter is from the deals.
I think as we also said 200 basis points of our growth are coming from the deals which is what we told you you should expect.
So I'd say by and large they are tracking.
We think they both continue to be very good opportunities.
We're working hard on executing.
We think the integrations have gone well.
So I think it's still early days but we think we're tracking.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one follow-up looking at your Oncology business.
I know you guys mentioned the Japanese inventory issue had about a $1 million impact I think you said earlier.
But just relative to first quarter the growth rate this quarter looked to be slightly more than that $1 million decline.
I was just wondering are there any other issues that were happening in the quarter maybe in the United States that had an impact on the Oncology business? There was nothing other major.
That was by far the major point that impacted the quarter-to-quarter growth rates going from 7% to 4%.
The majority of it is capsulated within that.
And we have a question from Tom Gunderson with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> On the drug-coated balloon and for sales in Europe I think you said that U.S.
is the focus.
But can you give us a sense of what distribution would look like? Are you focusing on a couple of countries.
As we all know it's crowded over there in drug-coated balloon.
So I'm just curious if you could give a little more color.
No.
We're rolling it out across Europe within our vascular sales force.
We built that team over the years.
I think they're very well positioned with the relationships that we've had with customers on the stent business PTA business et cetera to take advantage of it.
So we're rolling that out across the board.
And Tom just -- we think that clinical data and clinical information is really going to drive the opportunity here.
And so that's why we think LEVANT 2 is so critical.
We think the Continued Access is important and this European registry that we talked about is also important.
Right now there's really no clinical data from anybody that's a game-changing information to really drive the market one direction or another.
So we think until that LEVANT 2 data comes out which is about a year from now we're not going to be in a position to really drive much in that marketplace.
So we're heavily focused on executing on those clinicals getting that data out there getting it published getting it presented and so on.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then Tim with the pricing pressure up higher and all the stories we hear et cetera how have you -- have you made any changes recently as to how you focus the value proposition particularly on the premium priced products? What have you had to do differently to get the contracts in and get the volume up? Sure.
Clearly you've got to now have the clinical data to make the case.
You also need the medical economic data to make the case.
So I would say that over the last couple of years especially if you looked at I think -- John DeFord correct me if I'm wrong on my number but I think last year we did 51 clinical trials.
And only about 1/3 of those were for regulatory approvals.
The rest were for things like -- that generate that kind of additional information that's needed to create a more compelling value proposition.
Research Division</strong> And do those need -- sorry just a quick follow-up.
Does that need to be published? Or is it internal and shared with the purchasing? It's a combination of those things.
It's a multifaceted approach.
Yes.
But actually I'll just tell you that today with the clinicaltrials.gov requirements virtually every one of these studies will ultimately be published.
And we have a question from Kristen Stewart representing Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to clarify one of the earlier questions on -- he was talking about gross margins.
Did I hear correctly that mix was a negative 50 basis points? Yes it was -- it sort of rounds to 10 basis points Kristen and again really primarily due to the ClearStream acquisition year-over-year impact.
So those are much lower average GPs but they're just slightly negative.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just going to R&amp;D in the quarter can you maybe just help us break out how much was incremental related to Lutonix? Because I know that kind of increased R&amp;D for this I guess entire year.
And then also just maybe commenting on what your core R&amp;D rate was this quarter relative to last year's spend? Yes Kristen we're not going to break out separately investments for R&amp;D and acquisitions that we make.
I think what's important at a more strategic level is when we buy these things we do look at them as platforms.
So if you were to look at the last several years' worth of acquisitions there's more R&amp;D being spent there than maybe some of the older product lines because there's better growth there and higher potential.
So we are investing more in the faster growing areas but we're not going to break out separate R&amp;D spend by product lines.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I guess just as a follow-up to that then looking at kind of I guess less favorable mix and pricing across your businesses.
Should we also assume that as you look to reinvest those proceeds that may come with the Gore acquisition that it may be more likely to be external investments with R&amp;D and buying new products since it doesn't seem like the core R&amp;D growth has really been there for the last couple years? No.
I wouldn't see a change in track there.
We -- you could look at several of the product lines that John cited John Weiland in his review.
I mean we've got some new products growing double digits well into the double digits.
So we're not that disappointed with the outcome there.
And I think as we look at the additional investments going forward most of them will be in R&amp;D.
And then of course you're going to have various geographic expansion opportunities things of that nature as well.
More of what we've been doing is just the pace and the timing of some of those things and we've been moving forward.
Question comes from the line of Matthew O'Brien representing William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask a bit more on the gross margin guidance for the year.
I think you reiterated what you've said in the past and I think the low end of that range is about a 20 basis point improvement year-over-year.
When I look at what you did in 2011 up over 62.1%.
To get up to 62.3% for the full year 2012 would assume some pretty significant improvements in the second half of the year on the gross margin line.
Can you just provide a little bit more granularity as far as where that's going to come from and your comfort level there? Yes actually Matt I think I need to clarify your understanding of the guidance.
The guidance was actually GP.
It would be down 20 to 50 basis points including 70 basis points from the incremental amortization.
So actually what we're comfortable with is that guidance as well.
So including the amorts down 20 to 50 year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just real quickly you mentioned I think Tim that you're a couple of days late in terms of a couple of fewer selling days in Europe this quarter compared to last year.
Can you just give us a sense for the impact in the quarter of those fewer selling days maybe they had daily sales type of a number? And then just your comfort level on the health of the emerging markets out there because the growth again in the quarter was very strong.
We try Matt -- this is John.
We try not to get into this selling days issue because you end up chasing your tail for a year on it and we don't allow our people to make any excuses on selling days to us in terms of performance.
So we don't use them ourselves.
But I would say it this way is the best explanation.
As we looked at all the countries in Europe we saw the same degradation in growth rates in essence in every market throughout Europe both north and south.
So that's what made us comfortable that there was a real issue there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the health of the emerging markets? Emerging markets continue to do extremely well and I think you'll see that -- you saw that in our results as well.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
But just your comfort level that the outlook there is still quite dynamic.
Well if you look at some of the largest geographies China being a good example our growth rates in China were identical to what they were in the first quarter.
So...
We'll go to the line of Michael Matson with Mizuho Securities.
[Operator Instructions] Research Division</strong> I guess just on your -- the antimicrobial PICC I'm just wondering what sort of uptake you expect from that product? And do you really expect that to be sort of a significant mix driver for that business? Or is it really something that's going to be more of a niche product? Michael that's a good question.
We don't usually talk about our expectations for an individual product.
I do want to remind you that that product is not available yet.
We continue to work with the FDA on getting concurrence for that product.
So it is not available yet at this point.
I would say that the big movers in the category which is really our focus is the 5.4 French Triple Lumen PowerPICC that we launched in the first half the Sherlock 3CG that we launched in the first half and I'd say the Site-Rite Prevue and the POWERGLIDE midline catheter.
They're all pretty significant opportunities for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Lutonix any updates in terms of partnerships for coronary application of that product? No.
Nothing to report on in that topic yet.
Research Division</strong> But you're planning to do something in that regard correct? Well we're still going through the assessment of exactly what we want to do with it.
And once we determine what that is we'll let you know.
And we'll go to Joanne Wuensch's line with BMO Capital Markets.
When I think about the Gore litigation I think of you as sort of winning a lottery ticket at the end of this year and a lot of cash coming through.
How do you internally plan for that? How do you think about allocating between beefing up R&amp;D SG&amp;A and acquisitions? Yes.
Okay.
So what we've done and I think I covered this in the last call but we've had a process for 10 years here where we keep a standing queue of additional investments we want to make and those are reviewed and reprioritized if need be each month based on return.
Those are decisions we make here at corporate because you could have one business' fifth submission will be better than another business' first submission.
So we make those choices here.
We basically use that same process in looking at the Gore money.
So we told the divisions and the businesses submit your ideas along with return on investment calculations the way we would normally do those and then we sat around as a group after a few different levels of review a very senior level team here sat down and basically made those decisions of what we would do.
I think the good news is that in fact just anecdotally that's a lot of money to invest right? And John Weiland and I sat around so geez I wonder if they're going to have enough ideas.
There was enough ideas to spend all of it.
So we had some really good choices that we could make going forward.
And going back to an earlier question if the money is delayed even further some of those I'm sure are going to get integrated in our normal budget process going forward.
We're not going to just put that list aside and wait.
So it's a dynamic list that moves forward.
We've gone through a very disciplined diligent process.
We will review and have preliminarily reviewed that with our board.
So they're in sync with us.
And then when and if that all transpires we'll tell you exactly how we plan on doing that.
So I take it that hurdling the med tech tax next year will be pretty easy for you guys if all works out? Nothing is ever easy these days Joanne.
And our final question today will come from the line of Josh Jennings with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just first on Europe seem to be the real territory where you suffered a sequential downtick in growth.
Can you parse out for us -- John I think you said that each country each region was down kind of across the board.
But can you parse out for us what you're seeing in Europe in terms of whether that growth is being stunted by price versus utilization and procedure volumes? No.
We've been very positive in that the impact of price in Europe has really not been significant at all as consistent with what we said in the first quarter.
Really what we saw in the second quarter was just really volume related and it was across the board in every country.
And quite frankly there wasn't a significant degradation in revenue growth in some of the southern region countries that you would expect it versus the northern region countries.
So that's what led us to believe it was just really -- it was really volume utilization based on differentials and days.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just last question in terms of your guidance here for the rest of the year what have you baked in in terms of your assumptions for utilization in the U.S.
and in Europe? I guess you would say we basically lowered our revenue guidance for the third quarter.
So you would say by definition we would expect that to have a little more headwind primarily in Europe and the U.S.
at least for the next quarter.
Our assumption going to the year was no improvement in the environment.
I think what we're kind of sensing here is we might be getting a little more negative than that at least in those big geographies U.S.
and Europe.
And that concludes the Q&amp;A session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Bard's management for any closing comments.
Great.
Thanks and I'd like to thank everybody for taking the time to spend with us today and your questions.
And I'd also like to close by thanking Bard employees around the world for their commitment to excellence.
And again thanks everybody for joining us and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to C.
R.
Bard Incorporated Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Christopher S.
Holland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information in Bard's June 30 2012 Form 10-Q and the information under the caption Risk Factors in Bard's 2011 10-K including disclosures of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance of the company and its individual product franchises.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings press release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of October 23 2012 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information.
Unless otherwise noted all comparisons are to the prior-year period.
At this time I will turn the call over to Mr.
Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Trish.
Good afternoon everybody.
I'd like to welcome you to Bard's third quarter 2012 earnings conference call and thank all of you for taking the time to join us today.
I would expect the presentation portion of the call to last about 25 minutes or so.
The agenda today will go as follows: I'll start with an overview of the results for the third quarter; John Weiland our President and COO will review our third quarter product line revenue; Chris Holland our senior VP and CFO will then review the third quarter income statement balance sheet as well as our expectations for Q4; and then John DeFord our senior VP Science Technology and Clinical Affairs will give you an update on our product development pipeline and then finally we'll close with Q&amp;A.
Third quarter 2012 net sales totaled $722.9 million that's up 1% over Q3 last year on an as-reported basis and up 3% on a constant currency basis.
The impact of currencies for the quarter versus Q3 of last year was unfavorable by about 230 basis points.
Net income for the quarter was $129.3 million and diluted earnings per share were $1.50.
Excluding items that affected the comparability of results between periods which Chris will discuss later Q3 net income and diluted EPS were $141.4 million and $1.64 down 2% and up 1% respectively.
Looking at the revenue growth geographically compared to Q3 of last year third quarter revenue net sales in the U.S.
were soft declining 1%.
In contrast internationally we grew 11% on a constant currency basis this quarter with Europe growing 5% Japan growing 15% both on a constant currency basis.
Our other international businesses grew 16% in constant currency driven by 34% growth in our emerging markets which now by the way represent 6% of our total revenue up from 2% just 4 years ago.
As you can see our significant investments in the faster growing markets are producing strong returns as our international businesses grew double digits in aggregate this quarter and now represent about 1/3 of our overall sales mix.
We are focused on driving revenue growth and expect to continue to shift the mix of our portfolio to both faster growing geographic and product markets.
We continue to seek product and platform opportunities through internal development and external acquisitions that will improve our growth profile over time.
To that end we're pleased to announce today the acquisition of Neomend Inc.
a leading developer of a proprietary absorbable hydrogel technology with applications in surgical sealant and anti-adhesion products.
Neomend currently markets the only FDA-approved product available for intraoperative sealing of air leaks following lung resection and has a robust pipeline of potential future clinical indications that are designed to reduce costly postoperative complications across a variety of surgical specialties.
This product will fit nicely within our surgical business and we expect to leverage our global infrastructure to drive synergies and grow this exciting platform over the long term.
The initial revenue impact will be immaterial to our total sales and we expect that the acquisition will be about $0.05 dilutive to our Q4 2012 EPS and up to $0.15 dilutive in 2013 and be accretive thereafter.
Looking at the contributions of our 2011 acquisitions we told you to expect about 200 basis points of growth this year from those and that was their impact in Q3.
Now for an update on the Gore litigation.
The case is advancing on 2 fronts as Gore filed its Petition for Cert with the U.S.
Supreme Court on the infringement issue only on October 12 and we have a scheduling conference with the District Court judge on the willfulness issue in mid-November.
We expect that over the coming months we should be able to provide some additional clarity related to the timing of the resolution of the case.
Before I turn the call over to John Weiland we have an announcement I'm guessing that many of you will be happy about as you schedule your end of year plans.
As you know for the last several years we've had our analyst meeting in late December right before and occasionally conflicting with the holiday season.
It seems that we're often the last meeting on the calendar before analysts and investors can get to their more important plans.
We've decided to change this approach.
Going forward we will move our meeting to the middle of the year.
So our next analyst day and product fair will be in June 2013.
In connection with that change we will now provide annual guidance for the following year on our Q4 Results Conference Call which is consistent with the majority of others in our sector.
Now let me turn you over to John Weiland for a review of our product line revenue.
Good afternoon everyone and before I start let me point out that I will be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior-year period on a constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
So let's begin with vascular.
Growth in this category was 1% for the quarter.
Total net sales were $202.5 million down 3% over last year on an as-reported basis.
Our U.S.
business was down 5% for the quarter while internationally we grew 11%.
Our electrophysiology sales were down 4% for the quarter with EP Lab systems down 8% and our disposable EP product lines were down 3%.
Sales in our surgical graft category were down 6% in third quarter within the range of recent experience.
Our endovascular business increased 3% for the third quarter.
Within endovascular our biopsy products declined 1% this quarter compared to Q3 of last year.
As we said last quarter the sales trajectory here has leveled off recently with noticeable softness in the United States.
Sales in our peripheral PTA line increased 7%.
In the third quarter we launched the new CROSSER catheter for the treatment of chronic total occlusions and late last month began the rollout of our 300-millimeter length ULTRAVERSE balloons.
Looking forward I'll remind you that we anniversary-ed the ClearStream acquisition this month so these comps will get tougher in the fourth quarter.
Sales in our vena cava filter line were down 4% in Q3.
Our stent business grew 5% in the third quarter as the competitor with the quality issue in the first half of the year came back on the market at the beginning of the third quarter.
Let's now go to urology.
Total net sales were $188.1 million up 5% versus Q3 of last year on a constant currency basis and up 3% on an as-reported basis.
The United States business grew 3% while internationally we grew 9%.
Our new targeted temperature management products again accounted for about 600 basis points of the global growth for the total category.
Our basic drainage business was up 1% globally in Q3 and flat in the United States which is consistent with the recent experience here.
Our I.C.
Foley business was flat globally and down 4% in the United States also consistent with recent trends.
Our incontinence business was flat in the third quarter after 10 straight quarters of decline.
Our fecal management products grew double digits again which helped partly offset continuing declines in our women's health products.
Sales in urological specialties were down 5% in the third quarter as the largest product line in the category our brachytherapy business was down 14%.
As you may know the United States Preventive Services Task Force has recently recommended against PSA screenings.
While many urologists and prostate cancer specialists disagree with this recommendation it has led to fewer screenings which leads to fewer treatments.
And finally in this category stand-alone sales of our STATLOCK catheter stabilization line which represents about 15% of the total urology category decreased 4% in the third quarter.
Let's now go to oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $203.9 million an increase of 4% in constant currency and 3% over Q3 last year on an as-reported basis.
Geographically net sales in the United States were up 1%.
Internationally sales were up 12%.
Our port business increased 2% over the third quarter of last year.
Our PICC revenue was up 5% in the third quarter impacted by the broad softness in volume we saw in the United States this quarter.
Our Sherlock 3CG sales conversion rates continue at an exceptional level and we're still in the early innings here but we don't see anything slowing our progress.
In the third quarter we launched the POWERGLIDE midline catheter.
POWERGLIDE is a platform designed to address several of the complications associated with traditional PID catheters particularly in difficult-to-access patients.
This device incorporates an integrated safety needle and tethered guide wire system that can simplify placement and support a catheter dwell time of up to 29 days all while retaining the basic technique of traditional peripheral IV placement.
Our vascular access ultrasound product line was up 3% this quarter.
In Q3 we began the launch of our highly portable Site-Rite Prevue Ultrasound System and Pinpoint Gel Cap and Needle Guide.
This technology is designed to ease the placement of difficult peripheral IVs by enabling point-of-care imaging coupled with needle guidance without the application of ultrasound gel.
And to close out this category our dialysis access product line was up 3% this quarter.
Let's conclude our discussions this afternoon with our surgical specialties business.
Total net sales in this category were $107.7 million up 2% on a constant currency basis and flat on an as-reported basis.
U.S.
sales were down 2% and international sales grew 13% this quarter.
Our soft tissue repair business grew 2% in Q3 within the range of recent results.
In ventral hernia repair we launched at the American College of Surgeons several new sizes of the lightweight resorbable barrier VENTRALIGHT ST product available with or without the integrated ECHO PS laparoscopic mesh positioning system.
We anticipate launching further extensions to these products later this quarter and into next year.
In biologics the level sales trajectory we talked about for the last couple of quarters in our natural tissue products has continued showing a decline of 1% this quarter when compared to the third quarter of 2011.
Our hernia fixation business declined 19% this quarter consistent with recent experience.
In closing out the surgical category in Q3 our performance irrigation business was down 1% and our hemostasis business grew 7% compared to the prior year.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to Chris Holland.
Thanks John.
Let's start with the items that affect the comparability of our results between periods.
In Q3 we had acquisition-related items of about $4.5 million and we also took a charge for an asset impairment of approximately $13.2 million related to a non-focus product line.
The P&amp;L impact for these items is detailed in the notes to the financial statements and the reconciliation accompanying our Q3 earnings release.
Now let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $450.3 million or 62.3% of sales for Q3 up 50 basis points from the prior year quarter.
New amortization of intangibles relating to transactions closed in the last 12 months cost us about 70 basis points year-over-year this quarter.
Price was unfavorable at about 130 basis points on the revenue line and approximately 50 basis points in gross profit about in line with the last couple of quarters.
So despite difficult headwinds our strong manufacturing results drove good improvement to gross profit this quarter.
We anticipated this and we told you last quarter to expect some variability in our gross margin due to the timing of our cost-improvement projects and other factors.
In Q4 we do have certain timing issues that will moderate the gross margin percentage somewhat in the quarter but we remain comfortable with our full year gross margin guidance which was for a decrease of 20 to 50 basis points from 2011 when including the impact of 70 basis points in new amortization.
SG&amp;A expenses were $196.9 million for the quarter or 27.2% of sales.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A as a percentage of net sales was 27.0% or 100 basis points higher than Q3 of 2011 with 80 basis points coming from the deals closed last year consistent with our guidance and demonstrating our increased investment in emerging markets.
For the full year we are tracking to the SG&amp;A guidance that we provided to you in December.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $52.2 million or 7.2% of sales on a reported basis for the third quarter.
On an adjusted basis R&amp;D was 6.9% of sales which is up 40 basis points as a percent of sales from the prior year reflecting investments in our Lutonix drug-coated balloon platform.
We expect R&amp;D expense as a percentage of sales to continue to increase somewhat.
Interest expense was $9.7 million for the third quarter up modestly from a year ago because of higher debt levels related to the acquisitions we completed at the end of 2011.
Other income and expense was $13.6 million of expense for the third quarter as reported and $0.6 million of income on an adjusted basis driven mostly by foreign exchange gains.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 27.8% as our full year effective tax rate moved up 10 basis points to 27.6% consistent with our guidance for the year which called for 50 to 70 basis points of improvement from our 2011 effective rate of 28.1%.
Diluted shares for the period were 84.6 million and we repurchased approximately 2 million shares during the third quarter.
The net result is adjusted EPS of $1.64 at the top of the guidance range we provided to you for the quarter.
The balance sheet as of September 30 2012 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of $836.6 million up from $769.4 million at June 30.
For the quarter accounts receivables days were down 2.2 days and inventory days were up 2 days due primarily to currency.
Capital expenditures totaled $13.2 million for the quarter.
On the liability side total debt was $1.293 billion as of September 30 compared to $1.214 billion as of June 30.
Debt to total cap at the end of the third quarter was about 41% and total shareholder investment was $1.89 billion at September 30.
Moving to financial guidance.
For Q4 we are expecting constant currency sales growth between 0% and 2%.
Obviously the sales environment is pretty challenging particularly in the U.S.
and we're trying to be appropriately cautious in this tough environment.
Our Q4 sales expectations would put our full year constant currency sales growth between 3% and 4%.
From an EPS standpoint excluding items affecting comparability we see the fourth quarter in the range of $1.64 to $1.68 reflecting the $0.05 of dilution from Neomend that Tim mentioned.
So with the deterioration in the U.S.
market that we've seen during the year we're now aiming at the low end of our original EPS growth target for the year excluding the new dilution from the Neomend acquisition.
As for the renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit we likely won't have clarity on that until the very end of the year.
We still estimate that the credit is worth about $4 million or just less than 1% of EPS.
Now let me turn you over to John DeFord.
Thanks Chris.
Before I get into the review of some projects in our portfolio I'd like to take a moment and share a little of our emerging markets new product strategy.
Over the last 2 to 3 years we've made significant investments in our regulatory clinical and marketing teams at our design centers and directly in the geographies specifically to support the rapid introduction and launch of Bard products in these emerging markets.
Those investments are beginning to pay off and those teams are now supporting over 140 filings that will drive important launches in 2013 and beyond.
Now jumping into our pipeline I'll just provide an update on a few key projects today.
Anything I don't mention remains on track with our prior communications.
I'll start with our ENCOMPASS atrial fibrillation ablation technology.
We completed enrollment in the feasibility study early in the quarter and we'll follow these patients for a year.
We're compiling follow-up data to support filings for the CE mark next month.
We also anticipate submission of the results to FDA after our 6-month follow-up visit mid-next year in support of our pivotal U.S.
IDE.
In stent grafts enrollment continues in our 300-patient clinical study of the FLUENCY PLUS family for the AV access in stent restenosis indication.
We're tracking to our plan of completing enrollment in the first half of 2013 and filing our clinical module with the PMA in the second half of the year with 6-month follow-up data.
We anticipate launching in 2014 upon FDA approval.
Moving to filters we're continuing to enroll in our next-generation DENALI vena cava filter clinical study.
This 200-patient study is about 75% enrolled and at our current recruitment rate we anticipate completing enrollment around the end of the year.
We'll need follow-up for 6 months prior to submissions so U.S.
launch is expected late in 2013.
Turning to urology we're making good progress toward the launch of the COMFORT GLIDE hydrophilic intermittent catheter now anticipated in Q1 of 2013.
COMFORT GLIDE will be manufactured with our new synthetic latex providing superior material properties for patient comfort without the proteins that can cause natural rubber allergies.
And in oncology and ports we're building on our recently launched PowerPort Clearview ISP family of intermediate size low artifact MRI safe implants a real mouthful.
We're on track to launch the slim version this quarter and a dual version in the first half of next year.
These ports offer the first platform to significantly reduce MR [ph] and TT [ph] imaging artifact thereby reducing the effect of port placement on the interpretation of diagnostic scans.
Moreover the patented application of materials in this port also helps to reduce the attenuation of radiation delivered therapeutically in the treatment of underlying disease.
In the imaging we're making steady progress on our Site-Rite 7 ultrasound platform scheduled for launch late in Q4 in Europe and in Q1 next year in the U.S.
And finally our Fazer freehand stereotactic system is on schedule and we anticipate a first launch in the first half of next year.
Moving to surgery.
Building on the Q2 launch of our flat sheet fully resorbable PHASIX mesh we've completed development of the PHASIX plug configuration for inguinal hernia repair.
The PHASIX platform is designed to provide the look feel and function of our standard  polypropylene-based products with equivalent strength during healing then resorb leaving the patient with no foreign material in the body after about a year.
I'm pleased to announce that we just received 510(k) clearance and we anticipate launching the PHASIX plug this quarter.
I'll wrap up our pipeline discussions with a few more details on the Neomend technology.
As Tim stated Neomend's Progel is the only product approved by the FDA as a sealant for air leaks incurred during the open resection of lung parenchyma.
Progel's a 2-component single-use sealant provided in a kit containing albumin and functionalized PEG.
The 2 components are provided in separate vials that are placed in a dual syringe to control their mixing at the point of delivery by the surgeon.
The sealants can be applied in droplets a stream or a spray that rapidly cross-links in about 10 seconds adhering to tissue to provide a strong yet very elastic seal that fully resorbs in vivo in about 30 days.
We see the Neomend technology as a broad platform we can build upon for many applications including video-assisted and robot-assisted thoracic surgery use as a sealant in both vascular and cardiac surgeries and potentially as an adhesion barrier.
Neomend has IDE approval to begin the study of Progel in video and robot-assisted thoracic surgery and we anticipate commencing enrollment in 2013.
We've also begun developing our plans for these other indications and international expansion and I look forward to providing you more details as those plans progress.
Thanks for your attention this evening.
Let me now turn you back to Tim.
Thanks John.
That does conclude the formal part of the presentation.
I'll now turn the call back to our moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Trish go ahead.
[Operator Instructions] And we have a question from the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just had one really quick clarification based on kind of [indiscernible] but has the Neomend deal actually closed and if not when is that expected to be completed? David it's Chris.
It actually did close yesterday.
So it's just hot off the press.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then maybe just looking strategically at the business.
Tim maybe you can comment too.
If you look across the revenue portfolio of the business obviously we saw continued weakness perhaps slightly worse in the United States this quarter but you continue to see strong growth in the emerging markets.
Is the right way to think about the long-term outlook for Bard from here that you're going to sort of nurture your U.S.
businesses acquire higher-growth assets in developed markets such as Lutonix and the business side [ph] that Neomend deal and then really focus your internal resources on emerging markets while managing Europe for cash.
I mean how do we think about the pieces here from a geographic perspective and then maybe also from a technology perspective? Yes sure.
I mean frankly it's even more fundamental than that.
We're looking for growth whether that be geographic or technology or product-wise and that would include the U.S.
I mean some of the growth rates that we have in our current businesses that you see in other segments of the industry there's still some significant potential there for good growth.
So we're not limiting any one thing in or out but clearly you go where the opportunity is and geographically right now that's not in the United States it's in emerging markets and from a product point of view it's kind of across the board it's nuanced in every sector.
Our next question comes from the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jon Demchick in for David.
I wanted to just discuss you guys thoughts further on M&amp;A on -- after the Neomend deal and also the previous Lutonix and Medivance deals.
Should we continue to expect these $100 million to $200 million deals that are I guess dilutive and in the relative early stage of their companies? Or is this more just as you believe that the U.S.
environment may not recover the way it maybe felt like kind of before? And do you think this is the best way that you can have to accelerate your growth going forward? Yes again this is Tim.
We're looking for growth.
And we don't target a size of a deal.
We look at it first strategically.
We look at the growth rates positioning in the market all the factors we've looked at before we haven't changed those in terms of the fundamentals.
But we don't bracket a size of deal to target.
And our next question is from the line of Larry Keusch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tim this is -- the 1% growth in the U.S.
is the first negative number in gosh 10 12 quarters.
So I guess the question is what did you see happen here in the third quarter? And then as we think about that I know you're not giving guidance on 2013 but can you just help us think about sort of the moving pieces as we sort of start to think ahead now for the next year? Sure.
I think the biggest change that we saw in the quarter was our growth rates in vascular which dropped about 4 points and that was -- in the United States that was primarily focused on slower growth in our EP business and slower growth in our biopsy business.
And the interesting part of looking at the biopsy business and you talk about utilization of healthcare in America we have a relatively large business in biopsy and core biopsy so it's not automated not vacuum assisted plain old core biopsies an awful lot of which are used in prostate biopsy.
And we saw a large step down in our growth rates in core biopsy in the United States and with no competitive issues whatsoever that's going on in that market in terms of new products or new entrants into the field.
So it's really in that chunk of the business we saw it primarily being a utilization issue for us.
But overall if you look at our -- the decrease or step down in growth rate in the United States it was limited to those areas.
And our next question is from the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions I'm still kind of struggling with the last bit there just on the step down in the particularly the U.S.
biopsy business.
So that's -- it you acquired SenoRx just 2 years ago why do you think that end market in particular would've taken such a meaningful step down? And why do you think that maybe you're seeing it in your U.S.
vascular business? The U.S.
vascular's a broad definition right because it includes biopsy you're including your EP business.
Why is it you're seeing it in that business this quarter more than you saw it in some of your other businesses? Well I think the interesting side of it is if you look at what's going on internationally in those same businesses we're seeing an increase in our growth rates and all those same segments internationally versus the growth rates in the United States.
And I think because if you look at exactly -- the comments I gave you about biopsy I mean the reality of it is there's -- nothing's changed in the market quarter-to-quarter except for that growth rate.
Now on the fringes there is a small step down in the stent business growth rate in the United States versus what we had experienced but by far the majority would've been in EP a chunk of that being capital and we're seeing capital difficult to come by in U.S.
hospitals today and then secondly on the disposable side in biopsy and then to a slight degree in stents.
Our next question is from the line of Tom Gunderson with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> It's Dan Garofalo on for Tom.
On the Lutonix drug coated balloon launch in Europe I believe you're 3 months in at this point.
Qualitatively any takeaways you can share with us relative to what your expectations were for that at this stage? Sure John DeFord here.
We're being very deliberate about the roll out.
As you know Europe is a very competitive space for drug-coated balloons there's a number of different products on the market.
We did just recently put forth our 2-year LEVANT 1 data and we think that it's important for us to get out there.
We've got a number studies going.
We're working to start a registry study in Europe as well for some broader indications and use of the product.
And so we're just taking this in a very stepwise fashion.
I'd say we're right where we expected to be at this point.
The product is performing well and we think that the real driver for Europe anyway is going to be getting a lot more data into that marketplace.
So the LEVANT 2 data as you know we finished enrollment just in July.
We think that's going to be a key driver once that becomes available next year.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Matson from Mizuho Securities USA.
Research Division</strong> Yes I was curious about your medical device tax.
I'm coming up with an estimate of around $45 million for 2013.
Number 1 does that seem reasonable? And #2 what line in your P&amp;L are you expecting to be recording that in? Mike it's Chris.
$45 million is a very good estimate $45 million is a very good estimate of what we expect to see next year.
In terms of the P&amp;L geography I'll put off that question.
We actually haven't finalized exactly where we're going to record it.
But as we do and when we do we'll certainly communicate that but we'll certainly continue to call it out and highlight it but it'll either be a separate line item or likely within SG&amp;A but we're still evaluating that.
And our next question is from the line of Matthew Dodds with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of questions.
On Neuromend [ph] Tim I think you said the revenue wasn't material have they -- has that product been out now for a couple of years? And if so what's been the reason why it hasn't gained traction if it's not material? I'd say it's Neomend and I'll let Chris handle the financial aspect of it.
Yes sure Matt it -- they got approval in 2010.
The product has been ramping very nicely terrific growth rates.
It's right now in the low $20 million range or so and growing quite nicely.
So obviously less than 1% of sales for us so not material in the grand scheme of things but the product has significant traction in the marketplace that is continuing to grow at very attractive rates.
And our next question is from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go over the fourth quarter kind of sales guidance.
Constant currency sales growth was 0 to 2%.
Obviously you have Neomend coming in even if that's -- I want to make sure I understand about 1%.
I think you stalled Medivance as well so does that basically imply I just want to double-check that the core organic business is expected to possibly be down to flat in the fourth quarter? And kind of what -- how do you see that kind of moving forward I guess? What would be some of the drivers that give you confidence that you could actually return to I guess growth looking ahead? Yes.
I think I mean obviously in Q3 that we just reported 3% constant currency growth and 200 basis points from the deal so the organic growth in Q3 was about 1%.
And as we lapped ClearStream in part of the quarter Medivance et cetera they have a pretty muted impact in Q4.
And given that we just closed Neomend that has a pretty muted impact from here to the end of the year as well.
So it actually indicates organic growth of about what we're seeing right now.
Obviously as I've said in my prepared remarks we're pretty darn cautious sitting here today and so 0% to 2% we think is an appropriate way to think about the quarter and really reflects organic growth rates comparable to what we've been seeing.
Research Division</strong> All right and then I guess just like looking ahead I mean what is your level of confidence just kind of with what you're seeing in the United States that you guys can kind of turn that business around? Or are you just more of a victim of kind of the overall hospital environment and shift from inpatient to outpatient and whatnot? Yes this is Tim.
Clearly the environment's tough.
I mean it's kind of interesting as you sit here as a company and you report in a queue of other companies you look and see what everybody else has reported and I think there's actually been a note out [ph] or so on some of the revenue downturn for the quarter.
We said at the beginning of the year we didn't expect any turnaround in the market specifically in the U.S.
for this year.
It's turned out it's actually going a little bit the other way.
I don't think we're the only one experiencing that.
As it relates to next year we'll see if the election changes anything at all.
I don't know.
Certainly nothing in the environment that we see has changed course at all.
So we'll give you guidance during our fourth quarter call but there's nothing that we've seen in the environment that would indicate it'll turnaround anytime soon.
And our next question is from the line of Matthew O'Brien with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I was just hoping to follow up a little bit on John's comment about the stent weakness.
In vascular this quarter you've got the Abbott resorbable stent coming out relatively soon [indiscernible] on the market and then SMART stent's supply issue's been resolved at this point.
How should we think about your stent business going forward? Is it an area where you can grow at or above market rates given all those headwinds? Or is it an area where we should expect a meaningful deceleration from here? No.
Our intention is to be able to grow above the market rates.
We think the data that we have on in particular on LifeStent and the broad portfolio of products that we have in LifeStent will be important to us.
We may have a hiccup there as our competitor comes back on the market in particular in Japan where we were pretty successful in taking a chunk of their business and now that they're back in the market there's a more competitive dynamic going on in Japan.
But our vantage point and our perspective is that with the solid aspects of LifeStent and the rest of our portfolio in stents that we'll be able to grow above the market rate.
Yes I would only add that the -- most of the impact wasn't exactly in the LifeStent segment of the business.
It was in the other stent segment of our business.
And our next question comes from the line of Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So 2 quick things.
First Tim obviously your stock traded at a premium to a lot of the names in med tech primarily because people are expecting that the Gore money comes through and that you're able to do some good things with that capital and flexibility and so I appreciate the update that you gave on Gore the 2 things you mentioned.
But I was wondering if you'd just give any other qualitative feedback on what's your best estimate at this point as to when you think the best case scenario would be on this money starting to flow and you being able to put actions in place? I was just wondering for any more color on the things you disclosed in this call relative to Gore any overview thoughts there? Sure.
I mean look it all depends on what happens at some of these hearings.
But certainly it looks like right now we would expect to see it sometime in '13 and hopefully in the first half of 2013.
But again a lot of these things we can't control.
So I can tell you that in terms of the planning phase of what to do with that investment that's been well underway.
We've had several internal reviews with the senior management team along with our divisions our international geographies which you would expect would be a significant portion of that and with our board.
So when the appropriate time comes we'll tell you exactly what all those things are but rest assured that it's certainly been well underway in the planning segment for a long period of time now.
Research Division</strong> And then at the Aviva [ph] meeting this year I'm curious as to whether you guys learned anything new about Gore and what they might be doing to try to either work around the patents or move manufacturing offshore.
Do you have any creative visibility and what they might be up to to try to soften the blow if you will? Yes Bob John DeFord here.
We really don't have any more insight into that nothing that we can detect at this point.
And our next question is from line of Jonathan Palmer with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Tim high-level strategic one here.
As you really continue be impacted from this softer macro environment particularly in the U.S.
could you maybe just quantify what you're doing or what leverage you have available to still get leverage in the operating margins here? Sure.
I don't want to get into a lot of detail for competitive purposes because I think the selling dynamic in the United States is undergoing some significant change and we kind of view some of the things that we've got underway as a competitive advantage for us.
So I think as we've been doing over the last several years you've seen us reallocate expense from the slower growth areas both in Europe to start with and more recently in other areas to the faster growing areas.
That's both from a product line point of view and from a geographic point of view and we'll continue to do that.
I mean you feed the beast kind of thing as it relates to what's going fast and you take it away your expenses away from the things that aren't and it's really that simple.
Yes I'd add on the other side of it the strength of our worldwide operations teams and what they're delivering quarter in and quarter out in terms of significant cost savings and leverage in our plants really is a positive competitive dynamic for us and that is you can see in our results probably in the more -- most difficult pricing environment that we've seen historically within Bard we've been able to really manage our overall gross margins extremely well.
So I think that would be the other half of the perspective that we would have.
Research Division</strong> Then maybe just as a follow-up quickly outside of the Gore opportunity is there an opportunity -- can you accelerate that investment in these emerging geographies faster than you've been doing so far? We have in our base plans as we stand here today a continued acceleration or continued investment into the emerging markets and further geographical expansion into those markets.
And I'd say we also have the ability potentially downstream if we're successful under Gore to escalate our strategic plans within those markets on a more rapid basis.
Our next question is from the line of Anthony Petrone with the Jefferies Group.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just want a clarification on Neomend.
Tim you mentioned $0.15 dilution next year.
I just want make sure that includes integration expenses and is that before any potential synergies? Yes.
That's the operating dilution and obviously we haven't completed the purchase accounting.
So we'll fine tune that number in advance of January and that is the -- that's the number that'll impact the full year.
Obviously the global expansion of the product will take a little bit of time.
Obviously there's significant clinical spend around pursuing these additional indications that John highlighted and so those will impact the business in the little bit longer time frame but up to $0.15 is the right number to think about from an operating standpoint in '13.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just one quick follow up just on looking at next year and this goes back to Lutonix you mentioned on prior calls $0.25 of annual dilution there.
I'm just wondering does that only encompass LEVANT studies for peripheral applications? Or does that also encompass the launch of a larger scale coronary study for the product? And if it does would you expect to sort of curtail that in the face of Neomend and the med tech tax? No that fully funds the programs that we're pursuing and we're certainly not going to dial back a penny of spend on Lutonix given the opportunity we see there on that platform.
And our next question is from line of Matt Taylor with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow-up on Bob's question and your comments before.
Can you go through the decision trees for the Supreme Court and for the district court in terms of what your expectations are for how those different procedures could go? And then you called out 2013 and first half so what do you think -- see is most likely track for the legal proceedings at this stage? Todd you want to take it? Go ahead.
Yes I think as we said right Gore filed their Cert on October 12 with the Supreme Court.
We would anticipate a decision from the court during January the first half of January or so vis--vis whether or not they're going to hear that appeal.
And obviously we have our view as to the likelihood of that happening.
So that's with respect to that road for the litigation.
And the other as we said we have a hearing scheduled in mid-November at the district level and I think we need to get to that hearing and get through that hearing and that'll we think provide additional clarity on how the willfulness piece of the leg will proceed.
But it's hard to be more definitive until we get through that hearing.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just one follow-up on the acquisition could you talk about the relative margins there and how you view it as the strategic focus? You call that robotic surgery and that's something that you haven't really talked much about before.
So any color there would be helpful.
I'm going to take that.
The gross margins are very attractive and certainly relative to our overall gross margin they're accretive.
I'll look to John DeFord to maybe provide a little more color on the robotic question.
Sure.
So thoracic surgery both video-assisted and robotic-assisted -- robot-assisted surgeries are certainly we think an important market and a logical expansion of the Progel technology.
So right now it's used in open surgery.
We think it's an obvious expansion into video-assisted and robot-assisted.
So those are clinical trials that we'll be starting next year.
And I think those are just the logical extensions and we talked about potential use in cardiac surgery and vascular surgery as well as the potential a little bit longer term to think about the use of the material and a lot more study to be done around using it as an adhesion barrier.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to the line of Josh Jennings with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just Tim in last quarter on the Q2 call you called out Europe as being incrementally weak and I think it was part of the reason that you guys guided down to the lower end of the annual guidance range at that point.
This quarter you seemed to have a rather solid quarter in -- or performance in Europe 5% constant currency growth a lot of med tech players have had actually done the same that you did in Q2 and called out Europe as an incremental headwind from a utilization standpoint.
Can you just talk about what's changed in Q3 and then what you have baked in to your assumptions for Q4 guidance for Europe? Well I'd say that we don't look at that as being a significant departure in the main markets in Europe.
We saw our growth rates in the main markets in Europe to be very similar to what we have on a year-to-date basis.
Although we worked hard in making investments in emerging markets in Europe including Middle East and Africa including Russia and we are starting to see the results of those investments that we've made over the last 2 years emerging in terms of incremental growth rates in those markets.
We like what we see there.
We think that'll be a positive for us as we move downstream.
And we'll open the line of Robert Goldman with CL King.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tim I'm wondering if you could give us some additional sense of the board's interest in capital allocation with respect to dividends share buybacks as well as the acquisition.
It does seem like the dividend payout for Bard and the dividend yield is becoming an outlier on the low end.
I'm hoping you could speak to that.
Sure.
We -- it's a process that we do go through almost every board meeting both within our committee structure as well as with the full board.
On a strategic level that is the first use of cash.
Growing the business investing in the business through acquisitions would be first priority share buyback second and dividend third.
We have paid a dividend Bob as you know for I think 35 36 years something like that.
Increased it every year.
It is a low yield but we're comfortable with where we are at the moment.
Yes and Bob I would just add we've been a very consistent returner of cash to shareholders and I think if you look over the last 5 years we rank very well within the sector.
So albeit less coming from dividend and more from buybacks we think that's the right approach for us to maintain the kind of flexibility we think we need to make sure we're moving the business forward strategically.
So I think given our size the current approach and the current weighting is one that we in the board believe continues to make sense.
Yes.
To that end if you go from say the beginning of 2010 through the first quarter of 2012 which is last metric I have we returned a little over 117% of free cash flow to shareholders.
And we have a follow-up from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Chris just on the EPS guidance.
I know you'd mentioned the lower end of the range.
Could you just remind us exactly what the range I guess is for the full year? Because I know you usually you talk with growth rates and does that still I guess exclude the R&amp;D tax credit? Yes.
I think -- and so if you go back to what we originally guided it was 3% to 4% growth off of the 2011 which was a $6.40 number.
So again pre -- so that's -- we're in the $6.58 to $6.59 range on the low-end and pre the Neomend dilution the full year guidance would be $6.56 to $6.60 pre-Neomend and that's reduced by $0.05 now because of the dilution from Neomend.
So at the high-end of what we're looking at now for Q4 we would be in the low-end of what the original guidance implied coming into the year and that does exclude again $0.04 to $0.05 from the R&amp;D tax credit that's not in any of our numbers that we won't really know until the very end of the year that if it did come to pass which I think a lot of people think it will that would essentially offset the impact of Q4 dilution from Neomend.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So sorry just to make sure I understood the $6.50 to $6.59 was the original guidance is that what you're saying? I'm sorry it's 3% or 4% growth off of $6.40 so the math is $6.59 to $6.65 call it.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Got you.
And then could you just walk through your gross margins? I know you mentioned that it was more from a manufacturing I guess benefit that any other the things kind of affecting gross margins on the year-to-year outside of just the incremental amortization and then manufacturing any effects benefit? It was just a little bit higher than I would would've anticipated given the performance of vascular and the surgical specialties business in the quarter? Yes.
And we certainly did try to guide towards that on the Q2 call.
There was currency favorable benefit in the quarter of about 50 basis points related to the hedge contracts which more than offset the impact on fundamental sales.
So there was 50 favorable there 70 unfavorable from the deal amort.
Mix was about 10 negative consistent with Q2 which is again really the impact primarily of the lower GP ClearStream products.
Price was 50 negative as I said and then again a terrific performance by the ops teams delivered 130 basis points of cost improvements.
So that gets you to the 50 favorable year-over-year.
And now again I'll just caution you that we anticipate some variability and probably a slight degradation sequentially in Q4 in the margin.
And our final question for the day comes from the line of Joanne Wuensch with BMO Capital Markets.
The 2% acquisition growth that you have in the quarter is there a way to divide that between U.S.
and o U.S.? We're going through the numbers here trying to pull it out.
We aggregated here.
Okay.
Can I ask a question while you're doing that? Sure.
Incontinence it was flat in the quarter after 10 quarters of decline.
Is there anything that we can assume that that's starting the beginning of a new trend? I mean that's quite nice.
Sure.
Incontinence was starting a turnaround really on the launch of the DIGNISHIELD product.
DIGNISHIELD and the ramp up of DIGNISHIELD and the fact that now Contigen the loss of Contigen is out of the base which would give us -- had given us an unfavorable comps for quite a while.
Okay.
And then similarly hernia repair was down double-digit.
Anything in particular there that we try to understand? Hernia -- I don't understand your question about hernia repairs being down double digit.
Fixation.
Fixation was down 19% which is very consistent with where we've been the last number of quarters Joanne.
And on the first question? Yes it's 2% in the U.S.
and I think just a little bit less than that x US but we'll follow up and confirm that number.
And at this time there are no additional questions.
That does conclude our Q&amp;A session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Bard's management for closing and additional comments.
Thanks very much.
I'd like to thank all of you for taking the time to join us today for the call and also to thank the Bard employees around the world as I always do for their commitment to excellence and we will talk to you again in the next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the C.
R.
Bard Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; and Christopher S.
Holland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Also in attendance today are John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs; and Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which are based on management's current expectations including multiyear projections of revenue earnings per share and other financial measures which include certain assumptions regarding the timing of financial resolution of Bard's patent infringement suit against Gore.
The accuracy of these statements are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
These statements are not historical in nature and use words such as anticipate estimate expect project intend forecast plan believes and other words of similar meaning.
Many factors may cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results including product development; sales efforts; income tax matters; the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings including with respect to the Gore matters; share repurchases; acquisitions; and other economic business competitive and regulatory factors.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information in Bard's September 30 2012 10-Q and the information under the caption Risk Factors in the company's 2011 10-K including disclosure of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provides an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance of the company and its individual product categories.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures with respect to the company's historical financial results are provided in Bard's earnings press release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of January 31 2013 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information.
Unless otherwise noted all comparisons are to the prior-year period.
At this time I will turn the call over to Mr.
Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Welcome to Bard's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
I'd like to thank all of you for taking the time to join us today.
As we told you back in October going forward we will also provide our annual financial guidance in conjunction with this call each year.
I would expect the presentation portion of the call to last about 40 minutes.
The agenda today will go as follows: I'll begin with an overview of the results for the fourth quarter.
John Weiland our President and COO will review fourth quarter product line revenue.
John DeFord our Senior VP Science Technology and Clinical Affairs will give you an update on our product development pipeline.
And Chris Holland our Senior VP and CFO will review the fourth quarter income statement and balance sheet and provide a multiyear look at our financial expectations and some insight into our investment strategy going forward.
And then finally we'll close with Q&amp;A.
Looking at the fourth quarter net sales totaled $762.6 million that's up 1% over Q4 last year on an as-reported basis and up 2% on a constant-currency basis.
The currency impact for the quarter versus 2011 Q4 was unfavorable by about 60 basis points.
The impact of acquisitions contributed approximately 1 percentage point of growth for the quarter.
Net sales for the full year 2012 were $2.958 billion that's up 2% as reported and 3% on a constant-currency basis.
Net income for the fourth quarter was $128.2 million diluted earnings per share were $1.52.
We did take a restructuring charge of $19 million as we continue to rationalize our resources towards markets with faster growth opportunities.
Excluding this and other items that affected the comparability results between periods which Chris will cover later Q4 2012 net income and diluted earnings per share were $143.9 million and $1.70 down 3% and flat respectively.
Full year 2012 net income was $530.1 million and diluted earnings per share were $6.16.
Excluding items again that affect comparability between periods full year 2012 net income was $565.3 million and diluted earnings per share were $6.57 down 1% and 3% respectively over 2011.
Looking at Q4 revenue growth geographically compared to the prior year on a constant-currency basis net sales in the U.S.
declined 1%.
And internationally we grew 8% with Europe up 3% and Japan up 5%.
The revenues from our emerging markets grew 33% over the prior-year period and now represents 7% of our total revenue in Q4.
Our teams in these markets continue to execute very well.
We've established a strong foundation over the past few years and we continue to build our infrastructure and increase penetration in this rapidly expanding markets.
On the business development front as we discussed in our third quarter call during the fourth quarter we acquired Neomend in the surgical sealant space.
We also closed a couple of small technology deals that will improve our portfolio in the inguinal hernia space.
Looking back on 2012 the reduced growth rates in the U.S.
caused us to come in slightly below our original revenue guidance for the year.
Despite that and absorbing the additional dilution from the Neomend acquisition we were still able to meet our adjusted EPS guidance for the year albeit on the low end of the range.
Keeping our commitments to shareholders is very important to us always has been.
While the pressures of slow growth challenge med tech in the near term making the right decisions today to put you in the right position tomorrow will be critical.
The potential Gore award would provide us significant resources for investment and I can tell you that we are in investment mode.
While our current growth profile is not sufficient to achieve the objectives we have for ourselves we think we have the opportunity today to change the game to our benefit for many years to come.
This isn't the first time this team has ventured to change the trajectory of the business.
Ten years ago because of the success of our consolidation in manufacturing we found ourselves with investment choices to make.
We pulled certain levers based on the opportunities at that time and set the business on a very positive path.
Today the environment is different than it was then but I would suggest that the levers available to us today may be even more substantial than they were back then.
The emerging market lever was not like it is today.
The patient demographics were not nearly as favorable for us then as they are today.
And back then there was no potential influx of cash coming from a patent award.
In fact we were just starting our claim against Gore at that point.
What hasn't changed is the importance of innovation.
Today innovation's required to provide clinically effective outcomes with a heavier weighting toward economic value that addresses the need of a global health care system under enormous cost pressure.
So while price may get you in the game it doesn't win the game by itself.
We continue to believe that companies that can develop clinically effective products with high quality at a cost that benefits the global system will be rewarded with significant volumes.
I can tell you our organization is strong and has the capacity to do more.
We've built a solid engine in emerging markets and are ready for more fuel.
Our manufacturing capabilities and efficiencies have never been better.
Our internal clinical function was just in its infancy 10 years ago as we relied almost entirely on outside experts.
Today it's the core competency for us well suited for these times and you'll hear more details on this from John DeFord in a few minutes.
We've dramatically improved our quality processes over the years.
Quality was already a good strength of ours 10 years ago and we believe it's even more so today.
Our global regulatory teams position us well to take advantage of the opportunities in front of us.
And our ability to identify execute and integrate acquisitions is better than it's ever been with seasoned teams across the entire organization and businesses.
In fact when we look at the leverage we have today the size of the opportunities and our ability to execute we're very excited about the future.
We have decided that now is the time to significantly invest to change the growth trajectory of the business and we believe we've got the financial flexibility to do it in a manner very attractive to shareholders.
Chris will give you more details when he lays out our financial guidance.
I can tell you that we measure success here over the long term and we're very excited about our plan and we're confident in our ability to execute.
With that let me turn you over to John Weiland for a review of our fourth quarter product line revenue.
Good afternoon everyone and before I start as usual I'll be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to prior-year period on a constant-currency basis unless otherwise noted.
So let's start with vascular.
Total net sales in this category for the quarter were $212 million a decrease of 2% in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our U.S.
business was down 6% for the quarter while internationally we grew 2%.
Electrophysiology sales were down 2% this quarter as the EP disposables were down 4% and our EP Lab systems were up 1%.
Sales in our vascular graft category were up 4% in the fourth quarter better than recent trends due to large OEM orders.
Our endovascular business decreased 3% in the fourth quarter.
And within endovascular our biopsy line was up 1% continuing the level trajectory we've seen throughout 2012.
Our peripheral PTA products were up 1% this quarter as we anniversaried the ClearStream acquisition earlier in the quarter.
Sales in our vena cava filter line were down 12% in the fourth quarter.
The sales dollars have been essentially flat over the last 4 quarters with the step down in Q1 of 2012 so Q4 '11 was a relatively tough comp.
Our stent business was down 9% in Q4.
The biggest driver of the decline in the quarter was from our covered stent product line.
And based on the IMS data through Q3 our share has stayed consistent.
So it appears that at this point that the market volumes were depressed in Q4.
We're not aware of any competitive catalyst here and we'll let you know if we have any more information but as well the comps were difficult also.
LifeStent was down 2% in the quarter.
LifeStent volumes have held up well with several competitors coming on label in the SFA this year.
But we did see some price erosion in the United States.
Let's move to urology.
Total net sales were $195.8 million which is up 3% versus Q4 of last year on both a constant-currency and as-reported basis.
The United States business was down 2% while internationally we were up 14% driven by 92% growth in the emerging markets.
The targeted temperature management products acquired in mid-November 2011 grew over 10% sequentially from the third quarter to the fourth quarter.
Our basic drainage business was up 3% in Q4 driven by another strong quarter in Japan and 70% growth in emerging markets.
The United States business was down 1%.
I.C.
Foleys were down 5% globally with the United States down 9%.
The market forces in the United States continue to work against us here.
Our continence business which at this point represents less than 10% of total urology sales was down 5% in the fourth quarter.
Sales in urological specialties were down 1% with brachytherapy down 18% for the quarter due to fewer prostate screenings as we discussed last quarter.
And finally our StatLock catheter stabilization line was down 5% this quarter.
Now for oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $210 million an increase of 5% over Q4 last year on both a constant-currency and as-reported basis.
Net sales in the United States were up 2% while outside the United States sales were up 13%.
Our port line was up 2% versus Q4 last year consistent with recent trends.
PICC revenue growth was 6% in the fourth quarter with 43% growth in emerging markets.
PICCs are our largest single product line in emerging markets and we think they also represent a significant opportunity for us going forward.
We're just getting started developing these markets and we have a long way to go.
Related to our Sherlock 3CG Tip Confirmation technology a couple of quarters ago we told you that about 50% of the converted customers have already eliminated X-ray as part of their protocol.
That number is now 70% and growing representing approximately $29 million in potential savings in the health care system.
The adoption of this technology continues at a rapid rate and we don't see any slowing of our momentum.
Our Vascular Access ultrasound product line was up 8% this quarter.
We are pleased with our growing presence in this market as the installed base of these systems is an important factor in our ability to help expand the placement of PICCs by nurses at the bedside.
And to complete the results in oncology our dialysis catheter business was up 5% in Q4.
So now we'll finish with the surgical specialties.
Net sales in this category were $121.3 million in the fourth quarter up 4% on both an as-reported and a constant-currency basis.
United States sales increased 4% while international sales were up 6%.
400 basis points of the global growth came from sales from the surgical sealant products acquired during the quarter.
Our soft tissue repair business grew 1% overall for the quarter.
Our total synthetic hernia products were up 6% versus Q4 last year with our synthetic ventral products growing 9% this quarter.
Our natural tissue products continue to experience market pressures declining 10% in Q4.
While our allograft product continues to see growth in the breast application we're seeing a preference for porcine products in hernia applications.
Our fixation business was down 9% in Q4 after 5 straight quarters of double-digit declines.
Closing out the surgical category our Performance Irrigation business was down 7% in Q4.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to John DeFord.
Thanks John and good afternoon.
I'll try to wrap up the 2012 portfolio today with a brief update on our clinical trials the projects we've been tracking in the pipeline and rollout a few new projects for 2013.
In 2012 we started the year with 53 active clinical trials.
To give you some historical perspective in 2004 we had just 4 and 5 years ago we were at 15.
In 2013 we expect to have close to 90 studies demonstrating our increased investment capacity and shift toward greater clinical and economic evidence surrounding our products.
In 2012 we launched about 40 organic new products along with a handful of products we acquired over the course of the year.
Here's an update on a few projects in the pipeline starting with the ENCOMPASS atrial fibrillation ablation technology.
We completed enrollment in the feasibility study in the back half of 2012 and we'll follow these patients for 1 year.
We're compiling follow-up data to support our anticipated filing for the CE mark this summer.
We also anticipate submission of the results to FDA after our 6-month follow-up visit later in the year in support of our pivotal U.S.
IDE.
Moving to stent grafts we've reached our enrollment target in the clinical study of the FLUENCY PLUS family for the AV access in-stent restenosis indication.
We'll follow these patients for 6 months and plan to submit a clinical module of this PMA within Q4 of this year and launch upon approval expected in the back half of 2014.
In breast biopsy we anticipate launching in this quarter our new implanted breast tissue marker the SenoMark Ultra.
This new marker has a flexible applicator designed for deployment with all vacuum-assisted biopsy systems.
It's designed to minimize migration and its material composition supports permanent clear visualization under ultrasound MR or X-ray imaging.
In filters we also recently completed enrollment and the bulk of our follow-up in our next-generation Denali Vena Cava Filter clinical study.
There are 2 arms to this study 1 following patients with permanent implants and 1 following patients with retrieved devices.
We anticipate completing the required follow-up and submitting the 510(k) with clinical data around the end of the quarter.
Launch will depend upon FDA concurrence which we think will happen toward the end of the year.
Turning to urology we're completing the 510(k) testing and anticipate submitting for U.S.
concurrence for the COMFORT GLIDE hydrophilic intermittent catheter later this quarter with launch anticipated around midyear.
The COMFORT GLIDE incorporates our new synthetic latex material providing superior material properties for patient comfort without the proteins natural rubber contains that can cause allergic reactions.
Moving to oncology in ports we're beginning the launch of our new PowerPort Clearview Slim family of low artifact MRI-safe implants.
We're also on track to complete a dual version anticipated to launch around midyear.
These ports build upon our 2012 launch of the Clearview platform that offers significantly reduced MR and CT imaging artifact thereby reducing the effect of port placement on the interpretation of diagnostic scans and also helps to reduce the attenuation of radiation delivered therapeutically in the treatment of underlying disease.
In imaging we anticipate the launch of the new Site-Rite 7 ultrasound platform in Q3 in both Europe and the U.S.
Moving to surgery.
We're in the early rollout of our new resorbable Phasix Plug configuration for inguinal hernia repair.
This design builds upon our recently launched Phasix flat sheet platform and is designed to provide the look feel and function of our standard polypropylene-based products with equivalent strength during healing and then resorb leaving the patient with no foreign material in the body after about a year.
We also continue to build on our award-winning eco-mesh placement system.
We recently completed a study that reinforced the economic benefits of accuracy time savings and improved OR efficiency for this product and we have additional product enhancements planned for the second half of the year.
I know we've gone through this pretty quickly but before I turn you over to Chris I'd like to extend to you an invitation to our Annual Analyst Meeting where we'll review our new product pipeline in further detail.
The meeting will be at the New York Palace Hotel on June 3 beginning at 4:30 p.m.
For those that can't attend in person the meeting will be available by webcast.
Now let me turn you over to Chris.
Thanks John.
Let me start by covering the items that affect the comparability of our results between periods.
As Tim mentioned we took a restructuring charge of $19 million pretax in the fourth quarter.
We also had acquisition-related items of $3.1 million related primarily to the deals closed in Q4.
These items are detailed in the notes to the financial statements and the reconciliation accompanying our Q4 earnings press release.
Now let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $475 million in Q4 and $475.1 million on an adjusted basis or 62.3% of sales down only 20 basis points from the prior year despite new amortization of 50 basis points.
Year-over-year price comparisons stayed fairly consistent with the recent trend coming in at 130 basis points of headwind on the revenue line and about 50 basis points in GP this quarter.
For the full year that brings adjusted gross profit as a percentage of sales to 62% even down only 10 basis points from 2011 despite about 70 basis points from new amortization and 50 basis points of price headwinds.
This exceeded the top end of our original annual guidance despite lower volumes and more difficult headwinds than we had expected.
Our operations team had a stellar performance this year driving 80 basis points of improvement to GP.
The efficiency and quality of our manufacturing organization has really become a strong core competency for us and we expect that to continue.
SG&amp;A expenses were $213 million for the quarter or 27.9% of sales.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A was $212.2 million or 27.8% of sales 20 basis points below the prior-year period which is a considerable achievement with 90 basis points added from recent acquisitions and 40 basis points added from incremental investments in emerging markets.
So we saw approximately 150 basis points of benefit from our restructuring activities as well as our across-the-board expense control.
For the full year of 2012 that brings adjusted SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales to 27.6% an increase of 40 basis points over the prior year slightly better than our original annual guidance.
We continue to shift SG&amp;A infrastructure from slower growing markets to faster growing markets and we have a disciplined process of rationalizing our resources based on the growth opportunities in front of us.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $52.7 million for the fourth quarter or 6.9% of sales.
On an adjusted basis R&amp;D expense was $50.8 million or 6.7% of sales an increase of 90 basis points over the prior-year period representing the increased investment from our acquired technology platforms of Lutonix Medivance and Neomend.
Interest expense was $10.7 million for the fourth quarter as our debt increased in Q4 related to our bond offering completed in late October.
Other income and expense was $21.3 million of expense for the fourth quarter.
On an adjusted basis it was $2 million of expense driven mainly by foreign exchange.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 27.7%.
On an adjusted basis it was 27.8% which took us to 27.7% on a full-year adjusted basis.
All-in then EPS totaled $1.70 for Q4 excluding items affecting comparability bringing us to a 3% EPS growth rate for the full year on a same basis which is within our original annual guidance once again despite the pressure on the sales line and the absorption of the Neomend dilution.
We repurchased roughly 941 000 shares of the company stock in Q4.
The balance sheet as of December 31 2012 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of $921.3 million versus $836.6 million at September 30.
For the full year our AR days were down 1.7 days and inventory days were up 0.4 days driven by currency.
Capital expenditures totaled $17.1 million for the quarter and $72.6 million for the year.
On the liability side with the addition of the bond offering total debt was $1.410 billion as of December 31 versus $1.293 billion at September 30.
Debt to total capital at the end of the fourth quarter was about 42% and total shareholder investment was $1.926 billion at December 31 2012.
So with 2012 now in the books let's turn to financial guidance.
We're in the process of posting slides in a PDF onto the front page of our Investor Relations section of our website that should help you follow along with my comments.
For those of you who are connected to this call through our website you can also find the slides in the Downloads tab which is at the top of the webcast player.
As Tim said our current growth profile is not sufficient to achieve the objectives we have for ourselves and we don't have any expectation that our more developed markets will materially rebound on their own anytime soon.
That said we are executing a strategy to return to faster growth that we're ready to share with you today.
We have significant opportunity in front of us and we know what to do and we know how to do it.
We also find ourselves in an unprecedented position with the potential billion dollars expected to come our way through the resolution of the Gore matter.
Starting with the bottoms-up process that identified well over 100 strategic investment opportunities we've spent the better part of the last year selecting and validating the projects that we believe will enable us to return to above-market top and bottom line growth.
And we've already begun executing this multiyear investment plan.
This detailed and thorough plan includes over 40 discrete projects that we believe the market will embrace and that we can execute.
Part of the selection process included us taking a careful look at the capacity of the organization and what we can productively do simultaneously.
Our decentralized structure allows us to execute on multiple fronts at the same time.
And the plan includes using existing external partners to help us accelerate the impact of these programs as early as possible.
As you can appreciate for competitive reasons we won't be discussing specific programs and initiatives but each program has been risk-adjusted for technical regulatory and commercial considerations and we are confident in our plan to deliver the returns and time lines that we've included in our guidance today.
For those of you who are looking at the presentation slides on our website I'm now moving to Slide #4.
Our focus and how we will measure success is sustained above-market long-term growth and profitability.
Because this is a multiyear plan we will give you a multiyear look at financial guidance.
Our total 2013 investment equates to roughly half of the estimated annual royalty from Gore.
But because we don't expect to recognize royalty revenue until later this year calendar year 2013 for us becomes very much a transition year as we are in investment mode.
The first full year of benefit from the Gore royalties is then clearly evident in 2014.
In 2015 we expect the results of this plan in addition to the anticipated Lutonix drug-coated balloon launch in the U.S.
to help us once again enjoy 200 to 300 basis points of revenue growth above the market along with double-digit adjusted EPS growth on a sustainable basis.
Now let's take a closer look at our plan on Slide 5.
The investments fall into 3 major categories.
First accelerating our expansion into faster growing geographies where we've built a strong foundation and we've demonstrated the ability to execute.
Secondly dramatically increasing our investment in R&amp;D mostly focused on new market categories but also strengthening our current portfolio.
And lastly acquiring growth platforms designed to change the mix of the portfolio towards faster sustainable long-term growth.
Consistent with our historical use of cash flow and with our communicated intended use of the projected Gore proceeds we plan to return approximately half of the initial after-tax accretion from the award to shareholders.
At this time it's not our intention to engage in accelerated share repurchase program but we do intend to actively use approximately half of the after-tax cash bolus to buy back shares in the near term once the cash is received.
We expect to deploy the balance of the cash over time as opportunities present for strategic acquisitions or for additional share buybacks.
The priority is strategic use in order to drive sustained faster revenue growth.
We want to be very clear on what is included in our assumptions on the timing and amounts of the Gore proceeds.
This is laid out on Slides 6 and 7.
As you know the U.S.
Supreme Court denied Gore's petition for cert on the infringement part of the case.
Through December 31 2012 that portion of the judgment amount is approximately $785 million and the quarterly royalty rate has recently been between approximately $33 million and $36 million per quarter.
While the patent is valid through August 2019 the value of future royalty streams may be more or less than recent experience depending on Gore's future sales volume of infringing products.
We have filed briefs with the U.S.
District Court in Arizona requesting the immediate release of those funds related to infringement.
As far as the timing of the release of funds we don't know how quickly the district judge will rule on the matter and we would expect Gore to appeal any decision in our favor and seek a stay of any release of funds.
We can't be certain how long these proceedings will take but we believe it's reasonable at this juncture to include 6 months of royalties in our P&amp;L for 2013 and to assume that our share repurchase activity would increase starting in Q3 of 2013.
We recognize that the receipt of funds could be sooner or later but we believe this is a reasonable assumption for our model.
Now it's important for you to understand the accounting for these royalty payments once the infringement award is released to us.
Because we can't know what the quarterly royalty will be until Gore pays it to us following the completion of each calendar quarter we would record the payments on a cash basis in the month they are received.
The court requires payment within 30 days after the end of each quarter.
So to recognize 2 quarterly payments in 2013 we would need to have the release of funds before the second quarter payment is made in late July.
Also we need to make it clear that at this point we have not included in our model any of the $206 million related to willfulness.
We like our case on this issue and we plan to pursue this money aggressively.
But for purposes of today's financial guidance that money is not included.
We have filed our written briefs with the court on this issue and we await the district judge's decision on how and when the willfulness part of the case will move forward.
And finally as far as the numbers go we are assuming that 2014 would be the first full year of royalty revenue with the amount expected to be between $130 million and $140 million.
As we said the amount of royalty in subsequent years is difficult to predict.
Our current plan is to invest roughly half of the royalty benefit over the first several years in programs that we believe will drive incremental revenue growth over subsequent years that should more than offset any potential reduction in future royalty payments.
Now moving to Slide 8 let's look at the mix of investments and what kind of returns we expect.
About 40% of the planned investment relates to sales and marketing initiatives largely focused on emerging markets.
Over the last few years we've invested significantly in these markets and our teams have executed above our expectations.
We are confident now that we can accelerate that growth on the strong foundation that we have built.
The projects are slated to add approximately 300 physicians in emerging markets in 2013.
These investments are designed to accelerate penetration of international emerging markets with infrastructure and product lines that we believe can win and sustain significant growth.
These investments have an average estimated ROI of well over 100% with average expected payback in less than 2 years.
We've demonstrated the ability to execute here and we have a lot of room in front of us in these markets.
For example John Weiland talked about our success with PICCs here yet we're still just at the very beginning.
We see the opportunity to pull forward investments to accelerate our market development efforts.
In the aggregate the returns from these projects will fund more investments in the future.
Bottom line we're moving quickly to aggressively shift the mix of our portfolio to faster growing geographies.
The R&amp;D and clinical projects represent about 60% of the planned investment pool.
The returns from these projects as with the geographic investments we just discussed have all been risk-adjusted for technical regulatory and commercial considerations.
While our teams are focused on driving higher returns than we are communicating externally we feel comfortable telling you that these investments have an average estimated ROI of over 50% and an expected average payback between 2 and 3 years.
As Slide 9 depicts the majority of these investments are related to new product entry into new market categories that we are not in today including the studies to support those products.
This would include our existing technology that can be applied to new areas we're not currently in.
We're going to hold back further details at this point for obvious competitive reasons.
About 1/4 of the R&amp;D investment will go to enhancing our core product portfolios that we have today.
In recent years we've invested heavily in improving our clinical capacity as John DeFord just outlined for you and bolstering our regulatory and quality processes for new product development.
We've also bought some new platforms that have come with significant R&amp;D clinical efforts.
But these additional investments have diverted resources from our internal organic R&amp;D efforts.
At the same time the hurdles have gotten higher at the FDA and getting new products into hospitals has become more difficult.
So we've identified specific areas where we believe that an infusion of investment into our core platforms should improve our competitive profile and help us maintain and improve our leadership position into the future.
For example we're accelerating a number of programs in our pipeline such as a new angioplasty platform and a more rapid expansion of some of our new hernia mesh technologies.
After new product entries and increasing our investment in core R&amp;D we plan to focus the remainder of the R&amp;D portion of the investment on enhancing our clinical and economic evidence for existing devices and expanding international registrations at a faster pace.
For example we intend to accelerate the studies in the targeted temperature management space to expand indications sooner and to provide additional effectiveness data.
So if you're following the slides Page 10 lays out how our strategy and plans translate into our financial guidance.
All of this includes our assumptions on Gore and excludes the impact of the other items that affects comparability.
For revenue we see 2013 constant currency growth between 2% and 5%.
That includes between $60 million and $70 million coming from Gore royalties recognized in the second half of the year.
That number could be higher or lower but the timing of the receipt of the cash does not affect our investment plan for 2013.
As far as constant currency revenue growth goes in our 4 disease state categories in 2013 we expect vascular revenue growth to be between minus 2% and positive 1% excluding any benefit from the Gore royalties.
The first part of the year in particular we'll be up against difficult comps as we benefited from a competitor stent quality issue in the first half of 2012.
In urology we expect revenue growth to be between minus 1% and positive 2% as the relative weight of the legacy products at flattish growth overshadows the benefit we're seeing from the anniversaried targeted temperature management products.
We expect our oncology business to grow between 2% and 5% constant currency in 2013.
This business has held up the best for us in this difficult environment and PICCs specifically represent perhaps our largest single product opportunity in international markets in the near term.
And finally we expect our surgical specialties business to grow between 4% and 7% which includes the benefit of our surgical sealants products from the recent Neomend acquisition.
Moving to 2014 we expect to have a full calendar year of royalty revenue from Gore and we expect revenue growth in the mid-single digits overall.
In 2015 we expect to launch our Lutonix drug-coated balloon in the U.S.
and our investments start returning in a manner that we believe will allow us to grow revenue between 200 and 300 basis points above the underlying market growth.
That far out it's a bit difficult to project a specific number but a key measure of success will be 200 to 300 basis points of sustainable growth above the market.
We expect our gross margin percent in 2013 to improve between 0 and 30 basis points over our 2012 level including between 70 and 90 basis points of improvement due to the estimated royalty and 50 basis points of favorability from our underlying cost improvements.
Price is estimated to be between 40 and 50 basis points of headwind and 20 basis points of headwind is coming from amortization of deals closed in the last 12 months.
We estimate FX to be approximately 50 basis points of headwind and we expect mix to be about neutral.
Going forward we expect continued organic improvements in our underlying GP.
While changes in the royalty and factors like price FX and amortization will impact the total number we expect our underlying cost engine and mix to continue to improve.
We expect SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales to step up between 140 and 160 basis points in 2013.
130 basis points is due to the full year impact of the new medical device excise tax which we project to be approximately $40 million for us.
The remainder represents the investments we're making in faster-growing markets partly offset by leverage in slower-growing geographies.
Going forward excluding any impact from future acquisitions we would expect SG&amp;A to moderate downward as a percentage of sales consistent with our historical pattern.
We expect R&amp;D for 2013 and 2014 to be above 8% as a percentage of sales and we expect the returns from these incremental projects to help sustain an increased investment going forward.
From an operating margin perspective 2013 will see a step down due to the medical device excise tax and our planned investment spending.
But we project that by 2015 our operating margin will be at or above the 2012 level and on a trajectory of improvement.
We expect interest expense in 2013 to be approximately $45 million the increase due to the bond offering in October.
We expect the effective tax rate to improve by 100 to 120 basis points in 2013 including the R&amp;D tax credit and we think that tax rates should continue to decline in 2014 and 2015 as our mix of profit outside the U.S.
increases.
That all adds up to adjusted earnings per share in 2013 between $6.25 and $6.30 including our assumption of Gore royalties but excluding any other items that affect comparability.
Again if the royalty comes in sooner we'll do better.
If it comes in later we'll do worse.
The spending plan remains unchanged so you can do the math on the drop-through of the revenue pretty easily.
That timing also affects the quarter in which we start to buy back incremental shares with the Gore proceeds so share count would also be impacted in either direction.
Due to the timing of our investments and the difficult comps faced by certain businesses including fewer selling days in the U.S.
and Europe we're forecasting Q1 2013 with adjusted EPS between $1.40 and $1.44 per share on flattish sales growth and a step down in our GP due to timing issues.
For 2014 we expected adjusted EPS growth to be between 22% and 25% which assumes a full year of royalty revenue from Gore.
In 2015 we expect the returns from our investment plan together with the anticipated U.S.
launch of the Lutonix drug-coated balloon to drive sustainable double-digit adjusted EPS growth.
Our investment plan also comes with a slight uptick in capital expenditures in 2013 which we expect to total between $85 million and $95 million.
And we expect operating cash flow to be in the $600 million range in 2013 exclusive of any proceeds from Gore bolus or royalty.
So thanks for bearing with me through that long commentary.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Tim.
Thanks Chris.
So having said that while 2013 is a transition year for us we believe that the investment plan we're executing today will move us back to delivering above-market top and bottom line growth on a sustainable basis.
We measure success over the long term here and we're very excited about the future.
That does conclude the formal part of the presentation.
Let me now turn you back to the moderator to facilitate Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And we have a question from Michael Matson with Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> I guess this is a lot of information to absorb here.
I guess my first question would just be with regard to the emerging markets.
What areas are you most focused in in terms of investing in which countries which products et cetera? And where do you think you can take that as a percentage of your overall sales by say the 2015 time frame? Well we -- the emerging markets for us fundamentally would exclude everything except U.S.
Europe Japan Canada and Australia.
That's pretty much what we throw in there.
Our focus has been China we've talked a lot about that.
We've made a lot of investment in Brazil and a few other countries in Latin America.
The Eastern European markets are starting to -- we're investing more there.
The other Asian markets we're investing heavily there so we've been doing well there.
We're kind of doubling down there.
When you look at the execution aspect of it we've done a very good job.
It's really a fairly fundamental business model in the sense that you get the products registered you get -- you hire employees very good employees it's critical in that part of the world retention is key and then training both the employees and then the clinical community on the technologies.
It's really that fundamental and we're very focused on that.
It's 7% of total revenue growth as of the end of fourth quarter.
We mentioned the increase in heads which is more than 50% from where we are so kind of that summarizes that at the top line.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with regard to the R&amp;D expansion and the new product entry how far astray from the current markets that you're in are you willing to go? And would it be possible that we'd see you at a fourth -- or sorry a fifth business segment? Or would it really just be more incremental to the existing segments that you're already in? Michael John DeFord here.
Look we don't rule anything out.
Obviously getting into an entirely new segment with a say new leg to the stool would probably require more than just internal R&amp;D to be effective with our strategic intent of product leadership.
That said we think we've got some really exciting technologies that we can leverage and also some very near adjacencies and some that are -- where we have some degree of leverage or synergy that we could go after.
So we think that these are very executable kind of areas that aren't cannibalizing our existing products and give us a new footprint and a broader footprint within our existing businesses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my final question is just around the clinical trials.
I think you said that you're going to go from 53 clinical trials this year to 90 in 2013.
So I guess I'm just wondering kind of what the breakdown there is between trials that are being done more for marketing purposes and then trials that are being done for regulatory reasons to get product on a particular market somewhere? Well so I would characterize these -- and what I said was we started 2012 with 53.
Over the course of the year we added.
So it's not like we're going from 53 and suddenly flipping the switch and having 90.
We've been building that up over the course of the year.
And I'd say that we are -- we've got about 40% of our studies are for either new indications or regulatory approvals and then we have certainly a significant number of our studies in that sort of 50% 60% range that are providing additional marketing data and economic data that we think is important.
And so I think that would be a reasonable way to kind of break this out.
Our next question is from the line of Joanne Wuensch with BMO Capital Markets.
I'm sorry I'm still absorbing all these information but let me just sort of get big picture in here.
When you laid all of these out and clearly you had more than enough time to think about how to spend your money how did you think about each one of the divisions the vascular versus urology versus surgical and oncology? Sure.
I'll take that.
We start with growth.
We want to grow the business at a faster rate than we are today so we look really where the best opportunities are.
And when you look at for example the SG&amp;A shift that we've alluded to a couple of times during the presentation we're transitioning to faster-growing market segments geographically and we're going to do the same product-wise.
So that was really the primary factor that we used along with other things like sustainability of the growth.
We don't want something that spikes for a year and is not sustainable over time.
So we factored that in as well but growth and faster growth was really the primary thing that we looked at.
Right.
And Joanne just to add another note to that.
As Tim said we didn't try to apportion to each division a certain number.
We looked at all the opportunities and as Chris said there were over 100 of them that we looked at and selected what we thought were the best ones that were executable and within our capabilities that we could bring to bear as quickly as possible.
And with a focus on returns right? So obviously the ROI is an important factor as well.
And then my follow-up is unless I missed it somewhere in here in terms of redeployment of capital I didn't hear you say things like changing your dividend policy.
I did hear you say you weren't going to do on ASR but I'm not sure what exactly your plans are for share repurchases? Yes so with respect to the Gore bolus what we have said is that we would return in short order not through an ASR but in short order through the open market half of the after-tax proceeds of the bolus once we receive it which we've currently said we are assuming is in Q3 of 2013.
At this point we would plan on retaining the other half of the after-tax bolus proceeds to invest in strategic opportunities acquisitions and/or additional buybacks depending on our acquisition opportunities.
The ordinary course level of repurchase activity you would anticipate us to continue to plan on doing but always subject to the first priority of our free cash flow being investments that grow the business including acquisitions.
And dividends? No change at this point.
And we have a question from Matt Taylor with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess I just wanted to ask about timing.
I mean obviously you've got more visibility now that you've had a Supreme Court ruling.
And was just curious in terms of your estimate how much variability could there be around the timing of the initial bolus how much visibility do you really have into that? And then also were you just waiting for that Supreme Court ruling issuance to really jump start some of this stuff? Yes I think Matt obviously we've been working on an investment plan for many months as you can imagine.
And we've arrived at one which we think is the right one for the company.
Obviously the denial of cert was an important milestone in our mind in terms of the certainty of proceeds.
So that certainly was a factor as we moved into '13 and began executing this plan.
But as we said I think -- we take advice from lots of lawyers who know a lot more about this than we do.
And sitting here today as we've said we believe a Q3 estimation of the release of the funds is a reasonable estimate.
It could move earlier it could move later.
But factoring everything we know in at this point in time we think that's a reasonable estimate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I just wanted to ask one follow-up.
I guess on the buyback.
I'm a little unclear because you're talking about the initial bolus using half of that for the buyback but not doing an ASR.
So are you just going to be kind of out there in the market buying things as you see fit with regular market conditions? What's the plan assuming that you do receive the bolus in the third quarter? Yes we would plan again I think given the volume levels we think we can effectively execute repurchases within the market in fairly short order in Q3 with half the after-tax proceeds.
And we have a question from Dave Turkaly with JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just on the acquisitions that you've already brought in can you give us I mean any specifics I know you gave by kind of category what the growth would look like.
Anything in additional that you could say either in dollar magnitude for either Neomend or Medivance? Well we said that Medivance grew 10% over the third quarter of 2012 and we were pleased with seeing that progressive growth.
On Neomend it's our first quarter in terms of integration of the business.
We're delighted where we're at.
We just finished our kickoff sales meetings for the year where the Neomend team really -- the integration of that group culturally with Bard has gone as well as anything that we've ever seen and I'd say the integration from an operational standpoint has gone as well as we have ever seen.
We like the potential for new indications on the Neomend product.
And as we said that is some of our investment modes that we're doing with the investment program that we talked about getting different and newer indications for the Neomend product lines and other areas outside of their open indication which we have today.
In Lutonix I think we're delighted where we are.
We completed enrollment in trial.
John DeFord took us through where we're at on Lutonix.
We are very optimistic about the Lutonix opportunity and I think that showed in the multiyear projections that we talked about for 2015.
And we have a question from Jonathan Palmer with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> With regards to emerging markets the perception of Bard's portfolio has been that it's more commodity like and that has really precluded some of your entrance into emerging markets previously.
Obviously the growth you're putting up recently puts that notion to rest.
But I was hoping you could give us some color on which portion of the portfolio you plan to aggressively push across this new plan and how you're really positioning those products versus the local or multinational competitors? Sure.
Just let me take a step back and tell you how we several years ago looked at this.
We clearly we're not going to say to the general manager of an XYZ country "Here is the 10 000 SKU Bard playbook go sell everything." So there was a lot of analysis done in terms of where we felt the market growth opportunities were where the clinical unmet needs were given the varying populations et cetera.
Those were not just internal analysis done.
We retained some outside people to triangulate the data points as well.
So I don't want to get into the competitive aspect of it but we've targeted let's say 7 or 8 key major product groups and you could put it together based on demographics lifestyle kind of the general information you get and take a look at where we're emphasizing those products.
I will tell you to your earlier comment and I was a little confused with the commodity comment but we kind of look at these markets into 2 segments.
One is a premium segment one is a value segment maybe that's where you were going with the commodity comment but the products that we have right now fit very nicely into the premium product segments of those markets.
That's frankly where the money is right now.
And then there's an additional strategy to get into the value segments and then operate those segments down the road.
That's a several-year multiple plan -- a multiple year strategy that frankly goes far beyond this multiple year plan that we've laid out for you.
So I hope that answers the question for you.
But it's a very well-designed thought-through plan.
And as you can see by the results to your comment so far it's worked pretty well for us.
Research Division</strong> That was very helpful.
And then one just follow-up here on Lutonix.
Now that you have another quarter under your belt in Europe can you just give us an update on the launch and also where you stand with the coronary application whether you decide to keep that in-house or partner? We're still evaluating the coronary application not -- have not made a strategic decision on that but we're certainly not sitting on our hands as it relates to that side of the business that's all I'll say.
Number two in terms of what we've seen early on in the launch we like the way we've approached the market introduced the products into the marketplace.
As we know we've always said that the key to that is LEVANT 2 having the clinical data to backup exactly what customers' impressions are of the product line.
But I will tell you that physicians' impressions of our product line vis--vis the competition and what we're seeing in an uptick in terms of revenue meets what our expectations were.
And we have a question from Rick Wise with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions.
One when we -- I guess -- of course we'd love to get some idea of what you're thinking about in the new product entry half of the multiyear operating investment plan but -- and I appreciate you aren't going to give us precise details but can you characterize is there some direction you're going in terms of -- these are all hospital-oriented plans mostly or step-down units? Or can you come at it another way to help us understand what you're prioritizing? Or can you help me frame the question better and answer it? Well let me take a whack at it and I'll pass it on to a couple of the other guys.
I mean I'll go back to the fundamental basic foundation answer would be what I told Joanna earlier to her question.
We start with what we think the growth is going to be.
But if you want to grow faster you got to grow -- you got to invest in the faster-growing segments.
The other aspect of it is that Chris alluded to the fact that these things have been handicapped risk-adjusted was his term significantly.
So we've taken that into consideration more heavily with the R&amp;D than with the geographic thing because there's more uncertainty with the R&amp;D frankly than the geographic aspect of it.
The third thing you look at is the net effect of the new product sale not -- taking away the cannibalization aspect of it.
Which is important given that we're #1 or #2 in 80% of our sales there's going to be by design a certain amount of cannibalization.
So we put kind of heavier weight in those that would be less cannibalized which would mean you'd be getting the same call points but more into some of the adjacent spaces and areas that would move the needle more than something where you'd cannibalize 90% of what you're in today.
So that will give -- that's my whack at it.
Let me give it to John DeFord and he can comment a little more on the R&amp;D.
Yes Tim I think you did a great job of laying that out.
I think if you think about it this way Rick we're not going to take a big risk here and say pick a new technology and a new market and a new call point that we don't know anything about and jump into it.
So we're going to try to leverage the things that we know.
So you can imagine we might have new technologies into existing call points new -- leverage our technologies into a new call point or leverage our technologies into a new market space.
So those are the kind of things that Tim laid out but just to give you a sense of what we're looking at here.
One other thing maybe to help that question a little bit.
When you talk about hospitals or different kind of units step-down units et cetera.
We are very cognizant of especially in the U.S.
decision-making shifting from clinical to admin and then the financial economic aspect of it.
Having said that we don't believe our products are such nor will they ever get to be at a level where the clinician doesn't have any input.
Yes you got to go to value analysis committees and so on and so forth but I mentioned in my commentary price may get you in but that's not going to win the game for you.
You still have to perform clinically be the best for the patient et cetera et cetera.
So it's that combination that we're very cognizant in shifting to that economic buyer.
But that clinical data and the performance has to be there.
At the end of the day that's what's going to win for you not just price.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Just as a follow-up I mean it's impressive to remember -- to think about the past decade and appreciate the transformation that you led at Bard.
One of the key hallmarks was the improving operating margins.
You're talking about sort of mid-decade '15 getting back to 2012 level improving yes.
I mean how much -- when you think about all these plans in the emerging markets and you dial it all in is there a meaningful opportunity not over the next 3 years but over the next 3 to 5 7 years to see operating margins move meaningfully higher if your sort of the high-end of your plans are realized if that's the best way to say it.
Yes I think what we've said is that we would expect a short stem step down in the operating margins while we are in investment mode with that -- the 2015 time frame getting back to our 2012 levels and then moving beyond from there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I mean 30% does not -- just when you think again 5 10 years you really think that these plans are going to drive you substantially higher over time? Well I'll tell you this Rick if you look at us vis--vis our peer group and our operating margin level we're pretty -- and we're not the highest we're pretty damn close to being the highest.
So we think we've got a great operating margin story and we'll get back to that.
I think the driver for us and a lot of where we focus is our gross margin level.
And our guys and Chris went through the results they've had a lot of the percent -- a very high percentage of our cost to goods is in materials and we're doing a very good job there with a lot of runway left to leverage that as we move forward.
So yes there's still a lot of story here to be told as we roll this out over the next several years.
And Rick just to remind you there's $40 million of incremental expense because of the EM debt this year as well.
And we have a question from Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of things I really appreciate this call and all the detail.
Obviously the slightly awkward part of it is that you're starting to spend before the money starts to come in.
And so I guess my first question is if Gore is delayed for the rest of this year what does the 2013 number look like? If you're going to be spending all year long is that more like a $6 number or $6.10 number.
So as a starting point I was wondering if you could just address that? Sure Bob.
When you factor in a quarter's worth of royalty and actually the impact of the buyback with half the bolus it's about $0.30 a quarter.
So if you gain a quarter it's $0.30 if you lose a quarter it's $0.30.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
We can work with that.
And Tim just from a top-down perspective again I appreciate all this detail but you're moving forward here before you have money in hand.
Can you just reiterate what gave you the confidence to move forward with the spend and move forward with this plan.
And I know you talked to it a little bit earlier but just how confident are you that this is all going to work out in the time frame that you lay out and that you're going to be successful? Yes sure.
Two parts there really and they're frankly not new.
One is we're not happy with the revenue growth rate that we're at today.
So this is all targeted at getting the revenue line growing faster.
Secondly when you look at making the investments the returns that we get from both the geographic and the R&amp;D investments are really good they're very good they're returns that any of us -- you'd make in your personal portfolio in a heartbeat.
So those 2 factors and then the capability of the organization we kind of throughout the presentation talked about the infrastructure build with the clinical capability the execution that we've demonstrated on the geographic expansions there's a lot of confidence with me and with the organization and up through our board to execute here against this.
So we put a high probability on being successful with the investment out in front a little bit if you will.
Research Division</strong> No I guess I was just asking the confidence in getting the Gore money in.
Well we've been with that for 1 year.
We waited for the -- what we felt to be in terms of the time line the key to your point was the Supreme Court decision because that could have dragged it on for a long time.
So having had that we got a little more confidence now with that.
Research Division</strong> And then Chris can you -- one way of asking how much buy back you're assuming here in this plan is can you just give us another line item here can you give a share count for '13 '14 15? That's not on my pages here Bob...
You could give us the share price if you want him [ph] to do that.
No I think to be fair we think and have historically and I think today think that it's not the right thing to commit to hard numbers to you guys because it's not the right thing for the company to potentially hamstring ourselves from that perspective.
So the last thing we want to do is make a promise on buybacks and not be able to make an acquisition we think is the right acquisition too.
So I think maintaining flexibility I think is right.
I think having said that we have a long history of being pretty darn consistent about returning a significant portion of our free cash flow through buybacks.
Research Division</strong> But 2014 doesn't assume that.
It assumes just a normal level of buyback correct? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the Q1 guidance I think did you say $1.40 in earnings for the first quarter? Yes $1.40 to $1.44.
I think there's a couple of factors just for folks' benefit.
As I had said there are fewer selling days that we're 1 day short in the U.S.
and 2 days in Europe.
And at these growth rates obviously that's a significant impact to the growth rate and to the GP.
I also noted and we've seen this there is some variability in our GP  because of the timing of our cost improvement plans and as they roll into the P&amp;L.
And so there's a step down in GP in Q1.
And then you've got EM debt [ph] and then you've got Neomend and you've got the investment spending.
So it's burdened with all of those factors as well as the fewer selling days but it's consistent in terms of the investment in emerging markets and the investment in the various projects that we talked about today.
That is beginning and burdening Q1.
But again in the context of this plan and the multiyear strategy we obviously think it's the right thing to do.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then last question is what was the thing that has to happen in order to get 2 payments in 2013 by what date? You mentioned this previously.
Right.
So the royalty needs to be paid 30 days past the end of the quarter.
So July 30 is when the June quarterly payment would be received.
So if we have resolution prior to July 30 give or take a few days we would be able to record the July payment as well as the October payment in revenue for the year.
And a question is from the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to just get some -- one clarification here in how we should really think about end market growth? Obviously there's some cyclical dynamics negatively impacting trends right now.
But if I look at the 2013 guidance of 2% to 5% growth and take out the royalty expectation I get something like 1% gross to the company and I guess a little bit of acquisition in there.
Is that -- how would you square that up against end market growth rates? Yes I think it's David actually pretty consistent to what we've seen in the recent past here.
And so I think when you strip out what we're doing here vis--vis the royalty and the investments we're making we're saying that 2013 looks a lot like the second half of 2012 for us.
We've also talked about there's a couple of places where we may be losing a little bit of share there's places where we're gaining it.
And so we believe we're growing at this point in time in our developed markets with the markets for our end product segments.
So we're in that sort of 0% to 2% range overall obviously in the U.S.
that's weaker.
And that's what we're fighting up against and that's why we're doing what we're doing today in terms of finding other avenues of growth from a product standpoint and accelerating the investments in markets where we're growing 30-plus percent.
Research Division</strong> So I guess if I think conceptually about what you're saying for 2015 that 2 to 3 points above market growth the moving parts around 2015 are your emerging markets will probably be a greater percentage of total sales which would help.
You'd have Lutonix in there that would be sort of new end market that you'd be in.
But when I listen to your commentary we shouldn't be thinking about 2 to 3 points off a base of 1% it sounds like an end market growth would improve with your mix is that the right way to think about it? Yes I think that is.
And again some of these adjacencies that we are moving into are essentially new product categories or new adjacent markets for us.
And so those are going to have growth characteristics we're not in today.
But every dollar of sales is going to be an incremental dollar of revenue for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe lastly for Tim.
I mean you talked a little -- you've talked about it for some time is the reorientation of product development with the focus toward economic effectiveness or cost effectiveness at hospitals to make their purchasing decisions.
But when I sort of listen to the pipeline maybe I'm missing something the product category sound pretty similar to the types of things you and your peers have developed in the past.
Can you maybe give us some flavors to of what that new type of product looks like and how the development time lines might compare to what they've been in the past? And how we should think about that going forward? Let me turn it over to John DeFord.
He can give you a little more granular explanation than I can.
We don't want to give a lot of detail today on some of these products.
They're all competitive spaces and we don't want to signal where we're headed.
I would say that from a returns perspective the projects in our portfolio today as well as the projects that we're adding would have similar returns.
So it's not like we were holding back and waiting to do something better and also not like these are second-tier kind of projects for us.
There are really things that we think we can execute on and accelerate.
I really don't think today is the right time to start getting into the details of those projects.
And we'll -- there be a lot of arm wrestling going on here on what we want to say come June at our Analyst Day but I think we will be in a better position to at least give you some more details there as we just don't want to signal just yet where we're headed.
I think what we did say we did give some pretty tangible examples though that you can grab onto.
We talked about our largest product line PICCs that some of the investment is to drive the market development for PICCs around the world.
We talked about our position in hernia and some of the projects that are here are to expand our hernia pipeline in new indications there.
We talked about our new angioplasty platform as being core to us.
All of these areas are areas where we have key market strengths and share leads today that we want to exploit for the future while adding to that some of the new markets we've gotten into with acquisitions where we can bolt on additional indications for those products.
This is just a pure acceleration of that whole strategic plan.
And we have a question from David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions maybe one for Tim and Chris and then one for Chris.
Just I wanted to make one question on the intermediate term and then one question on the longer-term outlook.
Just first off for organic growth just kind of try and interpolate the guidance it looks like flat to maybe 1% organic growth growing to maybe 2% to 3% organic into '14.
I was hoping you can sort of maybe confirm those numbers.
And maybe just help us understand those early investments you're making in '13 to get that 2-point growth shift into '14.
Where should we think about that organic growth coming from just in the intermediate terms of the plan? And then I have one follow-up.
Yes I think the organic growth again is consistent with what we had in Q4.
It's really adjusted for the days what we would have seen in Q1 and what's really in the model for 2013 which is in about that 1% range.
The nearer term acceleration is going to come primarily just given the timing of the investments and the ability to ramp is in the acceleration of the spend and the growing of the infrastructure in sales in the emerging markets portion of the portfolio.
As well as some of the new adjacencies with development time lines as we said in sort of that 2 to 3 year period for a number of the projects will start to impact '14 as well.
And then obviously as we get into '15 Lutonix has a significant impact as well as a number of the projects in the portfolio at that point are contributing above an organic growth rate that today we're saying is half that.
The Gore impact in '14 obviously there's a full year of royalty assumed in '14 and 1/2 royalty assumed in '13.
So part of the incremental growth in '14 is a result of the full year of royalty.
Research Division</strong> Sure okay.
Very clear.
And then you did a great job kind of walking us through the shareholder returns of the next couple of years.
The one element that did not get a lot of attention in your prepared remarks was acquisitions.
Obviously you're going to move into adjacencies.
But Chris could you share with us kind of your approach the methodology or management's approach to dilution versus accretive deals.
Or if deals are going to be dilutive what type of profiles should we think about in terms of that dilution or what return on invested capital we should look at for some of these targeted adjacencies? Again I hate to lay out a rule when it comes to acquisitions which I know you can appreciate.
The bottom line is right is we want to find investments and deploy capital in a way that's going to create value over time.
And so you can put acquisitions in a number of different buckets.
There are clearly opportunities that we will look at that will be much more bolt-on or acquisitions of companies or product portfolios that we can integrate in that would be clearly accretive out of the gate.
They may not necessarily improve your top line organic growth rate though.
And so I think balancing the investments we're making internally with external investments that are going to have ROIs and growth rates that are going to be accretive is something that we have to do day-to-day and quarter-to-quarter.
So we're very cognizant of the commitments we're making.
We're committed to balancing internal and external investments in a way again that it creates value over the medium and long term and I'd ask that you just judge us when we do things and hopefully we are only going to do them if we think it makes sense for the company and for shareholders.
And hopefully we'll be able to convince shareholders that it is the right investment at the right point in time.
Research Division</strong> So Chris just to be clear so the guidance as it stands through '15 does not include some inherent cushion for potential dilutive transactions? Not explicitly I'd say.
And we have a question from Michael Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I have a handful of questions here.
So the first one is getting back to the '15 top line commentary about 200 to 300 basis points above market.
Could you give us your view of what your markets will be growing in '15 or how we should think about that? Well we can't give you that because we don't know what they're going to be.
I mean if you had asked us 4 years ago we would have projected what they were today it would have been a higher number than it was today.
Research Division</strong> But you'll be in different markets Tim in '15 than you're in today.
Clearly I would say Mike there's a combination of things that I would say would shift that mix as the percentage of emerging markets becomes a bigger percent of total that will help that.
Clearly the acquisitions you got Lutonix launching in 2015 that will help that.
I think tough to put a number on it but it will be faster than it is today would be our expectation.
And difficult to give you a real number but we do plan on growing above whatever that market rate is going to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Let me ask you another question.
The $0.30 a quarter in impact from Gore basically implies $1.20 of accretion from Gore.
Previously your math and our math was for I think a higher number than that.
If you just take that $130 million to $140 million pretax from the ongoing royalty depending on tax and share count you'll get to $1.10 $1 -- as much as $1.15 and -- in EPS contribution just from the royalty without the cash proceeds and without buyback.
So the $0.30 a quarter comment does seem low.
Why isn't it a higher number? Mike I think $140 million of royalty fully taxed at U.S.
rates is about $1.
So the royalty itself is about $0.25 a quarter.
The bolus which is a onetime shot is -- again I was speaking to the timing of it vis--vis moving it a quarter back or a quarter forward.
And then the willfulness there's another $200 million of willfulness that we're not factoring in.
So that's a piece that's not in the number.
But $0.50 from buybacks which included the willfulness number that's onetime obviously.
And then $1 from $140 million of royalty fully taxed at U.S.
rates gets you to $1.50 in total of accretion pre any investment spending.
Research Division</strong> You must have a higher share count and a higher tax rate than I knew because I would get a higher number.
But we can go through that later.
That -- it seems like it should be higher than that just based on running the math to the model.
Let me switch then.
You're talking about growing R&amp;D let's call it 25% in 2013 adding $50 million or so in spending and it's taken you 4 years to grow R&amp;D by $50 million but you're saying you're going to do it in 1 year.
So how do you do that? But obviously we've seen the challenges the company has had in spending that quickly in the past.
And then I just want to be clear that $50 million of -- roughly $50 million of incremental spend that you're talking about this year in R&amp;D is that an internal assumption or is there some assumption that some of that will come from external R&amp;D? Let me take the first part addressing the historic aspect of what you're talking about in terms of the pace.
Now a few years ago we did say we were going to invest more in R&amp;D.
What we didn't anticipate was the slowdown in the revenue growth rate.
So it wasn't as if we weren't prepared to be able to do it we chose not to do it given the pressures on the P&amp;L et cetera et cetera.
And frankly with some of the decisions we made to fast forward and get on the front foot in some of these emerging markets more quickly.
So we've made significant investments on that aspect.
As you know the R&amp;D investments take a little bit longer.
So that's the historic aspect of it John DeFord let me turn the rest over to you.
Sure.
And just briefly Chris kind of alluded to this in his comments.
But we have a lot of development partnerships so we have a lot of capability internally.
We also have established development partnerships so that we can turn on this investment pretty quickly.
And let me put it into perspective too.
When you think about how much we invest be in R&amp;D today and we talk about a call it a roughly $200 million number in 2012 about 40% of that actually goes to new products and 60% of it is funding things like clinical and regulatory and quality and some of the business development activities.
So when you think about what we're doing here we're effectively increasing our R&amp;D by about 50%.
So the number of projects that we'd be adding and the amount of investment that is within our capability to absorb again with our internal capacity and then using established relationships.
So we've kind of tried to hint at this over the last several months but we've been thinking about this planning this and developing our relationships with our external partners for quite a while.
And so we were ready to get this started as soon as we could convince the rest of the senior team it was the right time to invest.
So I'm not at all concerned about our ability to execute on these projects.
Research Division</strong> And just John maybe just for those who've seen the R&amp;D side of Bard really struggle the last 5 years with time line delays.
Give people some sense of your confidence and the ability to execute at this point on time lines and get the returns that Tim and Chris were talking about? Well we don't talk about it a lot but our execution against our time lines have been pretty good on a comparative basis in this marketplace.
Now that said there are certainly some high profile projects that have suffered some delays or things like our antimicrobial ports and antimicrobial pick that went through the development process and weren't successful.
But when you look at the number of projects we've launched on an annual basis and our adherence to our schedules it's really been pretty good.
That said we can always improve.
So I am confident about our ability to execute.
Again we have risk adjusted our portfolio here based on the technology risk based on the clinical and regulatory risk and based on timing.
So we think that we've got a reasonable plan to execute.
And we have a question from the line of Matthew Dodds with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple.
On foreign exchange you've got it you said I think Chris down 50 basis points for gross margin.
I don't think you said for revenue because it seems to me that you don't have a yen impact but the euros gone up so I'm trying to figure out why it would be down in '13 or be a negative.
Matt on the sales sides it's actually going to be probably pretty neutral because of our hedge contracts there's a bit of a disconnect between the impact on GP and the revenue impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then just one line item question for '13.
I know you gave big picture numbers for the divisions but for stent stent grafts in particular it was just down 5 my assumption is looking at that guidance you think it will be worse in 2013 with the comps and some competition in pricing I guess? I think the first 2 quarters are going to be difficult comps for us Matt because of one of our competitors being off the market and we benefited that pretty substantially.
So the comps are really tough Q1 and Q2 should level out after that.
Research Division</strong> All right.
But overall negative down for the year? We haven't forecasted anything like that in terms of being down for the year.
I'm just saying we have tough comps in the first 2 quarters for us.
And we have a question from Matthew O'Brien with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I was just hoping you could talk a little bit about the impact of your plans here if Gore decides to go ahead and move manufacturing offshore or do something to reduce the amount of the royalty going forward.
I mean what would that do to 2014 on the top line and then to '15 as well? I think we can do the calculation on the bottom line.
Well we're not going to -- we don't know what Gore's plans will be.
And as we develop this plan -- and Chris chime in.
As we develop this plan and we look at the early investments we expect by the 2015 time frame we're getting returns on these early investments which will give us the ability to further invest then in other projects and programs to keep this growth profile going.
So from our perspective we're not saying these royalties are going to be there through 2019.
We're using them to really drive the growth and then we will look at that downstream as things developed on that end.
Yes and Matt obviously we've got a lot of balance sheet flexibility.
And obviously as we look to execute acquisitions we'll also have flexibility to dial up and dial down incremental share repurchases as well as we see the potential impact of decline in royalties.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the R&amp;D side I mean I think Mike talked about this a little bit about these heightened -- the increase here in 2013.
But is it just more a function of tired of sitting back and kind of watching the growth suffer as you don't invest.
Because I think Tim you had mentioned in the past that most of the R&amp;D investment was really related to what you see from a macro perspective.
And I don't think you're saying anything here macro-wise that's changing domestically or in Europe.
This is just more of you putting your foot down to try to reinvigorate the growth rate versus anything you're seeing up from a macro perspective is that fair? Yes.
I think that's fair.
I mean we see the opportunities we see what's needed in the marketplace to get to higher growth rate.
Frankly we'd be doing this even without the Gore money.
We need to invest to get the growth rate back and that's what's going to drive in our view shareholder value.
So that's where the focus is at the moment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But just to that end I was curious why now? I mean this is something you've been watching for a while.
And given those returns that you're talking about from a sales and marketing and R&amp;D perspective I mean they're pretty dramatic why have you waited so long? Yes.
Well what we've essentially done I mean we put multiple-year growth plans together for the Board that we go through with them.
Clearly as you see the especially in the more mature markets the growth rates being what they are right now with no sign of them coming back to be able to basically move the needle on the growth rate you got to accelerate your investment plans.
And that's essentially what you're hearing us talk about.
We are moving the plans multiple-year plans forward to make the investments now to get the revenue growth rate moving faster because we don't see the underlying market growth rates in the more mature markets moving around real quickly here.
And Matt I would just add I mean we take our commitment seriously right.
And so it's always a balance between delivering against what you said you're going to do while making the appropriate investments for the future.
And with the dynamism in the markets that we've seen over the last couple of years it's been a tough balance.
And I think we've tried to strike it but at this point in time we're ready to do this and think it's the right thing to do.
But I think over the last couple of years we've made commitments and we've tried to meet them in the face of some pretty stiff headwinds blowing at us from the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Just one more if you don't mind me sliding it in real quick on Lutonix.
Medtronic just completed enrollment in their study they're targeting kind of an early 2015 launch.
And then you've got Covidien now buying CVI.
Can you just give us a sense for your comfort level in still hitting that $100 million target year 1 with Medtronic potentially on the market? And then your thoughts going forward [ph] there.
Is the market big enough for three [ph] big players to generate something along those lines in terms of revenue in year 1 and 2? Or do you think it will be -- there's the potential for some downside risk to that $100 million number that you've thrown out there? There's nothing that we've seen that will at this point in time would cause us to turn from our $100 million target.
We like what we've seen through Lutonix.
If we're doing head-to-head comparisons we like how we stack up.
I'm not sure when player #3 would get into the market but they -- I think they've said a number of years after that.
We're going full power ahead towards $100 million target.
And we have a question from Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just for clarification your R&amp;D targets of 8% is that -- that's over sales like I guess just sales not revenues right? So it's not 8% including the royalty? It actually is Kristen.
So it's 8% of reported revenue which will include the royalty.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's not product sales it's just total revenue.
Total revenue correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just thinking about that number.
What makes I guess 8% kind of right.
A couple of years ago you guys had talked about increasing it I thought to like 8% to 10% of sales.
You guys never got there.
I realize the market slowed and you guys wanted to meet your commitment on the bottom line.
But what's kind of different now I guess to the extent that you see continued incremental pressures from a competitive standpoint? Are you guys committed to I guess the investments or could we also see maybe some of the pace lightened up to the extent we see a further deterioration in the top line? Yes I think a couple of different things.
And I'll turn it over to the rest of the group here to chime in.
Clearly we made some choices over the last couple of years that actually resulted in the revenue -- or I mean the R&amp;D being what it was.
We made a choice to put a lot more investment in the emerging markets which we did at a considerable level.
And the other part of it is that when we look at what we have now we've got this plan that we put together over the last -- more than 1 year frankly.
We've got the projects already outlined defined all laid out on a map.
I mean if you walk in here to work tomorrow and you said "Show me the R&amp;D map that gets you there." We can lay it out project by project business by business and that's what we know today.
Some of the acquisitions that we've made we look at those as platforms we built upon that.
That's even on top of this going forward.
John had mentioned some of the other indications for Neomend that we're very interested in are investment opportunities for us.
And frankly we think the days of -- for us anyway and I'm not going to advocate what other companies do but when you're churning around at low revenue growth rates and trying to do double-digit earnings growth that's not a great long-term strategy.
And we need to invest to get that turned around and that's what we're doing now.
So you guys want to add anything else? I'd like to -- I would say that in one way that's especially important to look at it is that as we embarked on these emerging markets that was uncharted water for us.
And the fact is our execution was superb in those.
Now that as we're doubling down and improving that footprint even larger we've already built the infrastructure the bones of the infrastructure in all these markets.
It makes it a lot easier for us to expand and really continue to execute on it.
So it gives us great confidence that we'll be able to do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And have you guys quantified over the past couple of years what exactly has been the investment in emerging markets as opposed to R&amp;D that you've made? Well we have that number but we haven't disclosed it and nor will we.
I mean if you look at it from the standpoint of -- a good way to look at it our SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue's been about -- more or less constant.
There's been a lot of movement underneath that where we've shifted an awful lot of investment over to emerging markets.
The faster growing markets from the slower growing front markets.
Research Division</strong> And just again I know this question was asked I just want make sure I understand it.
But with respect to future acquisitions you have not explicitly incorporated them I guess from a sales perspective in helping to accelerate the top line nor have you included it from a I guess impact from an earnings perspective.
So that would be something where if you were to do another Neomend  or Lutonix deal where there could be potential dilution or conversely could be accretion obviously the numbers work.
So what you've given out from a 2013 '14 and '15 is just organic expectations is that correct? Yes.
that's correct.
[Operator Instructions] And we go to Anthony Petrone with the Jefferies Group.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I actually have questions on the ROI assumptions on the Slide 8.
I just want to make sure I'm getting this right.
First are those on an annual basis it states Tier 1 investment.
And if so which of the R&amp;D projects should we look toward for most of the return? You have Lutonix Medivance new technologies.
And the reason I ask if you go through the math there it does suggest a heavy drop down.
If you take 50% of the upfront royalty that's about 3 93 adjusted for what it looks like a 60% investment in R&amp;D and clinical initiatives you get about a $230 million investment.
This may be sort of adjusted for when the money comes in.
But either way you do that it does suggest a very heavy drop-down to the bottom line.
Anthony let me just stop you there.
This relates to the royalty revenues only.
We've talked about investing about half the annual royalty.
The annual royalty is 130 to 140 so these investments would represent half that amount.
The bolus is not included in terms of the P&amp;L investments that we'll be making.
We'll be buying back stock with half the bolus.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then the -- so then going back then to the initial upfront half would go to buybacks half then would go to presumably some sort of R&amp;D and internal initiatives and...
The cash if you will will essentially remain as an asset of the company for -- to fund acquisitions and/or incremental buybacks beyond the initial 50%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then the payback periods again that you've outlined are just purely on those annual royalty drop-throughs? Yes.
That's correct.
And we have a question from Josh Jennings with Cowen &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just focused on 2014 I think a question was asked earlier I just wanted to follow-up on.
What is the risk to the full year royalty in terms of what Gore can do to try and minimize the royalty payment? Is there risk to the 2014 assumption and is there any knowledge of any strategic moves that Gore has already put into play as was mentioned before moving manufacturing circumnavigating their engineering et cetera? Yes Josh we don't have any knowledge.
Obviously there are things they can do.
Obviously there is risk to the royalties overtime.
As John said.
We are again looking to move quickly and invest over the next couple of years and obviously we'll be ready to deal with any impacts on the royalty that we might see but it's hard to speculate and we're not aware of anything to speculate about frankly at this point.
I think one other thing to keep in mind here I think this is well known but probably given the question worth pointing out.
Up to now the decision was made several years ago in the jury trial and subsequent decision.
Gore has had to put this money forward on a quarterly basis.
It's not like they've been holding back and saying "Oh guess [ph] what now we got to go write a big check." This money has been in escrow if you will and posted over time.
So it's already if you will they've already written those checks.
So in terms of whatever they do they're going to do but it's not like they're sitting there saying "Oh my god now we got to go write this big check." LLC Research Division</strong> So the risk to your assumption for full year royalty in '14 is very low is this the bottom line? We think it's a reasonable assumption at this point in time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just on strategic business development.
Are there any -- can you comment on whether or not in your plans or your plans could include a transformational acquisition and building out a fifth business unit? Or are you looking to pursue the M&amp;A strategy that you have historically and with Lutonix and Medivance-type acquisitions going forward? Sure.
We were pursuing growth and we're pursuing growth certainly when you look at in the confines of the markets that we're in and as those markets change you've got to look for other newer growth opportunities within the playing field that's laid out by those changes.
And that does open it up for us frankly I think there's a lot of opportunity for us but we're very open-minded as to what we would pursue from an acquisition point of view.
Okay.
We're going to close the line.
And ladies and gentlemen this is going to conclude our Q&amp;A session.
I would like to turn the call back over to over to the Bard's management for closing or additional comments.
Okay well thanks everybody for joining us today.
And I would also like to take this opportunity as I usually do to thank Bard employees around the world for their dedication commitment and hard work.
We look forward to talking to all of you after the first quarter.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this concludes your conference.
We thank you for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the CR Bard Inc.
First Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay with the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Christopher S.
Holland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statement -- information and the information under the caption Risk Factors each in Bard's 2012 10-K including disclosure of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of core operating performance of the company and its individual franchises.
Reconciliations of the non-GAAP measures -- pardon me reconciliations to the non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings press release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of April 23 2013 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information.
Unless otherwise noted all comparisons are to the prior year period.
At this time I will turn the conference over to Timothy R.
Ring (sic) [Timothy M.
Ring].
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
Welcome to Bard's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
I'd like to thank all of you for taking the time to join us this afternoon.
I would expect the presentation portion of the call to last about 20 minutes and we're going to try and keep the total call to about an hour in length.
The discussion today will go as follows: I'll begin with an overview of the results for the first quarter; John Weiland our President and COO will review the first quarter product line revenue; Chris Holland our Senior VP and CFO will review the first quarter income statement and balance sheet as well as our expectations for the second quarter; John DeFord our Senior VP of Science Technology and Clinical Affairs will then provide an update on the product development pipeline.
And then finally we'll close with Q&amp;A.
First quarter 2013 net sales totaled $740.3 million.
That's up 1% over Q1 last year on both and as reported and on a constant currency basis.
Currency impact for the quarter versus the same quarter last year was favorable by about 20 basis points.
Net income for the first quarter of 2013 was $90.7 million and diluted EPS were $1.08.
Excluding items that affect comparability of results between periods which Chris will cover later first quarter 2013 net income and diluted earnings per share were $120.7 million and $1.44 down 13% and 11% respectively.
This was at the high end of our guidance range and as Chris takes you through the details of the P&amp;L a little later I think you'll see that we're executing well out of the gate on our investment plan that we announced to you at the end of January.
Taking a look at the revenue growth geographically compared to the first quarter last year first quarter net sales in the U.S.
were flat compared to 1 year ago.
In Europe we were down 1% on a constant currency basis.
I would say as the focus on and size of our European emerging markets become more meaningful starting with this quarter we will include the growth in these geographies with emerging markets in total and exclude these markets from the European subtotals.
In recent quarters the European emerging markets have typically represented about 1% of total European revenue growth.
Japan grew 2% this quarter.
As a reminder Japan is where we saw the biggest benefit 1 year ago from a competitors' quality issuance stent.
Our other international businesses grew 9% in constant currency with emerging markets on track for another good year representing 7% of our total sales through the first quarter of this year.
In the -- on the business development front we closed a small deal in our oncology business this quarter.
I would tell you our pipeline is active and robust.
As John Weiland will take you through the sales results you'll notice that our businesses performed squarely within the guidance ranges we provided for the full year with the exception of our vascular business which we said would have a tough start to the year because of the competitor stent recall 1 year ago.
We're pleased to report that we're off to a strong start executing on our investment plan.
As we said it would take some time to see the results on the revenue line but you can already see our increased investment in emerging markets and R&amp;D in the first 3 months of this year.
We put together an aggressive thorough and detailed plan and our decentralized structure is allowing us to move quickly on multiple fronts simultaneously.
Regarding the Gore litigation you probably saw that the District Court has scheduled oral arguments on the 3 pending motions for June 5.
We're pleased that the process is moving forward and closer to conclusion.
While this timing is within the scenarios we contemplated when we gave guidance 1 quarter ago it's on the back end of that time window.
The process would need to move efficiently in our favor after June 5 to still allow us to recognize 6 months of royalty revenue in 2013.
That's still possible and given the uncertainty of the process until we learn more we don't think it makes sense to update guidance at this time.
Just as a reminder we told you on the last call that if timing does slip it affects 2013 adjusted EPS by about $0.30 per quarter and we don't expect it to affect 2014.
We'll continue to be very transparent with you on this issue and should have a better sense of the impact on 2013 once the District Court rules on the motions.
With that let me turn you over to John Weiland for a review of our product line revenue.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start let me point out that I'll be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior year period on a constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
We'll begin with vascular.
Total net sales were $203.2 million down 3% from last year in both an as reported and a constant currency basis.
Our U.S.
business was down 6% for the quarter and international sales were flat.
Our electrophysiology sales were down 1% for the quarter.
Our EP Lab system sales were up 30%.
As we told you before we can see peaks and valleys in this product line on a quarterly basis and this quarter was a strong on emerging market system sales.
Our disposable EP product lines were down 6% in Q1.
Sales in our surgical breadth category were down 10% this quarter.
We told you that we saw strong OEM orders in the fourth quarter and saw the opposite of that in Q1.
Our endovascular business declined 3% in the first quarter.
Within endovascular our biopsy products were down 4% that was -- we have not seen any change in market dynamics here.
This quarter we launched our new breast tissue marker the SenoMark Ultra.
This new marker has a flexible applicator designed for deployment with all vacuum-assisted biopsy systems.
Its design minimizes migration and its material composition supports permanent clear visualization under ultrasound MRI or x-ray imaging.
Sales in our peripheral PTA line increased 9% in Q1 with our small vessel products and Lutonix outside of the United States sales driving the growth.
Our vena cava filter line grew 7% in the first quarter.
Our stent business declined 13% in Q1 compared to the prior year and was flat sequentially with the fourth quarter.
As we told you the first half of the year is up against some very tough comps as a competitor was off the market 1 year ago and pricing remains challenging with multiple players on label now.
Now let's move to urology.
Total net sales were $188.8 million up 2% versus Q1 of last year on both a constant currency and an as reported basis.
The United States business was flat while internationally we grew 5%.
This was the first full quarter after the anniversary of the Medivance acquisition and we're pleased to report that those products grew in the healthy double digits this quarter both in the United States and internationally.
Our basic drainage business was up 3% in Q1.
In the United States basic drainage was up 1% which is the first positive growth number in 7 quarters.
Our I.C.
Foley business was down 1% globally and down 5% in the United States.
Our continence business was down 5% in Q1 consistent with recent experience.
Sales in neurological specialties were down 5% in Q1 mostly due to our brachytherapy business which was down 9%.
And finally standalone sales of our StatLock catheter stabilization line decreased 1% in Q1.
Next is oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $207.1 million an increase of 4% over Q1 last year on both a constant currency and as reported basis.
Geographically net sales in the United States were up 4% and international sales were up 3%.
Our port business grew 1% over the first quarter of last year while our PICC revenue was up 5%.
Our 3CG PICC sales conversions continue at a strong pace.
We're probably in about the fourth inning in the United States and we're just getting started in what we think is a significant long-term global opportunity.
Our Vascular Access ultrasound product line was up 5% this quarter and our dialysis catheter product line was up 8%.
And we'll finish up now with surgical specialties.
Net sales in this category were $120.3 million up 5% on both a constant currency and as reported basis.
United States sales were up 5% and international sales were also up 5% for the quarter.
Our surgical sealant products acquired when we purchased Neomend Inc.
last quarter are off to a strong start and we're delighted with how the integration is progressing.
Our soft tissue repair business grew 3% this quarter as we saw a nice rebound in natural tissue products which grew 11%.
We also expanded the availability of our ECHO PS mesh positioning technology into other popular ventral hernia repair mesh sizes this quarter and we're on track to fill out our VENTRALIGHT ST line with ECHO PS in the back half of the year.
Our hernia fixation line decreased 11% this quarter and our performance irrigation product line was down 16%.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to John DeFord.
Thanks John.
Good afternoon everyone.
With our Analyst Day just a few weeks away I'll just give you a few highlights in our pipeline today.
As you know this quarter we began to execute our plan to significantly increase our R&amp;D investment.
And at the Analyst Day we'll lay out for you the magnitude of some of the opportunities we're pursuing.
I'll start today with the ENCOMPASS mesh atrial fibrillation ablation technology.
We completed enrollment in the feasibility study late last year and we just reached our 6-month follow-up point in this 40-patient study.
These data will support our CE mark filing planned for this quarter and they will form a basis for our IDE submission to FDA later in the year.
In our Lutonix drug-coated balloon program we're in the follow-up phase of the pivotal study LEVANT 2 study of 476 patients treated for SFA disease.
Our important 1-year follow-up point for all patients is coming up in July.
We're also over halfway through the enrollment of our 650-patient continued access registry.
In Q1 we started a broad global registry for SFA interventions and we just enrolled our first patient in a pre-approval SFA study [indiscernible].
We're also launching additional SFA sizes in Europe this quarter.
Now in addition to those programs our below-the-knee platform is slated to launch in Europe in the next few months and our pivotal below-the-knee IDE was recently approved for commencement of enrollment by FDA.
Our timeline anticipates starting patient treatments this quarter.
In stent grafts we reported last quarter that we'd reached our enrollment target in the clinical study of the FLUENCY PLUS family for the AV access instant restenosis indication.
Follow-up will continue for 6 months and we anticipate submission of the clinical module of this PMA in Q4 with launch upon approval likely in the back half of 2014.
Moving to filters.
We reported on the last call that we completed the major portion of our enrollment and the bulk of our follow-up in our next-generation Denali Vena Cava Filter clinical study.
We've now completed required follow-up and submitted our 510(k) with clinical data to support clearance with both permanent and retrievable indications.
Launch will depend upon FDA concurrence.
Moving to oncology.
In ports we've begun the full launch of our new PowerPort Clearview Slim family of low artifact MRI safe implants.
We've pioneered the development of the Clearview technology using materials that significantly reduce MR and CT imaging artifact and reduces the attenuation of therapeutic radiation.
We're also working on the creation of the 3CG port catheter tracking and confirmation technology with a plan to launch the 3CG port system around the end of the year.
Further in imaging we remain on track to launch the new Site-Rite Vision 2 Ultrasound platform in Q3 in both Europe and the U.S.
This product was previously called the Site-Rite 7 program.
Moving to surgery as John stated we're on track with our previously disclosed plan to expand our offering of the ECHO mesh placement system in the back half of the year.
Now before I turn you over to Chris I'd like to again extend to you an invitation to our annual analyst meeting where we'll discuss our investment opportunities in greater detail.
Please note an update to the location of the meeting which will be held at the Waldorf Astoria in New York City on June 3 beginning at 4:30 p.m.
For those that can't attend the meeting will be available by webcast.
Now let me turn you over to Chris.
Thanks John.
Let me start by covering the items that affect the comparability of our results between periods.
We took a litigation charge of $25.8 million pretax which included our previously disclosed write-off of an insurance receivable.
We also had asset impairments of $5.7 million and acquisition-related items of $700 000 pretax.
The P&amp;L impact is detailed in the notes to the financial statements and the reconciliation accompanying our Q1 earnings press release.
Now let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $445 million or 60.1% of sales for Q1.
On an adjusted basis GP was $447.1 million or 60.4% of sales down 130 basis points from the prior year quarter.
This was right in line with our expectations as we had forecasted a step-down in GP in Q1 due to timing issues.
Our cost improvement programs are right on track and it's not uncommon for us to see increased cost ahead of recognizing the savings in the P&amp;L.
New amortization of intangibles related to transactions closed in the last 12 months cost us about 20 basis points year-over-year this quarter.
Pricing pressure was unfavorable by 110 basis points on the revenue line and about 40 basis points in GP this quarter both in line with our expectations.
In Q2 we're projecting a significant rebound in GPs back to the prior year level and we're in good shape on our annual projection which assumes the Gore timing as previously communicated.
SG&amp;A expenses were $216.4 million for the quarter or 29.2% of sales an increase of 150 basis points on both a reported and adjusted basis and right on track with what we told you to expect.
110 basis points of the increase is due to the new medical device excise tax and the balance is driven by the increased spending on our investment plan focused on emerging markets.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $59.3 million for the first quarter or 8% of sales up 150 basis points on an adjusted basis compared to 1 year ago.
As Tim said our teams are off to a strong start executing on the investment plan that we laid out for you in January.
Interest expense was $11.4 million for the first quarter up as expected from 1 year ago due to our bond offering completed in Q4.
Other income and expense was $30.3 million of expense for the first quarter as reported and $800 000 of expense on an adjusted basis.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 28.9% on a reported basis and 24.5% on an adjusted basis right on track with our expectations.
Remember that we recognized the entire 2012 R&amp;D tax credit in Q1 of 2013 so starting next quarter you should see the tax rate move more in line with our full year guidance.
Diluted shares for the period were 82.5 million as we purchased 1.5 million shares during Q1.
The net result is adjusted EPS of $1.44 at the top end of our guidance range for the quarter.
The balance sheet as of March 31 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of $905.3 million versus $921.3 million at December 31.
For the quarter accounts receivable days were down 2.3 days and inventory days were down 0.2 days.
Capital expenditures totaled $13.2 million for the quarter.
On the liability side total debt was $1.4 billion as of March 31 no change from December 31.
Debt to total cap at the end of the quarter was about 43% and total shareholder investment was $1.9 billion at March 31 2013.
In looking at Q2 we're expecting to see similar constant currency sales growth to what we saw in Q1.
Given the previously discussed first half headwinds we told you that our revenue growth expectations for the start of the year was flattish and we don't see any reason to change that.
From an EPS standpoint excluding items affecting comparability we see the second quarter in the range of $1.35 to $1.39 as we continue to aggressively ramp our investment spending in both SG&amp;A and R&amp;D consistent with our strategic plan.
And with that let me turn it back to Tim.
Great.
Thanks Chris.
That does conclude the formal part of the presentation.
Let me now turn the call back to the moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Kim here for Mike.
A couple of questions on our end.
So I guess the first one maybe for Chris with regard to the second quarter guide the $1.35 to $1.39.
It sounds like you're looking for gross margin to kind of return to the year-ago level so around 61.5%.
Can you give us a little bit of color around how you were thinking about the operating spend in the second quarter? Yes that's correct Kim.
61.5% is a good estimate of Q2.
We are continuing -- as we talked about in January this is a very ambitious plan that will continue to ramp through the course of the year.
We're off to a very good start and we expect a continued significant ramp in both R&amp;D and in SG&amp;A in Q2.
Again as Tim said we're not updating full year guidance so it's really just a timing and the sequencing of those operating spending as we move through the year but again expect continued significant dollar ramp in SG&amp;A and R&amp;D in Q2.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the R&amp;D side is it fair to say that that's going to be around some of the clinical trials that John touched on here? Yes Kim I'd say it's certainly a number of the clinical trials.
But I think as we laid out in the Q4 call we have ramped and added a number of new programs to our R&amp;D organization.
So we've got a number of new products and projects that are ongoing.
So that's also a big part of this.
As we said in January there are literally dozens of new projects in the R&amp;D portfolio now that are being invested in.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I guess one last one for Chris.
Could you tell us what the impact of -- the total impact of acquisitions was in the quarter? It was a little less than 1% Kim.
Our next question comes from the line of Larry Keusch Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tim or Chris obviously I understand there was an anticipation that the date for the oral arguments would move from that original May 22 date obviously now June 5.
And I also get that this kind of pushes you out towards the latter part of your assumptions for the receipt of the money and the original guidance.
But can you walk us through exactly the sequence of events that occurs from the sixth to when you might have the receipt of the money just logistically what happens? Yes.
So the judge will hear oral arguments on all 3 motions Larry as we've discussed on the fifth.
She will then rule on those motions.
We don't know how quickly.
There's a range of time frames from that afternoon to shortly thereafter to a couple of weeks later.
But that -- we just can't predict that.
Obviously depending on how she rules that will then trigger responses from us and Gore including their likely appeal of motions that are in our favor.
That will then send those appeals up to the appellate court and then back down.
Again those timeframes are hard to predict exactly.
And again there's a range of scenarios from very quick to somewhat longer.
So as we said certainly still possible by the end of July we'd have final resolution less likely than if we had more time.
But it's just -- obviously the rulings on the motions is the next important step and then depending on what they are that will give us better visibility to steps 2 and 3.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then just lastly just on the outlook for price I think you said negative 110 basis points this quarter a little bit of improvement over the fourth quarter.
How should we think about that for the remainder of the year? Yes I think for the full year we think the level that we saw in '12 is still the right way to think about it.
So in that 130 to 140 range for the full year is still where our heads are at.
Next question comes from the line of Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Lennox Ketner in for Bob.
Just 2 questions.
First there's been some growing attention lately on the pelvic floor litigation and I'm wondering if you guys could just speak about kind of how you think about the potential liability there and if that impacts your spending plans at all going forward.
Yes we don't really comment on any ongoing litigation at all.
Any disclosures we'd make you'd see in public filings that we make.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But -- so there's no impact of that on the spending plans that you've laid out in the past? No we're executing against the plan we laid out in January and we see no reason that any litigation would change that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question I just want to make sure I understand what's driving the gross profit improvement from Q1 to Q2.
Is that just primarily the timing of some of your profitability improvement initiatives? Yes.
As we said the programs as they're completed and then as they roll into the P&amp;L creates variability from quarter-to-quarter.
So it's nothing other than the timing of our initiatives and how they roll into the P&amp;L.
Next question comes from the line of Dave Turkaly JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> On the -- over on the PICC side it seemed like a pretty good quarter.
I know you've mentioned in the past that's a big opportunity in the emerging markets.
Did you quantify what that was internationally the PICC performance? And can you maybe help us get a hand on the size of maybe what that emerging market opportunity is for PICCs? We really don't break out the PICC sales internationally versus the United States for competitive reasons but it was a very strong performance internationally.
And I think as we just talked about in January the -- part of our investment spending is actually to drive accelerated penetration of PICCs internationally.
And actually we think there's very large underpenetrated opportunities and not just emerging markets but even some of the developed Western markets where PICC adoption is in its very early stages.
So it's the single largest opportunity globally for the company.
And an awful lot of that -- of the size of that opportunity would never be reflected in global markets today because a lot of it is -- an awful lot of that is market development and training on our side.
So you wouldn't see that in a global market number.
Next question comes from the line of Matthew Taylor with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's Dan sitting in for Matt.
I just wanted a quick follow-up on margins.
I mean if we look at margins I guess for '13 and appreciating that it's an investment year and you guys have communicated the near term -- the expected step-down near term if you look out a couple of years can you just like discuss like what do you see as more like the normalized operating margin for the business? Yes I think what we had indicated in January was that as we work through the investments in '13 and '14 primarily we obviously begin to annualize the impact of price of the device tax that by '15 we would return to the levels that we had seen in '12 which really are sector-leading from an operating margin standpoint.
And then from '15 and beyond we continue to see opportunities to drive margins higher in particular through continued GP improvements.
So that's what we have stated as the objective over the next 3 years and then obviously we will continue to focus on moving them higher beyond that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one quick one on Gore.
You've given your expectation for the receipt of fund.
You've laid out your investment strategy there.
So I'm just kind of wondering though how -- would there be any change if potentially the funds would be significantly earlier later than actually anticipated? Not to our investment strategy no.
Next question comes from the line of Jason Wittes Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> I guess in looking through your results I was a little surprised to see the rebound in biologics for mesh.
Could you kind of explain what changed this quarter from say the last couple in terms of -- because it does definitely seems like an inflection point here.
We had a -- this is John Weiland.
We had a very strong quarter in our xenograft product for hernia repair.
And I think what we saw is the introduction of some clinical data John can talk to that in a second some clinical data on our XENMATRIX product line which is very compelling from an outcome standpoint.
I think that's the biggest driver we're seeing right now.
Research Division</strong> And I assume that just helped with some of the pushback you've been getting with the payers and the hospitals.
When they saw the data they were sort of more willing to sort of step in and pay the premiums to biologics.
Is that what I should be...
No I think that the physicians in making a choice saw the outcome data and 1 quarter is not a trend but the -- based on the size of the growth that we saw that was significant we believe that is the driver.
Next question comes from the line of David Lewis Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jon Demchick in for David.
As expected we saw I guess a step-up in investment this quarter and I was just wondering if you could maybe break out some of the recent investment dollars into buckets for product development or into emerging markets and was also wondering if you could give some color commentary on how emerging markets have been growing with the added investments.
We're not going to do more than what we did in January which was bucket the portfolio of investments between 60% of the dollars going into R&amp;D and clinical-related efforts and about 40% going into sales and infrastructure builds primarily in emerging markets.
So that's how we're spending the dollars today.
That's how we'll spend the dollars over the next couple of years.
And as we said there's dozens of projects in each of those categories that we're executing against.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Very helpful.
And also had a quick follow-up on the Gore royalty.
You guys have previously said that you I guess expect the quarterly run rate in the $35 million range and reaching its highest point around 2014 and then declining after that were kind of the internal assumptions you had working.
I guess I have typically been thinking of the royalty as more binary meaning that if Gore works around the royalty it would drop more substantially and if it doesn't it would stay at more of the normalized levels.
I'm just wondering what assumptions you guys were thinking on the more gradual decline or if it was just kind of a fill-in assumption.
I'll try to answer that.
I think that the regulatory pathway for a material change is long especially outside the U.S.
So -- and even changing to an o U.S.
location could take a long time.
So our thinking was if there was a design around you couldn't change some big markets very quickly like Japan for example would take some time period to do that.
And of course there's some time associated with the regulatory reviews even in Europe and the U.S.
So our thinking was that if they had design-arounds or move manufacturing or did whatever they decided they wanted to do it would take some time for them to be able to affect that.
Next question comes from the line of Jonathan Palmer CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Tim I was wondering if I could ask you a strategic question here.
According to a recent proxy statement that was filed it appears there's some significant changes being made to how senior management is being compensated.
Historically EPS growth was the key performance target there.
Could you maybe discuss on a high level what metrics the new plan is focused on and then as a follow-up how that dovetails with a 3-year roadmap you recently released? Sure.
I think it correlates very nicely with what we're trying to do strategically which is what you want your comp plans to do.
We shifted much more to our revenue growth orientation.
It was a smaller component in the past.
And as you know as we've said historically we're big believers that it's revenue growth that will actually start to drive the stock price.
And we've said that now for well over 10 years.
So that was the tweak in the computation.
Next question comes from the line of Michael Mattson Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> Yes so just a question on your EPS guidance for the second quarter.
It's a little lower than what I've been modeling.
And you did say that gross margins were going to be up sequentially.
So I assume that means SG&amp;A and/or R&amp;D are going to be also up sequentially.
And I was just wondering if you could kind of explain what's going on there.
Are you stepping up investment even more into the second quarter? And then just a second question on the selling days in the quarter.
Did you have fewer selling days? And what was the impact to that if you did versus Q1 of 2012? Yes sure.
The -- again the investing is ramping as we move through the year.
So there absolute is sequential ramp in both R&amp;D and SG&amp;A related specifically to the investment plan projects that we laid out in January.
So that is indeed what's happening and that's why you see the EPS guidance that we've given despite the increase in gross margin in Q2.
And in terms of selling days we did as we have indicated in January have fewer days 1 day less in the U.S.
and about 2 days less in Europe.
It's hard to exactly quantify as you can imagine what the impact was.
But if you do it linearly it's about 1 point or a bit more.
Next question comes from the line of Matthew Dodds Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Tim did you give the emerging market growth upfront? You said 7% of total.
Did you give the growth rate? I didn't give a specific number Matt no.
Research Division</strong> You used to.
Can you? It's a strong double-digit number Matt.
And for the full year we're on track to deliver a very strong emerging market growth rate pretty consistent with what we've seen historically.
I did mention that we were shifting the European emerging markets and just putting that in the emerging markets category going forward.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So that would put you at 8% total I think if you -- based on what you said right? That's how it would map out in Q1? It rounds to 7% Matt.
Research Division</strong> Oh with the 1%? That's 1% of Europe growth.
Europe emerging markets has historically contributed about 1% of Europe's growth.
Not total growth.
Not total growth.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then for John Weiland a quick one on the stent graft market.
If you look at kind of 3 main pieces of the market which is the smart stent comeback or competitor stent coming back ASP pressure and then volume can you give us an idea of are volumes still growing at a decent clip? And how much of it is ASP pressure in that decline? Well we said in our overall stent business that we declined 13%.
ASP was part of that Matt.
But really the big issue quite frankly is the comps to prior year.
Q1 Q2 and to a lesser degree Q3 were very strong quarters as a competitor's product was off the market.
And as that came back late in the third quarter and into the fourth quarter the comparables become much tougher for us obviously.
So -- but overall I'd say that the biggest impact was the result of the competitor coming back on market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But big picture do you think that there is still 5% to 10% unit growth in that market? I would say that's a pretty good arena.
Next question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It's Rob Wisniewski in for Kristen.
Utilization and austerity measures have been a theme that have crept up again this quarter.
I just want to get your thoughts on what the end markets look like and whether there are any difference from 4Q to 1Q.
Yes.
We for now several quarters have said we don't anticipate any drastic change and -- in the U.S.
anyway.
And again we kind of stick by that going forward.
There had been some talk and we read the same stuff you read of a flu bump or whatever.
It's hard to decipher all that out.
I think there's a category of -- category now when you try to look at public hospital data inpatient versus observation status now makes it a little murkier to track.
So it's a little difficult but it's not significant growth in the U.S.
that's for sure.
Next question comes from the line of Matthew O'Brien with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just on Lutonix over in Europe I think John you mentioned some new SFA products coming out and then the below-the-knee opportunity.
Can you just give us a sense for some of the opportunity -- just kind of quantify the opportunities in both segments? And then I know it's early days for that product but can you give us a sense for cannibalization of your existing products versus just more incremental revenue you're able to generate with that on the market? I can jump in on the cannibalization piece.
John DeFord here.
I think at this stage we're not really seeing much in the way cannibalization of our existing products.
And most of the impact would really come from stents.
So we're not seeing that at this stage.
We do think below-the-knee is going to be certainly interesting and getting that clinical study started is going to be important.
So I think we're pretty much on track.
I'll let John Weiland talk more to the growth and sales aspect of it.
The -- we're on track based on what our expectations and how we rolled out our budgets for the Lutonix PTA in Europe.
We think that market's about $80 million right now.
There's -- as we've said before there's no clear leader in there.
It's a pretty dispersed group of competitors on there.
We think the key to that market is the long-term data associated with LEVANT 2 trial.
We expect to have 1-year data near the end of the summer.
And hopefully we'll be talking about some of that in the fall or so and I think that will be a real impetus to clinicians to see the potential that that product has for patients.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Would you mind just providing any kind of estimate as far as below the knee maybe next couple of years? Relative to...
Research Division</strong> Relative to the $80 million you're talking about today.
Well so below the knee in Europe there are products already on the market.
So it's not like we're blazing a trail here where there are no products on the market.
There are competitive entries.
So we do think that there's not a lot of clinical data for below-the-knee.
There's certainly nothing large randomized.
And so we think getting our pivotal study started is another crucial part to growing that market obviously in Europe and the U.S.
and rest of the world as well.
So right now the $80 million would encompass that.
Next question comes from the line of Rich Newitter with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> I think you had mentioned with respect to your 3CG product the PICC placement product that you're in the fourth inning.
Can you just say what exactly that means what you're referring to? I think prior calls you said that you were about -- you saw a 70% penetration with respect to kind of moving away from x-ray.
Just can you reconcile those 2 comments and give us an update on that penetration number? Well the first -- the 70% number that is the portion of those customers that have already converted to 3CG that have eliminated confirmatory x-rays within their hospitals.
The fourth inning I think that's just kind of a gauge that we're just trying to give you that there's still a lot of growth left available to us in the United States market in terms of the conversion rate opportunity and the fact is that we really only started this outside the United States just around now.
So there's a long runway for us x U.S.
and we still have quite a bit of runway in the United States in terms of potential conversions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just piggybacking off a prior question on kind of the sequential changes in end markets.
It sounds like no real changes in the U.S.
Just in the EU can you give us any characterization of kind of any kind of trend that you might be seeing even if it's directional things are basically stable slightly worse slightly improved? I think when you look at Europe in 1 quarter it's tough to tell a trend here but I think we're seeing a little softness in Germany and Italy and in France.
The other markets actually are doing okay.
Italy's got some macroeconomic issues no budgets and government issues there that have to kind of get straightened out which could bring some stability back to spending once they get a budget that's approved.
But it's kind of a nuance here and there but those are where we're seeing the softness right now.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Petrone Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple for Chris and then a follow-up for Tim and/or John DeFord.
Chris I'm not sure you gave the med tech tax inclusion SG&amp;A.
If you did I apologize.
And can you also walk through the step-down? And the tax rate in the Q is a little bit more than 100 to 120 basis points of improvement you guided toward last quarter.
So any color that will be helpful.
Yes sure Anthony.
I covered that in the prepared remarks.
So the 110 basis points of the increase in SG&amp;A was related to the device tax.
And in terms of the tax rate step-down because the R&amp;D tax credit was passed in the beginning of 2013 retroactively for 2012 we were unable to record it in 2012.
So the full R&amp;D tax credit which was just under $4 million was recognized in its entirety in Q1.
And so now that that is behind us we -- the guidance of 100 to 130 basis points of reduction in the tax rate was for the full year.
And so in Q2 you'll see the tax rate move back towards the 27% range which is more consistent with what we'll see for the rest of the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just one on the R&amp;D investments you laid out last quarter.
So going to the end of 2013 to 90 active clinical studies just trying to get a sense of the maturity profile of the -- of this extended portfolio.
We know Lutonix is more of a 2015 event.
I'm wondering how many of these studies will be completed before then and hence will be ROI-positive within the next say 1 to 3 years.
Sure.
So if you take a look at that roughly 90 studies that we said we'd have active this year we actually think we're a little bit north of that.
Those roll out those are in combination of pre-market post-market economic studies and so on and so some of the post-market studies will roll out.
I think we've got a relatively good mix.
Obviously the PMA-type products so the Lutonix products are probably in the '14 '15 and later timeframe.
But we do have a number of other products in there.
When you think about like our FLUENCY instant restenosis study we talked about that in the prepared remarks finishing up.
We're in the follow-up period there.
We do have a number of other studies in that mix and obviously we're looking to expand some indications in some of our existing platforms.
So those are probably in the '14 to '15 timeframe.
So I think if you put it all together as Chris and as Tim had said we don't see a big revenue impact of these new investments in '13.
They begin to happen in '14 and then become more mature in '15.
The other thing I would add relative to the trials in terms of the absolute number a significant number of those trials are to generate medical economic data not necessarily for regulatory approvals.
So you need to factor that in as well when you think about it.
Next question comes from the line of Josh Jennings Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess just first for Tim.
I know there's continued rumblings about repeal of the med device tax.
Any optimism there? Or is it just still rumblings? Well I'm the eternal optimist and slightly crazy to try to get that overturned.
I think it gets a little bit -- it really depends on what happens in my view with kind of overall tax law.
Well clearly you saw support from 79 senators I think was the total number to repeal that.
And I don't think -- I can't recall ever a vote where 79 senators agreed on anything.
So if you want to read -- but it didn't mean anything.
And the truth will come out when they have to vote on something that counts.
And I think that it will probably take place if it takes place at all in the form of some overall tax reform bill later in the year if that happens.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just lastly a unit line item-specific question on electrophysiology.
It's one of the more attractive markets you guys are exposed to.
Any strategic initiatives you can take to approach -- get closer to market growth rates outside of the approval of ENCOMPASS in international markets as well as in the U.S.? And then just have a follow-up on ENCOMPASS.
Well I think we think ENCOMPASS is the big opportunity where an awful lot of the growth rate in that market segment is derived from.
So we're squarely focused on that.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then -- and can you give us any comfort just in terms of -- I know it's an RF energy multi-point ablation catheter and just in terms of what happened with Medtronic's Ablation Frontiers technology as being a non-irrigated catheter and the asymptomatic cerebral events.
Any you can share that could give us more confidence that that's not going to experience the same fate? We haven't talked about details of this publicly yet and we'd expect to talk more about this coming up at our Analyst Day.
But we did do a study looking at cerebral events and saw results that would be more consistent with irrigated tip catheter on a comparative basis.
So we don't think we're in the same kind of situation that Ablation Frontiers found themselves in.
So we've got a lot of comfort around that at this stage.
There are no additional questions.
This concludes our Q&amp;A session.
I would like to turn the call back over to Bard's management for closing comments.
Thanks.
I'd like to take the opportunity to thank Bard employees around the world for a strong start and investigating -- or executing on our investment plan.
And we would look forward to joining all of you and updating you on our progress at the end of next quarter.
Thanks very much.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
I want to thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the C.
R.
Bard Inc.
Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Christopher S.
Holland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding the forward-looking information in Bard's March 31 2013 Form 10-Q and the information under the caption Risk Factors in Bard's 2012 10-K including disclosure of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance of the company and its individual product franchises.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings press release and in the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of July 23 2013 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information.
Unless otherwise noted all comparisons are to the prior year period.
At this time I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Sandy and welcome to Bard's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
I'd also like to thank you all for taking the time to join us today.
I'd expect the presentation portion of the call will last about 20 minutes.
The discussions today will go as follows: I'll begin with an overview of the results for the second quarter; John Weiland our President and COO will review the second quarter product line revenue; Chris Holland our Senior VP and CFO will review the second quarter income statement and balance sheet as well as our expectations for Q3.
And because we've just recently updated you on our pipeline at our Analyst Meeting held in June after Chris we'll just go straight to Q&amp;A.
John DeFord our Senior VP Science Technology and Clinical Affairs is with us to help answer any questions you may have.
Second quarter 2013 net sales totaled $759.9 million.
That's up 2% over the second quarter last year on an as-reported basis and up 3% on a constant currency basis.
The currency impact for the quarter versus the same quarter last year was unfavorable by about 20 basis points.
The net loss for the second quarter of 2013 was $161.6 million and diluted loss per share was $2.03.
That included a net charge for product liability of approximately $293 million.
Excluding this and other items that affected the comparability results between periods which Chris will cover later second quarter 2013 net income and diluted EPS were $117.2 million and $1.42 down 17% and 12% respectively.
These adjusted results exceeded the guidance we provided for the quarter.
Our investment plan is proceeding as planned and our teams are executing on the opportunities in front of us.
Taking a look at revenue growth geographically compared to Q2 of last year.
Second quarter net sales in the U.S.
increased 2% while internationally we grew 4% on a constant currency basis.
Europe grew 1% in constant currency.
Japan declined 4% from a very difficult comp last year when a competitor stent was off the market there.
Our other international businesses grew 13% in constant currency with emerging markets leading the way again now representing 8% of our global sales.
We're very pleased with the progression we're seeing from our investments in emerging markets.
On the business development front we remain very active with some attractive targets we hope to talk about later this year.
I'm sure you saw our announcement of the divestiture of our electrophysiology business this quarter.
We would expect that transaction to close this year.
We believe this is strategically the right move for us at this time so we can focus our resources on faster growth opportunities where we believe we can achieve sustainable long-term leadership positions.
The surgical sealant products we acquired in fourth quarter of last year are performing well and we're very pleased with the integration so far.
We told you the impact would be a little less than 1% of growth in 2013 and that was their impact in the second quarter.
So while we're not happy with global growth in the low single digits and we're actively working to improve that we are pleased with the improvement on our operating results this quarter.
We continue to manage the business to shift the mix of the portfolio to faster-growing products and geographies and we're focused on improving the portfolio and remain optimistic in our ability over the next couple of years to return to above market revenue growth.
We do believe the investment plan that we announced to you all in January and spent a considerable amount of time on at our analyst meeting last month will serve as a significant catalyst to help us get back to sustainable faster revenue growth longer term.
We're very focused on execution.
And as I mentioned we're pleased with the results so far.
I can tell you that the teams are energized and excited to be back on offense.
There's certainly more to come here and we look forward to updating you on our progress in the upcoming quarters.
Before I hand the call over to John Weiland I want to give you a brief update on the Gore litigation.
As most of you know the oral arguments at the District Court in Arizona took place on June 12.
We continue to await the judge's ruling on our motion to release the funds for the underlying infringement and also on the separate question as to whether Gore's infringement was willful or not which comes with an additional and separate penalties not included in our guidance.
We continue to believe that we'll receive the cash related to the underlying infringement before the end of the year.
That amount just to remind you through March 31 2013 is approximately $819 million and has been growing every quarter.
Our original adjusted EPS guidance for 2013 assumed we would have the money by the end of July and we told you that every quarter was worth about $0.30 to adjusted EPS.
Once we get the ruling we will be in a better position to be more precise with the estimated timing and the potential impact to EPS for this year.
So with that let me turn you over to John Weiland for a review of our product line revenue.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start let me point out that I'll be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior year period on a constant currency basis unless noted otherwise.
So let's begin with vascular.
Total net sales were $212.2 million down 4% over last year on both an as reported and constant currency basis.
Our U.S.
business was down 2% for the quarter while internationally we were down 6%.
Our electrophysiology sales were down 1% for the quarter with EP Lab system sales up 2% and our disposable EP product line is down 1%.
Sales in our surgical graft category were down 4% in Q2 within the range of recent experience.
Our endovascular business decreased 5% in the second quarter.
Within endovascular our biopsy products saw a nice rebound this quarter achieving 5% growth over the prior year.
The environment remains difficult here but we saw some improvement in our competitive positioning especially internationally.
Sales in our peripheral PTA line increased 8% including 5% growth in the United States.
Sales in our Vena Cava Filter line were up 3% in Q2.
We've seen the sales dollars become a bit more stable over the last year after several years of decline in this product line.
We told you at the analyst meeting that our new Denali filter was launched last month about 6 months ahead of schedule and we expect that to contribute to improved growth in the coming quarters.
Our stent business declined 23% in Q2 almost the exact percentage of growth we saw a year ago due to a competitor's quality issue especially in Japan.
The space remains highly competitive but the comp should ease a little in the back half of the year.
So let's now go to urology.
Total net sales were $191.7 million up 2% versus Q2 of last year on an as reported and constant currency basis.
The United States business was down 2% while internationally we grew 11%.
Our targeted temperature management products continue to increase sequentially with the year-over-year growth north of 20% domestically and internationally.
Our basic drainage business was up 3% globally in Q2 and up 1% in the United States.
Our I.C.
Foley business was down 1% globally and down 4% in the United States consistent with recent trends here.
Our continence business was down 17% in Q2 driven by continued pressure in the United States on the women's health procedures.
This global product family has shrunk to less than 1% of our total sales and we expect to see continued declines in the future.
Sales in urological specialties were up 9% in Q2 as the largest product line in the category our brachytherapy business was up strong percent with strong results internationally.
And finally in this category stand-alone sales of our StatLock catheter stabilization line decreased 8% in Q2.
Now let's go on to oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $214.1 million an increase of 8% on both an as reported and constant currency basis over Q2 last year.
Geographically net sales in the United States were 5%.
Internationally sales were up 15%.
Our port business was up 4% versus Q2 last year.
Our PICC revenue was up 10% this quarter with strong growth both in the United States and outside the United States.
We are pleased to see double-digit growth again on our largest product line.
In the United States we're improving the quality of care with new paradigm-changing technology.
And internationally we're improving the quality of care by expanding the use of PICCs in place of peripheral IVs for those patients who require longer-term access.
As we told you at the analyst meeting we see significant growth opportunities ahead here.
Our Vascular Access ultrasound product line was up 12% this quarter with over half of the growth coming from international markets.
And to close out this category our dialysis access product line was up 5% this quarter.
Let's conclude our discussions with the surgical specialties business.
Total net sales in this category were $120.0 million up 8% on both an as reported and constant currency basis.
United States sales were up 7% and international sales were up 11% this quarter.
Our surgical sealant products continue to build sequentially and are driving most of the growth in the category.
Our soft tissue repair business grew 4% in Q2 slightly better than recent quarters.
We continue to see stable growth in synthetics.
And the last 2 quarters have shown a return to growth in our natural tissue products up 8% this quarter compared to the second quarter of 2012.
Our hernia fixation business declined 9% this quarter consistent with recent experience.
Closing out the surgical category in Q2 our performance irrigation business was down 10%.
So this concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to Chris Holland for a look at the P&amp;L.
Thanks John.
Let's start with the items that affect the comparability of our results between the periods.
In Q2 we took a net charge for product liability of approximately $293 million primarily driven by women's health litigation.
We also had acquisition-related items of $1.9 million $3.2 million in asset impairments and a $1.4 million reversal of a prior restructuring accrual.
The P&amp;L impact for these items is detailed in the notes to the financial statements and the reconciliation accompanying our Q2 earnings press release.
Now let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $463.3 million or 61% of sales for Q2.
On an adjusted basis GP was 61.1% of sales down 40 basis points from the prior year quarter.
We told you that we would see a significant rebound from Q1 and we did with a 70-basis-point sequential improvement.
We expect to see continued sequential improvement in the coming quarters and we're on track with our projections for the year excluding the timing of Gore royalties.
New amortization of intangibles relating to transactions closed in the last 12 months cost us about 20 basis points year-over-year in this quarter.
Price was unfavorable at 140 basis points on the revenue line and 50 basis points in GP consistent with our expectations for the year.
SG&amp;A expenses were $226.3 million for the quarter or 29.8% of sales.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A as a percentage of net sales was 29.7% or 210 basis points higher than Q2 of 2012 with approximately 90 basis points coming from the medical device excise tax and approximately 50 basis points from new deals.
We also continue to drive our investments in emerging markets to access faster growth and shift the mix of our portfolio.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $66.1 million for the second quarter or 8.7% of sales on a reported basis.
On an adjusted basis R&amp;D expense as a percentage of sales for the second quarter was 8.6% of sales which is up 190 basis points as a percent of sales compared to the prior year.
Combined with the emerging market investments fueling the R&amp;D engine is critical to our investment plan and we are doing just that.
Interest expense was $11.1 million for the second quarter up as expected from a year ago because of our bond offering in Q4 of 2012.
Other income and expense was $295.7 million of expense for the second quarter as reported and $2.1 million of expense on an adjusted basis driven by foreign exchange.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 26.8% on track with our full year guidance.
Diluted shares for the period were 81.1 million and we repurchased approximately 1.7 million shares during the second quarter.
The net result is adjusted EPS of $1.42 per share above the range we provided for the quarter as sales came in a little better than we had expected.
The balance sheet as of June 30 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of $868.3 million versus $905.3 million at March 31.
For the quarter accounts receivables days were up 0.9 days and inventory days were down 4.9 days driven by moving the electrophysiology inventory to assets held for sale.
Capital expenditures totaled $17.4 million for the quarter.
On the liability side total debt was $1.5 billion as of June 30 up slightly from $1.4 billion at March 31.
Debt to total cap at the end of the second quarter was about 49% and total shareholder investment was $1.6 billion at June 30 2013.
Now moving to financial guidance.
For Q3 we are expecting constant currency sales growth between 1% and 3% excluding any royalties from Gore.
Our original sales guidance for the year was 0% to 3% growth excluding the Gore royalties and we expect to be squarely within that range.
With respect to the Gore timing as Tim said we still expect cash in hand prior to the end of 2013.
From an EPS standpoint excluding items affecting comparability we see the third quarter in the range of $1.37 to $1.41 per share.
To be clear this guidance reflects the fact that we don't expect to have final resolution of the Gore matter this month.
And as we previously discussed that reduces adjusted EPS by about $0.30 per share for the quarter.
With respect to full year EPS guidance we'll be in a better position to update you once we have seen the rulings from the District Court.
Also I'll just finish by reminding you that in conjunction with the announcement of the divestiture of our EP business we told you that would be about $0.05 dilutive to 2013 EPS assuming a late Q3 close.
With that let me turn you back to Tim.
Thanks Chris.
That does conclude the formal part of the presentation.
I'll turn the call back to the moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A session at this point.
[Operator Instructions].
[Operator Instructions] And the first question is from Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on the acceleration in the international oncology business.
This was obviously a very strong quarter.
Maybe can you just give us a little more color as to why it was so strong and the sustainability? Well we had -- Mike we had pretty good performance across the board in our International businesses.
As you know we had -- as I mentioned in the comments biopsy was particularly strong internationally overall for the quarter.
And I guess I would also say that the United States in terms of sequentially performed very nicely.
PTA was also very strong internationally in a really good good cross-section both in Europe as well as in Japan.
We talked a little bit about Vena Cava did have a positive momentum overall internationally although we also said that revenue picked up in the United States.
And I'd say in general we saw we had good performance across the board within the segment.
I think -- Mike did you ask about vascular or oncology? Research Division</strong> Oncology I think.
Oncology? Sorry about that.
If you look at oncology we had a very strong port performance internationally good performance in the United States but very strong internationally and extremely strong international performance on PICCs with really led by emerging markets.
And our next question is from Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So I guess I'll ask the litigation question just to get a little more clarity on some things.
First of all on the pelvic floor the commentary that you made.
Is this your best estimate on the total liability and when do you think we'll know for sure what that liability might be? And then on Gore just curious as to your take on what's taking so long for the ruling and does that have any implications on what you think the ruling might be? Sure Bob.
It's Chris.
I'll cover the women's health litigation issue.
The accounting rules as you know really drive the recognition of a liability.
And so at this point in time this is our current estimate to settle both claims received as well as our estimate of future claims net of recoveries.
So we're taking into consideration a whole host of different factors in trying to arrive at the size of the liability today.
There's certainly not a way for us to say with absolute certainty that this is the final number.
So this is an estimate at a point in time based on all the information that we do have.
I would highlight the fact this is a noncash liability at this point.
To the extent down the road this becomes a cash outlay for the company.
These products were all manufactured outside the U.S.
And so to the extent there's a cash -- ultimately a cash outlay we'll be able to utilize our OUS cash balance.
So there's no impact here in anyway with respect to our investment plan or acquisition strategy or use of the Gore proceeds our share buyback program or our ability to continue to invest in the business.
So I just wanted to be clear on that piece.
And Bob it's Tim.
Relative to your Gore question the judge is under no timeline to write an opinion on this or make a decision and there's nothing we read into that one way or the other.
I would tell you that based on the way things have progressed so far we like where we stand at this point in time.
But there's nothing to be read into any outcome relative to timing here.
And the next question is from Dave Turkaly.
He is with JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> And just to switch over back to the EP divestiture.
Can you just -- I know you walked us through and I know there is a capital component there.
But can you discuss why you think this won't have any other impact sort of on the other lines that you're going to maintain? Sure.
When you look at the call points and we are a very call-point-oriented company the EP call point was a fairly discrete call point.
In general it's tagged in the cardiology.
The only other products -- as you know we're into the peripheral vascular aspect of that.
There are some interventional cardiologists that do those procedures.
However a very large part of the procedures are done by interventional radiologists and also endovascular surgeons.
And those specialists that would do those peripheral procedures have virtually nothing -- in fact I can't think of one that has anything to do with electrophysiology.
And next we'll go to the line of Matthew Taylor with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess maybe just to follow up on that question.
I was curious in terms of use of the capital you talked a lot in the past about plans for the Gore settlement and you specified with the EP divestiture that you really wanted to focus on areas where you can be #1 or #2.
Can you talk a little bit about areas where you're looking to invest more into? You've done some recent deals in surgery and vascular.
Are there other things that you'd look to divest and where you really want to focus? Yes this is Tim again.
We've been -- and we've maintained what we've been saying strategically: to grow faster you have to invest in faster-growing areas.
For a long time a big component of our strategy is you've got to have this product leadership and we defined that as being #1 or #2 which we are in 80% of our revenues.
So simply stated we want to invest more in those areas where we can be #1 or #2 that are in segments or in geographies growing faster than we're growing today.
As it relates to other divestitures we've said for a long time now that it's always easier to divest the business than it is to divest the product line.
The last time we divested anything of significance was our endoscopic business back in 2003 -- 2004.
And that again was a self-contained business.
So the list of things that if somebody made a call and said "Hey we'd love to buy this product line from you." We do have that list.
But it takes a lot of effort and activity to divest something and we'd rather have management's time and effort focused on growth.
But we do have that list as well.
So I think we're in good shape strategically and it's consistent with what we've said over the years here.
And our next question is from Matthew Dodds with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> To follow on Mike's question oncology being really strong outside the U.S.
surgery was as well.
It was up over 10% and it was much better than last quarter.
Same with oncology.
And Neomend was in last quarter's results for surgery.
So should we think about those 2 businesses the acceleration being mostly emerging market driven? Because I didn't get the sense Europe improved that much? Is that a fair statement? I'll handle it kind of on a strategic level and I'll let John handle the details.
As we've said all along and as we've looked at emerging markets it's not like we give the 15 000 SKU playbook to every country manager and say "Go sell everything." So there is a very focused effort in terms of where we put these resources in the emerging markets.
Oncology and surgical are 2 of those areas.
So you're starting to see the execution and the payoff for those investments with a faster growth rate in those segments and those markets so that's all by design at a strategic level.
And I'll let John comment on the specifics.
If you look at oncology as I mentioned earlier both ports and PICCs were strong around the world.
Ports were strong -- very strong in emerging markets very strong in Japan and PICCs were very strong in emerging markets.
Good performance in Europe in PICCs where we had good double-digit growth and there was an uptick in the growth in the United States on PICCs where we saw a significant step in the right direction.
So it was really a pretty good performance across the board.
I'd say in surgical in general we saw good performance around the world nice step-up that we had this month in terms of our sealant product lines.
We really saw a really nice breakout quarter for us starting to get a traction in that across the board.
And I'd say also we had in the general soft tissue repair good performance in emerging markets and a very strong performance in Japan.
So I think we're seeing pretty good balance across the board in these spaces.
And our next question is from Brooks West with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> A question for John Weiland on the vascular franchise.
John you said in your prepared remarks that the stent impact would ease in the second half.
I'm just wondering if we should expect that franchise to get back to flat or even positive growth in the second half.
And then secondly I wonder if you'd give some color on how the Lutonix European launch has gone? I think it's going to be tough to get back into a flat or growth in stents even though the comps eased.
That's for sure.
I mean there's a lot of pressure in that business right now particularly a little pressure from a pricing standpoint.
However I would say that if you look at our unit growth going back to 2011 where the market would have been very stable with all the competitors in we have seen nice unit growth since 2011 in stents.
But it is going to be difficult to get back into a growth or even flat in the second half of the year from my standpoint [ph].
In terms of Lutonix we're right on plan where we expected to be in terms of our launch with Lutonix in Europe.
Very good feedback from the clinicians on the product line and our entry into that business which I think allows us to be very bullish about what the future of Lutonix looks like.
Research Division</strong> So just a quick follow-up John if I could.
If stents don't get back to growth can the vascular franchise grow? Or should we think about that as one in the same? Well we've guided -- this is Tim sorry.
We guided for the year vascular minus 2% to 1% positive for the total product category so that's where we see it going for the year.
And our next question is from Joanne Wuensch with BMO Capital Markets.
Something caught my ear when you were talking about the Gore case talking about willful infringement.
Does that get handed down at the same time or is that lagged? And is there any way to quantify what that might be? Sure.
So there's 2 discrete pieces right the infringement piece as Tim says is $819 million through March.
We expect another payment next week for the June quarter so that continues to grow.
The infringement piece is a static $206 million -- excuse me the willfulness is $206 million of stagnant damages.
And Judge Murguia heard oral arguments on the release of the infringement funds on the willfulness issue as to whether or not Gore was willful or not as well as a third motion related to a new trial.
So we expect that she will rule on those 3 motions: again the release of the infringement damages to us; a ruling on willfulness; and then a ruling on whether or not if they are not found willful are they due a new trial? So there are 3 separate rulings we anticipate her ruling on.
Okay.
And then can you just give us your view on the big picture volume price what's really going on out there.
My sense is we're looking at pretty stable med tech market but I'd love your view.
Sure.
We haven't seen -- now I'll refer these comments specifically to the U.S.
We haven't seen a whole lot of dynamic change in the marketplace.
There's certainly nothing we call a trend.
We obviously pay attention to the public hospital reported data.
We've seen what's been reported there.
So I don't see any dynamics that would cause a lot of change in what the trends have been there.
Relative to price we still have headwinds in terms of price.
As John alluded to when he was talking about the stent question in those areas where we have more competition there seems to be more price and I don't see that abating really at all either.
But it has kind of settled in in a fairly narrow range for us.
We're not seeing maybe some of the volatility in price that we've seen in years past.
And next we go to the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Chris just maybe a clarification on third quarter guidance.
I think I heard you say 1% to 3% constant currency and there obviously was some evidence of momentum in multiple businesses in the quarter -- in the second quarter.
If you kind of work through the math there I wonder does that number include or exclude EP? And if so what is the impact? And then specifically if that 1% to 3% is constant currency it implies a deceleration into the third quarter if my math is right.
Are there any sort of onetime dynamics that sort of drive that trend given you're basically saying you're comfortable with the year? So right now we're assuming a late Q3 close from EP -- for EP so that wouldn't really materially impact that number in the quarter.
And just to be clear obviously we round the 3% in Q2 but it's just over 2.5%.
So it's sort of a weak 3% in Q2.
And so while I think we just commented on a stable environment we continue to be cautious.
We continue to be a bit cautious about Europe and the pricing environment in a couple of categories is tough.
And as John said the stent comps get easier in the back half although Q3 in particular in Japan continues to be pretty tough.
So we think 1% to 3% growth rates similar to Q2 are reasonable at this point in time and we don't see any reason to be more bullish than that.
Research Division</strong> And Chris regardless of what happens with Gore your plans for the business and your investment plans in the back half of the year really don't change a whole bunch.
It's just a question whether the royalty hits the P&amp;L or not? That's exactly right David.
As we said we're going down this road.
We're committed to it.
And the only noise in '13 as we see it is really P&amp;L geography.
It doesn't change the NPV of what we're talking about here.
It's just going to change what the '13 P&amp;L looks like in terms of a larger bolus and onetime gain versus having a quarter or 2 or not in the royalty line from a revenue standpoint.
So I don't want to minimize the '13 P&amp;L at all but this is more about executing against a multiyear investment strategy with '13 being the critical first year of it.
And our next question is from David (sic) [Jason] Wittes with Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> Actually it's Jason.
But the question I have was about emerging markets and specifically should I assume that much of investment there is front-end loaded so it might take even a couple of years before a lot of that -- the top -- the upside of the top line actually flows to the bottom line? Or should I assume that it will come earlier and it's something that we can basically see immediately falling to the bottom line? Well in emerging markets -- this is John Weiland.
In emerging markets we're focused on adding over 220 positions in those markets this year the majority of which are sales-related positions.
And as you know as you add sales people it takes a while for them to get trained get accustomed to their territories and start having an impact.
But there is an impact out of the blocks especially considering the fact that these are in many cases entirely new entrants in the geographical spaces that we may have not had much penetration in in the past.
So we look at it as a building process.
You add these people we've added almost 160 of them already this year.
It's a building process throughout the year.
And as they get more productive they start making greater and greater contributions.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify that in other words we should see -- as we approach 2015 we should continue to see gradual incremental improvements from emerging markets not sort of big investments up to 2015 then falling into the bottom line and then finally seeing in 2015 a lot of the investments really starting to pay off and sort of a big bolus of profitability.
The first way is probably the right way to think about it? I think what you're going to see is a gradual ramp based on the productivity of these sales people.
Then by far our largest investment year in this is the year 2013.
And our next question is from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted just to come back to some of the comments on the stent business specifically I know that earlier this year there were some potential concerns regarding a drug-alluding competitor.
That competitor seems to have had quite a bit of challenge getting to market.
So I hope -- can you maybe just provide a little more detail on the competitive dynamics there what's happening from an end market perspective in terms of unit volumes that is potentially making the environment more competitive from a pricing standpoint without a disruptive player on the market? Well I think the best way to sum that up would be as one player that was off the market last year got back onto the market this year they were very aggressive on price in trying to take back share from their original customer base.
The rest of it would be a lot of noise in addition to that but I think that would be the most significant issue that happened in terms of price.
And again we would think that would settle out here over the next few quarters.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe just a follow-up on the surgical specialties business which had a very nice quarter overall and probably seeing some of the most momentum it had in some time.
You did call out hernia down 9% in the quarter consistent with recent trend.
Anything to call out that might corroborate a stabilization there or a turn in that business? And what do you think it would take to get that part of the franchise back on track? I think what you're referring to is fixation.
Research Division</strong> Yes sorry fixation.
That was down 9% in the quarter.
And our viewpoint is that's completely going to be focused on new products that we have in the pipeline.
We've talked a little bit about that.
We have a second half '13 launch and a first half 2014 launch in that space that we are very bullish on.
So that's going to be what will change the dynamics in that business for us.
And our next question is from Rick Wise with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions sort of housekeeping.
The shares were a bit lower than we looked for.
Just remind us where you are with your share repurchase program and what we should be expecting for the year.
And were there -- the usual number of selling days in the quarter any extra fewer more? Sure.
With respect to days Rick we were flat days in the quarter.
Right? We were short a couple in Q1 that actually in Europe we won't get back.
So for the full year we'll be short a few days in Europe but Q2 is a clean quarter from a days standpoint.
And to remind you we actually don't have a share purchase plan or program that we commit to you guys.
What we've I think done consistently and what we've now done so far this year is really depending on other uses of cash strategic uses of cash that's our priority.
But if we don't have opportunities to close into we'll return that cash to shareholders through buybacks.
And that's what we've done so far this year.
We feel good about the flexibility we have in the balance sheet as we look at the back half of the year and some of the opportunities Tim mentioned from an M&amp;A standpoint we're excited about.
And so buybacks are driven by other strategic uses of cash.
And absent those we'll buy back shares.
And so I'm not going to tell you how far we're into a plan for the year because the plan for the year is again partly dependent on how much M&amp;A activity we have in the pipeline.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
But should we use 81 for the year? Is that a reasonable place to be at this point? Yes I think the one -- the other caveat is obviously the Gore-related buyback commitments that we've made are going to be dependent on the timing of the final resolution and the receipt of the funds.
So that -- as we've talked about the $0.30 a quarter slippage $0.05 or so is due to the fact that we won't be buying the shares as quickly as we might have anticipated.
So I think we will -- the EP divestiture and those proceeds again depending on other M&amp;A opportunities would likely be deployed against additional buybacks in the back half.
So I don't want to -- I just don't want to commit to a number Rick because there's a number of things that could change that in the next 6 months.
And our next question is from Matthew O'Brien with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick clarification question or comment for John Weiland.
You mentioned 220 reps in -- or folks over in emerging markets in 2013.
You guys said on the analyst -- or at the analyst meeting it was going to be closer to 300.
Is there some reason for the delta there? No I thought the difference is that it would be 300 across Bard worldwide 220 focused on the major emerging markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then just one real quick one for Chris.
I think last quarter you mentioned gross margin expectations somewhere closer to 61.5% and it came in modestly below that in the quarter.
Is there something there that you can provide a little bit more color on for the shortfall? And then just how should we think about that came [ph] to that metric this year with and without Gore? Sure sure.
So again there's a number of moving pieces inside gross margin as we've talked about.
The guidance for the full year excluding Gore was a 60- to 70-basis-point decline in GP so call it 61.3 to 61.4 for the year pre-Gore.
Every quarter of Gore is worth 35 to 45 basis points of incremental GP.
So put Gore to the side and we're talking about 60 to 70 basis points down driven by FX driven by currency driven by price and then partly offset by our cost improvement plans which again gate in over the course of the year at different rates.
So we expect sequential improvement in Q3 more significant sequential improvement in Q4 that gets us in the range consistent with what we guided for the year.
So again we're tracking on our cost improvement plans.
We may even be investing a little bit more as we see opportunities in front of us.
And so there's nothing unusual or unexpected as we look at how we're trending through Q2 and through the back half.
And our next question is from Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to the topic for settlement the accrual that you had.
I know it's sort of hard to predict but when might be I guess this turning into an actual cash outlay or when would you have perhaps a little bit greater sense on what the final amounts you may owe? Maybe so I'm assuming given the accounting rules this is probably more of a minimum number that you would expect? Yes again I wouldn't necessarily characterize it.
It's based on everything we know including our estimates of future claims as well.
So this is our best estimate at this point in time.
We continue to defend ourselves vigorously as you probably know Kristen.
And there's going to be a number of bellwether trials for us in the coming months with the first actually starting again on Monday -- next Monday the 29th in West Virginia.
So I think it's impossible to predict the timing.
This is again really an accounting-driven event in terms of us determining we have a probable and reasonably estimate-able liability which is all we've now concluded.
And we have to see how this plays out.
There's going to be a lot of moving pieces.
And the one thing I can tell you it won't be this exact number.
But it's impossible for me to tell you anything more or to really predict the timing.
Again I think the most important factor is when and if it does become a cash outlay it's not in any way going to impact the strategic flexibility or focus of the company.
Research Division</strong> And then Tim I think in your original remarks you had mentioned that you guys were going to be looking at doing more acquisitions.
Can you just maybe remind us how you're thinking about that with the divestiture of the EP business? Are you looking kind of still do more tuck-ins? Or would you be more willing to do something a little bit more significant in size since you'll be having some of the cash inflows from that divestiture? Yes frankly the impact of both the Gore cash and the EP divestiture has no impact at all on the way we look at doing acquisition size or type.
So I wouldn't expect to see anything different from what we've done historically due to that at all.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And I'll sneak one last in.
On the EP business can you maybe just help us get a better perspective on the margins? And as you divested it sounds like we'll see the impact more in the fourth quarter and then in 2014 what that could do from the gross margin perspective as well as operating margins.
Sure.
The margins for the business are actually slightly above the corporate average.
But given the size of that business relative to the total it's not going to be big enough for it really to be material to the margin.
But just nominally they are accretive to the corporate average.
But obviously there are a whole lot of other strategic reasons for us to make the decision we made.
Just to -- we will continue to be providing a range of services for an extended period of time in conjunction with the divestiture.
So really the final impact of it we're still continuing to work through as we look at Q4 and going into 2014.
But from a GP standpoint I wouldn't think of it as being a material impact to the corporate average.
Research Division</strong> And nonoperating margins are they also slightly above? Yes slightly above.
The GP accretion really flows through the operating margin accretion.
But again given the size of it it's not going to move the needle.
And the next question is from Josh Jennings with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just back on the product liability charge and my understanding is that it's primarily for the women's health product litigation.
Can you just explain why hernia and filter class action suits are not included in this charge? And is that because the expected outcome is a positive one for Bard? Yes we are disclosing this and describing it as a product liability charge.
So it's not only women's health it's primarily women's health related.
But intentionally we don't want to signal to any folks out there specifically what amount relates to what product category necessarily.
So it's again broader than women's health but primarily related to women's health.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just on -- you commented that you won't make up any extra selling days in Europe but the selling day lost in the U.S.
last -- in Q1 do you make that up in Q3 or in Q4? Yes I think it's sort of 1/2 a day each maybe but it's not a full -- yes I'm just looking at -- give me 1 sec.
Yes so we'll make up the day in the U.S.
in Q4.
So the full year will be on equivalent days basis in the U.S.
and 2 days short in Europe.
[Operator Instructions] And next we'll go to the line of Robert Goldman with CL King.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to follow up on the question on aggregate price.
I believe you mentioned you thought aggregate prices would be down about 140 basis points this year.
And I believe at least by my records they were down 140 basis points in 2012 and 70 basis points in 2011.
As you look forward how are you guys modeling price increases or decreases? And if you're modeling something different than what's now happening 140 basis points of decline annually could you share with us why you're assuming that would be different whether it's higher or lower and what is it that you're seeing that would make it different than the current trend line? Bob this is Tim.
It's a complicated answer because there's price in a bunch of different countries based on a lot of different things.
In the United States a significant percentage of the business is on contract.
Those tend to be multiyear contracts.
There is some flexibility that various divisions have below that that we don't necessarily have projected visibility to ahead of time if you will so decisions made in the field.
And that puts -- we can book end it one way or the other but we can't predict it exactly.
And then internationally more so on the developed markets there's tenders and things like that.
So we kind of look at trend lines we tend to look at trends for multiple-year quarters here when we do our analytics.
So we model out what we think is going to be the most accurate representation based on the data we announced as we have at any given time.
The only thing I can tell you about that is it's not going to be right because of all the different dynamics the various SKUs involved and the way pricing decisions are made in the field.
So beyond that it's tough to give you a more clarifying answer then that's how we do it.
But we certainly haven't seen anything that would lead us to believe it's going to get worse at this point in time and we haven't seen anything that leads us to believe it's going to get significantly better.
So I think it's status quo as we stand here today.
So Bob just to your point we saw what we saw in 2012.
We budgeted for that similar level of price in 2013.
We expect that that's we're going to end up.
And the base plan that we've talked about on a multiyear basis does not assume any improvement in core pricing especially in the U.S.
Obviously new products like the drug-coated balloon I mean there's a mix issue related to new products.
But we're not assuming in '13 or in '14 or beyond that all of a sudden we see a better pricing environment? Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just as a follow-up to that just so I'm clear.
I understand you believe it won't get worse.
But should we assume that you're assuming 140-basis-points decline every year or from the current prices sort of a stabilization of price? Yes we don't give guidance beyond really a year at a time specifically Bob so very tough to say.
I guess the only other point I would add there is as you know the majority -- when I say majority 75% of our revenue come from products priced at a $500 or less price point.
So we don't get a lot of sways one way or the other with reimbursement decisions coming out of CMS or DRG code adjustments things like that.
We are very much market-based relative to what's happening in the procedures.
That concludes our Q&amp;A session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Bard's management for closing or additional comments.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
I'd like to thank everybody for taking the time to join us today for the call.
And as always I'd like to close by thanking Bard employees around the world for their commitment and dedication and execution.
So with that we'll talk again in the next quarter.
And that concludes our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the CR Bard Inc.
Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Christopher S.
Holland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information in Bard's June 30 2013 Form 10-Q and the information under the caption Risk Factors in Bard's 2012 10-K including disclosure of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance of the company and its individual product franchises.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings press release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of October 22 2013 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information.
Unless otherwise noted all comparisons are to the prior year period.
At this time I will turn the call over to Mr.
Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Lori and good afternoon everybody.
I'd like to welcome you to Bard's third quarter 2013 earnings call.
And thanks to all of you for taking the time to join us today.
I would expect the presentation portion of the call would last about 30 minutes.
The agenda today will go as follows: I'll begin with an overview of the Q3 results for 2013; John Weiland our President and COO will review third quarter product line revenue; Chris Holland our Senior VP and CFO will review the third quarter income statement and balance sheet as well as our outlook for Q4; and then John DeFord our Senior VP Science Technology and Clinical Affairs will give you an update on our product development pipeline; and then finally we'll close with the Q&amp;A.
Third quarter 2013 net sales totaled $758 million.
That's up 5% over Q3 of last year on an as reported basis and up 4% on a constant currency basis.
The currency impact for the quarter versus the same quarter last year was favorable by about 50 basis points.
And the impact of acquisitions on the Q3 revenue growth was less than 100 basis points consistent with our prior guidance.
Net income for Q3 was $93.2 million and diluted earnings per share were $1.15.
Excluding items that affected the comparability of results between periods which Chris will cover later third quarter 2013 net income and diluted EPS were $122.3 million and $1.50 down 14% and 9% respectively.
The overperformance versus expectations on the bottom line was driven by stronger sales on the top line and controlled cost management.
While it's always nice to beat expectations the real objective here is above-market revenue growth on a sustained basis.
And while we're pleased with the direction and trajectory of the investment plan we're very focused on converting those plans into actual results.
Looking at the revenue growth geographically compared to the same quarter last year.
Third quarter net sales in the U.S.
grew 3% which is better than it's been recently but we're not prepared to declare it a trend given Europe's growth dynamics.
Internationally we grew 6% on a constant currency basis with Europe growing 3% and Japan growing 4% while our other international businesses grew 11%.
Emerging markets represented 8% of total sales for the quarter.
As you know we're focused on shifting the mix of our portfolio to faster revenue growth segments and that's starting to get some traction.
We're doing this through a combination of targeted internal investments in emerging markets and R&amp;D and we're also using business development to acquire technology platforms in faster-growing market segments.
In this quarter we announced 3 acquisitions that we expect to improve our growth profile on a sustained basis.
The projected double-digit revenue growth of the acquired sales from the Loma Vista Medafor and the Rochester deals that we discussed on September 4 essentially replaces the declining EP sales and provides us with stronger growth platforms moving forward.
The Loma Vista and Medafor deals have closed.
We expect the Rochester purchase and the EP divestiture to each close in the next 30 days.
I would also add in Q3 we acquired an early-stage technology for application in our oncology business that we recorded as an in-process research and development expense.
So without question we're continuing to realign the portfolio and we're very pleased with our results this quarter on several fronts.
You'll hear more encouraging news from John DeFord later on the call.
But we won't to be happy until we regain our position in the sector with sustained above-market revenue growth and profitability.
The events of this quarter represent positive stepping stones down this path and we're focused on the next steps to continue the transition.
Finally we're pleased with the rulings from Judge Murguia on the Gore matter last week.
We expect Gore to appeal those rulings so the process could potentially move back to the Court of Appeals once again.
As we told you forecasting precise timing on this case is difficult but the results to this point lead us to believe that it's really a question of when and not if on the release of the funds for the base infringement and the continuing royalty stream.
With that let me turn you over to John Weiland for a review of our product line revenue.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start let me point out that I'll be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior year period on a constant currency basis unless noted otherwise.
So let's begin with vascular.
Growth in this category was 2% for the quarter or 4% as reported with total net sales of $209.9 million.
Our United States business was down 1% for the quarter while internationally we grew 6%.
Our electrophysiology sales were up 7% this quarter with EP LabSystems against an easy comp from a year ago.
Our disposable EP product lines were down 3%.
As Tim said we expect to close the sale of this business to Boston Scientific within the next month.
Sales in our surgical graft category were down 4% in Q3 within the range of recent experience.
Our endovascular business increased 2% in the third quarter.
Within endovascular our biopsy products grew 10% this quarter compared to Q3 last year.
While we have seen some positive momentum recently especially in emerging markets Q3 of 2012 was one of the easier comps for this product family.
Sales in our peripheral PTA line increased 11%.
Our Lutonix drug-coated balloon sales in Europe were a key driver of the global growth in this category.
Sales in our vena cava filter line grew 13% in Q3 which marks the best sales growth in this product line since the first quarter of 2009.
We said that our new Denali filter should get us back to growth in this category.
And with the launch 6 months earlier than anticipated we're pleased with the quick start.
Our stent business was down 13% in Q3.
I'll remind you that it was Q3 of last year when our competitor with a quality issue came back on the market.
So while some tough comps are behind us we expect continued headwinds here as we've told you that we're seeing significant price pressure driven by the competitor's return to the market and the increased number of competitors now on-label in the SFA.
So let's go to urology.
Total net sales were $193.7 million up 3% versus Q3 of last year on both a constant currency and an as reported basis.
The United States business grew 2% while internationally we grew 6%.
Our targeted temperature management products continue to provide healthy double-digit growth both in the United States and internationally.
Our basic drainage business was up 3% globally in Q3 and up 2% in the United States.
Our I.C.
Foley business was up 1% globally which is the first positive number in almost 2 years.
That performance was driven by Japan and Europe as the United States was down 4% consistent with recent results.
Our continence business declined 9% in the third quarter and we expect continued declines going forward.
Sales in the urological specialties business grew 1% in Q3 with our brachytherapy business flat for the quarter.
And finally in this category standalone sales of our StatLock catheter stabilization line grew 1% in Q3.
So let's now move on to oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $215.5 million an increase of 6% on both a constant currency and as reported basis over the third quarter last year.
Geographically net sales in the United States were up 4% and international sales were up 11%.
Our port business increased 4% again this quarter.
Our PICC revenue was up 7% in Q3 which included continued strong uptake of our 3CG product.
And vascular access ultrasound product line was up 3% this quarter and our dialysis access product line was up 10% over Q3 of last year.
Now let's wrap things up with our surgical specialties business.
Total net sales in this category were $118.1 million up 9% on a constant currency basis and up 10% on an as reported basis.
United States sales were up 12% and international sales grew 3% this quarter.
This category benefited from the surgical sealant sales acquired from Neomend and we're very pleased with the trajectory of this product line as we anniversary the acquisition in Q4.
Our soft tissue repair business grew 5% in Q3.
Within soft tissue our synthetic ventral hernia repair products grew double digits while our natural tissue products grew 2% in the quarter.
Within our biologic hernia products we continue to see a shift in mix from human tissue to xenograft when compared to a year ago.
While this is a headwind from an ASP perspective we believe that our presence and competitive position with our xenograft product is strong and we have the most comprehensive product offering within soft tissue repair more broadly across all materials.
Our hernia fixation business declined 3% this quarter.
We have some new fixation products we expect in 2014.
But before that we face an especially tough comp in Q4.
And closing out the surgical category our performance irrigation business was down 14% in Q3.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to Chris Holland.
Thank you John.
Let's start with the items that affect the comparability of our results between periods.
In Q3 we had acquisition-related items of $33.7 million the largest item being the IP R&amp;D expense that Tim talked about and we also had costs related to our divestiture of EP of $9.7 million.
We took a $3.4 million charge for an asset impairment and had a $2.2 million reversal of tax accruals related to an item identified in a prior period.
P&amp;L impact for these items is detailed in the notes to the financial statements and the reconciliation accompanying our Q3 earnings release.
Now let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $466.1 million or 61.5% of sales for Q3 down 80 basis points from the prior year but up sequentially from Q2 as we projected.
New amortization of intangibles related to transactions that closed in the last 12 months was about 20 basis points again this quarter.
Price was unfavorable at 80 basis points on the revenue line and approximately 30 basis points in GP.
This metric can bounce around a little.
And at this point we assume there's been no real change in the environment and still expect the pricing pressure on the revenue line to be in -- to be between 100 and 150 basis points going forward.
So as we projected our gross margins have continued to improve through 2013.
As you know we have a very active Q4 with the divestiture of our EP business and integrating 3 meaningful acquisitions.
The incremental amortization start-up costs and early investments to bring the new facilities into our quality and operating systems will have a significant temporary impact resulting in higher cost of sales in Q4.
We're also making some targeted investments that are designed to help drive improved leverage through the P&amp;L starting next year.
SG&amp;A expenses were $223.9 million for the quarter or 29.5% of sales.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A as a percentage of net sales was 29.1% or 210 basis points higher than Q3 of 2012 driven by our increased investment in emerging markets as well as the new medical device excise tax.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled 9 -- $99.4 million or 13.1% of sales on a reported basis for the third quarter.
On an adjusted basis R&amp;D was $66.1 million or 8.7% of sales which is up 180 basis points as a percent of sales from the prior year due to our investment plan.
Interest expense was $11.2 million for the third quarter up as expected from a year ago because of our bond offering which we completed in Q4 of 2012.
Other income and expense was $12.6 million of expense for the third quarter as reported and $2.7 million of expense on an adjusted basis driven primarily by foreign exchange.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 26.2% in line with our expectations excluding the Gore royalty.
Diluted shares for the period were 80 million shares even and we repurchased approximately 2 million shares in the third quarter.
The net result is adjusted EPS of $1.50 a share well above the guidance range we provided for the quarter.
As Tim said this is the result of the combination of higher-than-expected sales as well as disciplined cost management.
The balance sheet as of September 30 2013 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of $800.7 million versus $868.3 million as of June 30.
For the quarter accounts receivable days were down 1.2 days and inventory days were up 0.7 days.
Capital expenditures totaled $16.7 million for the quarter.
On the liability side total debt was $1.5 billion as of September 30 no change from June 30.
And debt to total cap at the end of the third quarter was about 50%.
Total shareholder investment was $1.5 billion at September 30 2013.
Now moving to financial guidance.
For Q4 we are expecting constant currency sales growth between 1% and 3%.
This includes the impact of the Q4 acquisitions and the divestiture of EP which essentially offset each other in the quarter.
Although our Q3 organic revenue growth was a bit stronger than that we remain cautious about the sales environment particularly in the U.S.
We have seen the same survey data that you have that suggests no reliable improvement in physician office visits or hospital admissions and we have some tough comps in Q4 specifically in biopsy and soft tissue repair.
Of course recognizing the Gore royalty as revenue now looks like a 2014 event.
From an EPS standpoint excluding items affecting comparability our 2013 guidance after our acquisition call on September 4 including the $0.10 of dilution from EP and the acquisitions and excluding Gore was between $5.55 and $5.60.
On the back of the Q3 beat we are raising the full year 2013 adjusted EPS guidance to between $5.70 and $5.75 a share which puts Q4 between $1.34 and $1.39 per share.
Q4 is obviously a little muddy with EP moving out of the P&amp;L and the adjustments we are making around that while at the same time integrating the new businesses and the start-up costs associated with those transactions.
We're very pleased that with all of these moving parts excluding the Gore royalty we're on track to bring the year in where we said we would from both the sales and profitability perspectives.
As Tim said based on last week's rulings we are confident in our expectation of the Gore royalty coming but the precise timing remains uncertain.
We've been transparent with you along the way and we'll continue to do just that.
Let me now turn you over to John DeFord.
Thanks Chris and good afternoon everyone.
Over the first 3 quarters of the year we've launched almost 30 organic products and a number of new technologies associated with acquisitions.
We've got a lot to cover in the pipeline today so I'm going to jump right in with some highlights.
I'll start with our drug-coated balloon program.
As you likely know we completed the 1-year follow-up of the LEVANT 2 study for the treatment of SFA and popliteal disease in Q3.
Though we continue to work through this data to finalize our analysis and the clinical study report we are very pleased to say that at this point the results indicate that we met both our primary safety and efficacy endpoints.
We're certainly not taking FDA approval for granted though.
Our team has a lot of work to do and is focused on completing the final module of the PMA for submission this quarter.
We are very proud of the scientific rigor of the LEVANT 2 study.
There's a substantial body of clinical evidence that's been developed over the last several years in the SFA.
The Lutonix team looked at prior studies and applied many of their strong points to LEVANT 2.
At the same time in consultation with our investigators as well as other experts in the field the team culled out elements of those past protocols that might have biased those results.
There are 2 examples of this enhanced scientific rigor you'll continue to hear more about over the next several months.
First in LEVANT 2 we only randomize patients after a successful pre-dilatation.
And second at the follow up the physician who made the decision on revascularization was blinded to both the product used in the index procedure and the Doppler patency measure until after the clinical evaluation and decision concerning re-intervention were completed.
The scientific rigor of this study is one of the reasons we felt so strongly about the Lutonix asset in 2011.
As we complete our analysis we believe our focus on good science will be helpful as we approach the FDA and the clinical community.
Many are already trying to compare LEVANT 2 to other studies whether they were registries small randomized trials or stent trials.
We believe at this time there is no comparison.
We know everyone's anxious to know more about our results.
However we're sticking with the plan we articulated several months ago to preserve the 12-month randomized data for a first look by the FDA.
We'll also preserve the ability of our investigators to seek publication in the best and most appropriate journal possible.
Next week at TCT one of our primary investigators will present 6-month data from our randomized cohort.
This protects our publication strategy while beginning to help the scientific community better understand the study.
LEVANT 2 is just a part of our activity around this substantial program.
In September we also completed enrollment in our 650-patient Continued Access Registry.
This study enrolled patients following the same inclusion and exclusion criteria as with the LEVANT 2 study and results will be used to further support the safety of the Lutonix DCB technology in our PMA submission.
Beyond these 2 studies we also have an open label SFA and popliteal registry outside the U.S.
that's enrolled over 200 patients.
And our LEVANT 2 Japan study is rapidly recruiting and we anticipate completing enrollment early next year.
In the Below the Knee study the technology that we've been studying we have approximately 1/2 the sites up and enrolling and we're making reasonable progress.
This study is in a much sicker patient population as we're treating critical limb ischemia not claudicants.
We anticipate enrollment to continue through 2014.
Next in our DCB developments is the planned launch of coronary products in the first half of 2014 in Europe and an IDE filing in that timeframe to commence a study of the technology in peripheral in-stent restenosis.
Now moving to some of our other vascular developments we reported back in Q1 that we reached our enrollment target in the clinical study of the FLUENCY PLUS family for the AV access in-stent restenosis indication.
We've recently completed our 6-month follow-up and remain on track to file the clinical module of the PMA in Q4.
Launch is predicated upon PMA approval currently estimated late in 2014.
At our June Analyst Day we alluded to some other stent and stent graft product developments.
Due to the competitive dynamics in this space we're going to keep a few of those under wraps for another quarter or 2.
But I'm excited to let you know that we're nearing completion of a balloon-expandable stent graft platform that we plan to launch in Europe for iliac use around midyear 2014 and start a pivotal IDE study in that same timeframe.
Now moving to urology.
We're continuing our technical and clinical developments to expand the approved use and indications for our targeted temperature management technology.
We reported earlier in the year the completion of our Arctic Blast product family to support the initiation of cooling sooner in the patient treatment paradigm.
We're evaluating the product in a number of centers and in small feasibility studies along with our new shiver detection technology.
We're also deep in the development of a technology for use in neonates and pediatric patients and anticipate initiating o U.S.
studies of the products in the back half of next year.
Moving to oncology.
We continue to expand our ClearView platform with several technology advancements that are focused on increased functionality.
In the last quarter we launched our new iPrevue [ph] portable ultrasound system in several o U.S.
geographies.
iPrevue [ph] Supports PICC and PIV placements and is specifically tailored for the o U.S.
markets which we see as an opportunity to expand ultrasound capabilities and use on a global front.
We're also nearing the launch of our new Site-Rite Vision 2 platform slated for U.S.
and E.U.
release in the first half of 2014 and we're also on track to launch our freehand stereotactic system for vascular access now called Pinpoint GT in that same timeframe.
This technology could significantly improve the success of first-attempt needlestick access and we look forward to getting this into the hands of clinicians next year.
In PICCs we introduced to you 3 new platforms under development at the June Analyst Day.
For competitive reasons I'm not going to discuss all 3 but I will tell you a bit about 2 of them: An antimicrobial PICC family and a thromboresistant PICC family.
These products have strong regulatory predicates and we anticipate launching both of them in 2014 across our most popular PICC sizes and configurations.
While these represent nice-to-have platforms we see the opportunity to move beyond just a coatings discussion which we'll shed more light on in 2014.
Our Sherlock 3CG Tip Confirmation System continues to perform at a very high level and we're excited to announce that we'll launch the next phase of this platform in early 2014 where we'll provide applications aimed at enhancing the user experience and driving faster elimination of chest x-ray.
We're also nearing the launch of additional sizes of our POWERGLIDE midline catheter family in the next few months.
Late last year we launched a 20-gauge version and we're expanding that strong base with 18- and 22-gauge devices which grow the potential utilization of this important and successful platform.
Our simplified insertion technique and all-in-one design has already made this product family a popular alternative to PIVs for patients who need venous access for up to 29 days but don't need the central access of a PICC.
This provides patients with vascular access that's tailored for their needs while reducing the need for swapping out a PIV during the duration of their therapy.
Moving to surgery.
We recently expanded our offering of the ECHO mesh placement system by coupling it with our popular VENTRALIGHT ST laparoscopic ventral hernia repair mesh.
This has an increased range of hernias where this technology can be employed and expands upon the base of surgeons who have been -- become accustomed to ECHO's clinical and ease-of-use advantages.
We're also working on 3 new mesh fixation technologies.
The first is a spring-loaded resorbable tack device named OPTIFIX targeted to launch in the first half of 2014.
This is a highly competitive space so I'll hold further details on the other projects until we get closer to launch.
In our biologic mesh category we've just submitted our 510(k) for a new antibiotic XENMATRIX product family.
This "first of its kind" product will utilize our proprietary coating which is intended to preserve the integrity of the graft in abdominal wall reconstruction procedures.
Demonstrating broad spectrum safety and efficacy against several typically-encountered bacteria we expect that this product in addition to our XENMATRIX family should increase market adoption for our biologic mesh category.
In Q3 we also launched our second Phasix-based product for complex abdominal wall repair.
As you may recall Phasix is a fully-resorbable polymer that provides the short-term strength of standard mesh yet fully resorbs in about a year.
This Phasix flat sheet together with the pending launch of XENMATRIX AB provides surgeons with 2 compelling and proprietary products to treat those patients who are at high risk of developing infections.
In this group Phasix provides a cost-effective alternative to the fully-biologic mesh offerings.
Moving to our recently formed biosurgical product family which includes Progel Arista AH and Avitene we're pleased to communicate solid advances against our goals.
With respect to our Progel sealant family we're making excellent progress in 3 categories.
First we continue to enroll patients in our video-assisted and robot-assisted thoracic surgery study and anticipate completing enrollment in the first quarter of next year.
Next we received IDE approval in the summer and expect to enroll our first patients in our vascular sealant study by the end of the year.
We anticipate enrollment will continue through 2014 with PMA submission in 2015 and a launch following approval.
And finally we continue to execute on the global launch of Progel which includes expanding our labeling in Europe and gaining approval in other emerging markets.
We also recently announced the closing of our deal with Medafor.
This acquisition brings the Arista AH technology which is a plant-based hemostatic agent  to our surgery portfolio.
The surgery team is busy at work integrating the operation.
I know we've covered a lot of ground here today and I've only really been able to hit some of the highlights.
Thanks for your attention and let me now turn you back to Tim.
Thanks John.
That does conclude the formal part of the presentation.
I'll now turn the call back to the moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A session.
I will tell you there's a lot of investors on the call tonight.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I'll focus one on the third quarter and then another on the announcement on the LEVANT 2 trial.
Let me start with the quarter.
Tim and John it certainly looks like the underlying business continues to accelerate here and particularly if we look at one the U.S.
performance relative to where it was a couple of quarters ago and then the continued progress you're making in the emerging markets.
So can you talk about your view on the kind of the base business today and just kind of where it's at? And I know you tried to caution us to go too far with our fourth quarter assumptions but it certainly looks like across not just 1 or 2 businesses but the whole portfolio that the underlying base of what -- off of which you're building is a little bit stronger.
And then on -- John DeFord and then on Lutonix and the disclosure on hitting the endpoints for LEVANT 2.
So obviously that's great news.
It puts you guys in a position to file with the FDA.
Can you just talk about where you are in that process? Are you going to file the clinical module with the randomized data alone? Or will you wait for some of this registry data you talked about to be ready to be filed as well? Thanks Mike.
I'll cover the kind of the macro environmental view which touches on kind of the revenue that we saw in the quarter and I'll let John Weiland respond specifically to product.
I think as I mentioned given the uncertainty in the U.S.
environment I'm not sure we're ready to call this a trend.
We had a strong quarter.
There's no question about that.
But we've been kind of in a prolonged flattish-to-declining cycle.
There's nothing in the physician's office visits or hospital data we look at that would point to any change in trajectory.
So we're remaining cautious there.
John Weiland? I'd say that in emerging markets we remain on track in terms of our investment profile and we talked about the fact that we had almost 200 physicians that we were going to add in the emerging markets on selling this year.
We're on track to complete that as expected.
And I'd say on the U.S.
business from a commentary yes we did see a nice step-up.
And it was primarily because the 3 of our 4 businesses our vascular our surgery and our urology business all had a performance that was slightly better than what their year-to-date performance is.
But as Tim says we're not ready to call that a trend especially looking at some of the data points that we've seen recently in the market.
John DeFord you want to cover LEVANT? Sure.
So on LEVANT 2 and our final module as I said we are on track to get that module filed this quarter.
We're going to file that of course with our all of our randomized data and the roll-ins.
And frankly we're required to submit on whatever data we've got.
So we'll be giving them everything we've got in terms of the registry data and other information that we have which would include LEVANT 1 and any o U.S.
data.
Research Division</strong> And can I just ask one follow-up on LEVANT? So you're going to have the data published hopefully soon here.
That will give you a chance to go out and start marketing in '14 more aggressively with the product outside the U.S.
Can you just talk for a minute about that? So once that is published and in the public domain what your plans are to try and really accelerate the business internationally in 2014? Sure.
So obviously we've always said that having the data is going to be critically important.
I think figuring out what the exact timing is of the publication is tough.
We do think the publication will come slightly before the panel meeting whenever that occurs.
And so once we have that in our hands we obviously will use that to the full extent we can outside the U.S.
and try to be careful not to promote here in the U.S.
until we can get approval from FDA.
The primary market for us right now is Europe which is about an $80 million market.
And we've said all along that clinical data will certainly help our results in that marketplace and that's certainly squarely how we're looking at things today Mike.
And we have a question from Bob Hopkins from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Well congrats on Lutonix and I just wondered since you're willing to make these disclosures on this call if I could push a little bit on that and I just wanted to confirm that you're filing this quarter.
Did you say that? Yes we did.
And Bob just to be clear I didn't want to say anything but our Investor Relations and legal teams said that we needed to disclose so that's why we told you today.
Research Division</strong> Terrific.
And I appreciate that.
On Lutonix can we assume that the patency rates are similar to what we saw with the roll-in data you showed a couple of weeks ago? Well you'll see at TCT some of the randomized data.
So I don't want to take any anything away from our investigators having the opportunity to present.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then 2 other quick follow-ups.
One on Gore and then one on the financial guidance that was provided.
On Gore I know you guys assume the royalty rate declines over time and I ask this only because I've been getting a lot of questions on it.
I just wondering at this point do you have any reason to believe that Gore thinks their new materials don't violate your current patents? And then lastly Chris I was wondering if you could provide a bridge from the original guidance of that $6.25 to $6.30 versus where you are now and just in terms of the various moving parts that have affected the change over time? Sure Bob.
With respect to Gore as we've said it's hard for us to say what they're doing and what they're trying to do right? We get the information on the royalty on a lagged basis as you know.
We expect the next payment to come next week for the September quarter.
And we really don't have visibility into what they're doing beyond that.
So we're focused on executing the investment plan.
And obviously over time that royalty will be what it's going to be I think is probably the right way to say it.
The bridge from the original guidance so if you go back to January Bob we guided for the full year $6.25 to $6.30.
I think we were very clear at that time that we assume 2 quarters worth of Gore royalty as well as the impact of the bolus buyback being executed in Q3.
And we said each quarter it was worth about $0.30 a share between the royalty and the impact of the buyback.
So that's $0.60 a share for Gore in 2013.
When you back that out you're at $5.65 to $5.70.
And then on the September 4 call we said that there was $0.10 of dilution in Q4 from the net effect of the divestiture of EP and the 3 acquisitions that we announced.
So that would take you down to $5.55 to $5.60 coming into this call tonight.
So with the beat in Q3 and what we're now guiding for Q4 which is $1.34 to $1.39 you end up at $5.70 to $5.75 as our full year guidance.
And we have a question from Dave Turkaly with JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> And just to follow-up on that last question.
If we're using a slightly lower base for 2013 EPS given the royalty is not here can we assume then that your high level 2014 EPS growth could we actually see more than 22% to 25% in 2014? Yes I think were not going to give 2014 guidance today.
But obviously the fact that there was 0 Gore in 2013 would imply that that would be the case Dave.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I can't help myself.
Just one quickly on the Gore I know you have legal experts there a legal team.
Can you give us any further color on whatever you'd consider the most likely scenario here? Do you think we have this -- at least the bulk of the money before this year is over? I think the safest way to think about it is that we believe it's reasonable to assume that at this point we would have the infringement dollars in hand by the end of January.
And I think that's the next relevant date from an accounting standpoint.
So assuming that is the case and again we think that's a reasonable assumption sitting here on October 22 that would allow us to essentially recognize 4 quarters worth of royalty in 2014.
I think being more precise than that is dangerous as we've I think learned with this case.
But we think that's a very reasonable assumption.
And we have a question from Matthew Taylor from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just to ask another one on that.
I was just curious if you could give us a best guess in terms of kind of the timeline here.
I know you expect it before next quarter but can you talk a little bit about the appeals process? And then can you confirm that sort of your prior plans for investment and buyback kind of remain intact here but they've just been pushed back a little bit because of the timing? Yes.
I think we've been very consistent on the investment plan.
Regardless of when this came we were fully committed to this plan and we remain fully committed.
The one piece that is subject to the final receipt of the funds is the bolus buyback.
So that will occur upon receipt of the funds.
But the investment in emerging markets and the investment in R&amp;D is happening every day.
And that's going to continue to happen regardless of when the money arrives.
And the process is again they can appeal all 3 rulings which we certainly would expect them to.
And that will then begin a process at the appellate level that from an infringement standpoint again we think plays itself out in a way where we'll have the infringement proceeds by the end of January.
I think I'd just rather not try to be more specific than that because as we've seen the vagaries of the court schedule is one that's difficult to predict.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And maybe just on LEVANT.
So you did mention in your prepared comments that you saw I guess some good growth of drug-eluting balloons in Europe and can you just talk about prior to the U.S.
approval how the LEVANT 2 data could help you in Europe in terms of expanding reimbursement or increasing penetration in the markets where you do have some sales? Yes so while reimbursement -- that's a great question because even though there's the European Union reimbursement is country-by-country.
And there's limited reimbursement today for drug-coated balloons additional reimbursement beyond standard PTA.
So whether the data will really help drive governmental changes I don't think that's a near-term event for us.
But obviously we'll do everything we can once we have data in hand to push that as far and as fast as we can.
And we have a question from Matthew Dodds from Citicorp.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick ones.
First it seems like Neomend was the only deal in the quarter.
Can you just say roughly how much that added to the surgery's growth? I think it was about 500 basis points to the surgery number Matt.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick one for Tim.
Tim what's taking John DeFord so long to get all this data analyzed and get that manuscripted? Didn't do so well in math.
And we have a question from Brooks West from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> A question for John Weiland.
John I asked you last quarter if the vascular franchise could get back to growth and you said it would be tough.
You did better than that obviously.
I'm just wondering if you could call out kind of the major contributors there? And I'm trying to think about that franchise in Q4 without the EP business and then I've got one follow-up.
Yes I think your question last quarter was can it get back to growth considering the difficult situation in the stent business overall? But to answer your question on the drivers of performance first of all EP helped -- EP was up 7%.
It's up 2% year-to-date.
And as we mentioned in the prepared remarks we had pretty easy comps in the systems business in EP which helped us drive that growth.
Endovascular in general was up 2% versus minus 2% on a year-to-date basis.
And that was driven by overall our PTA growth being up 11%.
These -- drug-coated balloon helped that from Europe versus about 9% growth on a year-to-date basis.
Biopsy a very strong quarter up 10%.
Emerging markets was significant.
We also had an uptick in the United States business.
Stents were down 16% year-to-date.
We are down 13% in the quarter.
I wouldn't read too much into anything.
That's still a very competitive space especially as it relates to the pricing in that environment and the number of new entrants that are on-label in that area.
And then I'd say finally the vena cava filters was a real highlight for us being up 13% for the quarter.
And that helped our overall year-to-date performance where we're up 8%.
So all those key lines were contributors and it's nice to see those in the right direction this quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then John DeFord what -- you mentioned DEBs in coronaries and also in in-stent restenosis.
Can you just kind of layout the timelines again there Europe and U.S.
for those indications? Yes.
So what I said was around midyear next year is when we'd expect to launch the coronary DCB product family in Europe.
And then about that same timeframe is when we'd expect to submit our IDE for in-stent restenosis and that will be a U.S.
study primarily.
And we have a question from Kristen Stewart from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to get your thoughts just around with drug-coated balloons and if your expectations on the level of contribution have changed? I think in the past you guys have called at about $100 million in the first full year of sales in the U.S.
is that still something that you guys feel comfortable in? Yes there's nothing that at this point would change us off of what we had thought regarding that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just around the fourth quarter Chris I think you mentioned that from a growth perspective 1% to 3%.
I thought there was an extra selling day in the fourth quarter.
I'm not sure if I'm remembering that correctly.
And then just to confirm again that the EP business and the divestiture there completely offsets or whether there's a little net benefit from acquisitions during the quarter expected? So actually the extra day in the U.S.
is essentially offset by the anniversary-ing of Neomend when you think sequentially.
So that -- there is an offset there that really dilutes the impact of the extra day in Q4.
And then we did say that the divestiture of EP and the impact of the deals coming in about offset each other in the quarter as well.
So the 1% to 3% is essentially a pretty clean number from that perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you provide any additional context just around the gross margin again? I know you had called out in the prepared remarks that you're going to see higher costs of just bringing in the acquisitions.
But how should we just think about gross margins in the fourth quarter and then just kind of moving beyond? Yes.
I think again it's going to be a very muddy quarter for Q4 from a GP standpoint.
So there's obviously the incremental amortization that'll come in.
But there's also a fair amount of what I'd call onetime start-up costs and investment-related spend associated with bringing these factories onto our systems.
So it'll be a pretty material step-down from a year-over-year basis in Q4.
But a fair amount of that again we will get behind us as we move into the early part of '14.
Research Division</strong> And those one-time costs I assume those are not included in your formal EPS guidance for the quarter? Those are operating costs that we're bearing.
And so they are part of what's getting us to $1.34 to $1.39.
And we have a question from Joanne Wuensch with BMO Capital Markets.
A little bit of clarification.
When you talk about a bolus buyback have you quantified how much you think that might be? Yes we've been pretty consistent that half of the after-tax proceeds from the infringement process -- so right now there's $854 million of infringement award that's sitting with the court.
And we said half of the after-tax proceeds would be immediately deployed into incremental buybacks.
Okay.
And then have you announced where you think the DBS data the Lutonix data will be published? No we haven't submitted a manuscript yet.
So a little premature.
Okay.
And then just finally in your women's health business is there anything to update on the litigation front? No there's not.
Obviously we had taken the reserve we did in the June quarter.
And there's no update to that reserve based on the information we currently have with respect to that that whole entire topic.
And we have a question from David Lewis from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just 2 quick questions.
Chris I know you're not going to give 2014 guidance but if you just think about the LRP you laid out in the beginning of the year and think about the next several years based on what you've learned this year in terms of investment spend is there any areas where you feel like you're doing either ahead on either revenue cadence or ahead on relative spending or ahead on COGS relative to the plan that we got 10 months ago? No.
I'd say we're tracking pretty well and the spend will continue to sequentially increase.
So Q4 we'll continue to see some sequential increase in R&amp;D and SG&amp;A spending as we continue to execute.
I mean again this is north of 40 individual projects.
So I think we really are focused day in and day out on executing against that plan and there's lots of moving parts.
But I think in general we are tracking I think the way we had expected both from a spending and a results standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
And then Tim just on emerging markets I know you've given different metrics across the quarters this year.
I think first quarter you said EM was around 7%.
I think this quarter EM is around 8%.
I guess given that the U.S.
got a little better here in the third quarter can you give us a sense about how you think you're doing relative to plan as it relates to EM? And is there a sense that you've got a much clearer picture that this EM as a percent of sales can be a double-digit number next year? Yes that's actually a very good question and a good point you raised for a couple of different reasons.
We're very -- let me start by saying we're very pleased with the performance of the emerging market businesses and the investments that we've made so far.
So -- and were going to track that performance against what our expectations are.
With the noise that you've seen putting aside for a moment just the U.S.
performance in Q3 a lot of the acquisitions that are coming in are more U.S.-centric.
EP was more x U.S.
focused.
So that that's going to mix that up a little bit.
So that as you get into next year that dynamic may change a little bit.
We'll continue to report and tell you how the performance is in the emerging markets which is really the key and most important part of that not necessarily the percentage of total revenue.
So we'll clarify and be transparent with you.
But we're very pleased with the performance in emerging markets this year.
And we have a question from David Roman from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to come back to just clarify a few quick financial points.
So just coming back to the fourth quarter and I think Chris you laid out in quite -- in a number of pieces the detail about the earnings picture.
But I'm just trying to understand sequentially it sounds like your guidance implies a greater amount of absolute revenue dollars in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter but a fairly significant decline in the earnings profile.
So it sounds like the investment spending you're talking about whether it's new amortization or some of the quality control initiatives that could be -- that could take the gross margin back down to closer to Q1 levels.
Is that a fair way to look at it? Yes.
I think that's not a bad way to look at it David.
And then as I said the investment projects continue to ramp throughout the year.
And so Q4 you will also see sequential increases in spending from an SG&amp;A and R&amp;D perspective related to these specific investment projects.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe just a follow-up on the investment spending comment.
I think you said in your prepared remarks that CapEx was just under $17 million in the quarter.
I think previously you had talked about a number of closer to $85 million to $90 million for the year.
Just thinking about cash flow going forward is the year-to-date performance a better reflection or there's some major capital projects coming that haven't yet been announced? Yes there are a couple of significant IT-related projects that are actually just starting a little bit later in the year than we probably anticipated from a budget standpoint.
So some of that dollar spend will likely move into '14.
But I don't think -- there's not going to be -- it's not going to be a material change I think to what we'll spend overall in '14.
But we'll probably end up a bit light in '13 just as we've geared up to begin executing against 2 pretty substantial IT projects.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe the last time -- and I just come back to the comments around the overall operating environment.
I think obviously there are still companies left to report this quarter.
But as you look at the commentary from either HCA or UNH or LabCorp for example I mean it does look like the data points are coming together to suggest an improved dynamic in the U.S.
Maybe if you could just shed a little more detail on the types of metrics that you're watching or what you will be looking for that would make you more confident in calling a turn here? Yes.
I think there's 2 things with that.
Number one certainly given that this started back in kind of 2008 2009 more in 2009 2010 I should say it's taken us a while to get there.
So to take 1 quarter and say "Hey there is the spot it turned around " is extremely difficult for anybody to do I would say number one.
Number two there is certainly a lot of noise going on especially as it relates to the factors of co-pays out of pockets deductibles.
There's obviously a lot of noise now with people getting insurance access et cetera.
I think that's going to confuse metrics for a while.
And additionally the definition of some of those metrics observation status versus an admission a lot more being done out of the hospital where does that show up in some of the reported metrics? It's a little more confusing and maybe not as pure to track as it was several years ago.
Having said all that we see nothing that would indicate this is necessarily a rising tide at this point.
So we're just being we think appropriately cautious based on what we think is going to happen and the unpredictability of being able to tell you what that is.
And we have a question from Miroslava Minkova with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Let me just start with the outlook.
And I appreciate you probably won't be able to give us too much detail on 2014 but you did share in your plan that you were going for a mid-single-digit top line growth outlook in 2014 in your long-range plan.
And it sounds like just the royalty itself will get you there.
Wondering if you would be able to sort of share with us given all the pluses and minuses with the divestiture and acquisitions what do you think the actual profile of your business looks like at this point? Yes I think you can appreciate -- I can appreciate why you asked and I think you can appreciate why we'd like to wait until January to lay that out for you.
Obviously we think everything we've done is going to be very positive from that perspective.
Obviously we've added a significant amount of double-digit growing sales as we talked about while exiting a decliner in EP.
And obviously we feel very good about the royalty as we move into January.
So if you put that all together I think we feel good about the profile but we're not going to get into any specifics tonight.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And separately there is -- there was a proposed change in outpatient vascular procedure reimbursement.
Wondering if you could comment on whether you do expect any impact on outpatient procedures or on your stent or vascular business at all? Yes.
I think what we have found historically especially when it relates to an interventional kind of procedure these are people that need the treatment.
So essentially what happens is they'll move from one stenting to another.
And I would expect that the underlying disease and the prevalence of it isn't going to change because of reimbursement rates.
It's just going to move the dynamic in terms of where the patient is treated.
I would suspect that's what's going to happen moving ahead.
And we have a question from Matt O'Brien with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I apologize.
I jumped on a little bit late so if you've covered this again I apologize.
But I think you mentioned a little bit more on the 3CG product this time around than you have in the past.
Can you talk a little bit about what's driving some of the improvement there or just some of the metrics that you used to give us in terms of penetration of existing accounts and where you think that can go over time? Well we think -- I guess the description I would give is we think we're in about the fifth inning in terms of our ability to continue to grow that business in the United States.
We haven't even started with it outside of the United States to any significant effect at this point in time.
The metrics we really use are number of conversions.
And those number of conversions the percentage of those that are eliminating x-rays.
And I would say that our growth in terms of the conversions continues at a very strong rate.
And the rate with which those customers eliminate x-ray within their hospitals is also continuing to grow at a very strong rate.
So I got to tell you we're delighted with where we are with 3CG.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on that question real quick.
When do you think we'll start to see a little bit more o U.S.
penetration? And then I have one quick follow-up.
Well we think that will take time because in moving to this technology you have to first be able to move to ultrasound.
And then after you get accompanied -- accomplished in ultrasound then you can move up the technology ladder in terms of 3CG.
We're just introducing ultrasound into the emerging markets and markets out of the United States.
So we have a lot of growth ahead of this on both sides of the spectrum as we start to do that.
But we think both technologies are very compelling to clinicians and patients in terms of the efficacy of PICC devices.
One other quick thing to add is it also requires nursing placement of PICCs and not every country is yet to that point.
So there's a lot of training as John points out to get nurses skilled with ultrasound and then move up the technology ladder.
And then in some cases there are some regulatory requirements too.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
So one more for you.
I think you mentioned the emerging market spend that you outlined earlier this year is on track.
But I'm not sure if you mentioned this before as far as the R&amp;D spend goes.
If that's on track in terms of the number of projects that you are pursuing you still feel comfortable about those timelines? And specifically some of the returns that you had mentioned I think it was around 50% on some of those investments still feel pretty comfortable in terms of what you've seen to-date in hitting those numbers? As you can imagine Matt we're managing this very tightly and we're very comfortable that we're on track with both our original investments and then the returns on those investments.
And we have a question from Konstantin Tcherepachenets with Raymond James.
First I guess if I can start off with -- can you just maybe provide more color in terms of what gives you comfort that Lutonix can be -- can reach $100 million in sales in 2015.
So if you can maybe share some granularity? I think approval would help.
That would be a good start.
I think the -- it goes back to -- and there's been a lot of kind of third-party published reports at this point of what the potential is for that market.
Clearly there's unmet needs in the marketplace.
In fact it still is very -- a very underdiagnosed disease.
And there's an awful lot of amputations that are done in the United States.
I think it's somewhere around 170 000 or something like that annually.
So all those data points line up to tell you that this is a technology that will have a dramatic impact.
The other thing is because it is delivered via a PTA balloon this is a technology of a delivery system that is well understood widely practiced.
So there's not a big training curve associated with introducing this as there may be with other kinds of first-in-man type device introductions.
So when you put all those together it makes us very optimistic about what the uptake for this product could be.
I'd also add that our original assumptions -- when we first started down this investment trail and analyzing this in '09 '10 our original assumptions in terms of obesity diabetes and related peripheral vascular disease we have not seen anything that would say that our original assumptions were not correct.
Terrific.
And then my follow-up is so you guys have done a number of M&amp;A deals here.
You guys still have a very healthy balance sheet.
Just wanted to gauge your appetite for more M&amp;A? And also just in terms of your capital allocation are there any thoughts of any meaningful increase to your dividend given that I think the payout is significantly below peers? Sure.
We remain extremely active on the acquisition front.
That has been that way and will always be that way as we look for new technologies that will contribute to our revenue growth.
And relative to use of cash our priorities remain the same.
Strategic is first; acquisitions buybacks would be second; and dividends would be third.
And Konstantin just on the payout I would just add I think given our size right which certainly skews smaller than most of the peer group and given our preference again for making investments that will drive higher organic growth over time we just don't think it makes sense from our shareholders perspective frankly for us to meaningfully increase the dividend.
And frankly it would take a very material increase in the dividend to matter.
That that is a good trade-off when we think about the flexibility we currently have for acquisitions and then buybacks.
We have a question from Richard Newitter from Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick one.
I know you're being kind of cautious heading into the fourth quarter.
You don't want to get ahead of yourselves and kind of call a turnaround one quarter to make a trend.
But just on the pricing it looks like the pressure kind of eased slightly this quarter and I was just wondering if you could comment on if there's any division in particular or product area where perhaps pricing might have eased? No.
We didn't see any significant trend in that.
It was kind of across the board primarily in the United States.
So I would say that there was no new trend that would cause us to change our perspective on what the pricing impact will be.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And did you mention -- I think you had mentioned a potential FDA panel next year.
Did you say when that might potentially be? Or are there any kind of goal posts or target timeframes that we should be thinking of? Well it's really completely in FDA's hands on when they would schedule a cardiovascular devices panel.
So it just would be pure speculation to give you a time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it's fair to assume that that would -- if we just think of the order of publication and a peer review journal versus when that might happen can you give us a sense of any restrictions or what you think needs to happen in order for the -- that process to move forward? I doubt that a publication would be predicated on panel or vice versa.
I mean really once we've got everything into FDA and they have a little bit of time to review it we'll be working on the manuscript anyway.
And so timing of the manuscript will really be dictated by the -- by whatever journal accepts it.
And it's possible if panel meetings were to come early or relatively speaking early that could push the publication a little earlier.
But otherwise again it's just pure speculation.
[Operator Instructions] And we have a question from Anthony Petrone from Jefferies Group.
Research Division</strong> Just one on Lutonix and a follow-up on peripheral.
On Lutonix can you maybe walk through the pricing and volume dynamics for the Lutonix product in Europe? And maybe how that would be materially different or the same in the U.S.
once you enter the market? And then just a follow-up on peripheral vascular can you maybe speak to how Cook's drug-eluting stent broadly plays in for both stents and eventually balloons overall? I'll take the first part.
We don't see anything at this point in time developing in the European market that would prevent us from hitting our internal guidelines in terms of our expectations on Lutonix in the United States and any place else around the world.
So there's no dynamic there from pricing or anything else that causes us to be concerned.
I think on the Zilver product we really haven't seen a lot of impact from it yet.
We know that Cook had some issues in getting that out.
We understand that they're back on the market or getting back on the market now.
So again I don't know that we have any clear indication at this point of what that impact might be.
And we have a question from Joshua Jennings from Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just had a first one for John DeFord on the LEVANT 2 data.
Congratulations on hitting the 15 efficacy endpoints.
I'm just wondering speaking to interventional cardiologists we get a little bit of a range of what the primary patency rate you need to really secure meaningful traction in the peripheral market and really open some eyes and maybe hit the target of opening the eyes of an FDA panel as well as that $100 million first year kind of target you guys have set.
Internally what is the primary -- the 12-month primary patency rate that you think you need to hit in order to achieve all those goals? Josh I'm really not in a position to start giving numbers out because when I do that it's going to start giving 12-month data for LEVANT 2.
I think were not really in a position to do that at this time.
Nice try though Josh.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was just curious because we get a range but -- and then just in terms of the disclosure today does that limit your ability with any of the high-profile journals or is it -- does just announcing the successful endpoints does that limit your opportunity with -- for any specific high-profile journals that you may want to approach with the manuscript? Yes we don't think it impacts anything.
We haven't given any details.
We've just given you top line.
It's -- in our analysis we don't think that's going to be a problem for us.
Although I'll go on record again saying I would've liked to have not had to do it but we did.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just lastly can you remind us how we should be thinking about the sustainability of the Gore royalty rate through expiration in the first half or second half of '19? Yes Josh we haven't been specific other than saying in '14 we assume we have a full year at the current run rate.
And then we've modeled a consistent decline beginning in '15 through '19.
And we have a question from Bob Hopkins from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Oh sorry I'll be real quick.
I was just wondering if you guys as you consider 2014 are going to move to cash EPS in light of the amortization that you've called out.
Obviously a bunch of other -- a bunch of your peers have.
Yes Bob we're obviously continuing to monitor what other folks in the sector are doing.
Obviously we're very focused right now on getting these transactions closed and obviously working through the accounting for them which as you guys know takes a couple of months from a valuation standpoint.
So we'll see where we are in January.
We'll see where the sector is in January and we'll make a decision at that point in time.
And we have a question from Jason Wittes with Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick follow-ups.
One for drug-eluting balloons.
Do you see much advantage in doing atherectomy prior to the procedure? I imagine you haven't seen much of it in Europe because of reimbursement but do you feel that's a viable option that you might see in the U.S.? Well it's a good question.
We don't have any data to support it.
There's 30-day data that was presented at VIVA.
So whether some kind of plaque modification is important and whether atherectomy is that it's just unclear at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And also just a quick follow-up.
I know plenty of questions on timing of Gore but are you assuming a petition -- another petition to the Supreme Court from Gore at this point in that timing? Certainly on the infringement we're not.
And there are no additional questions.
This concludes our Q&amp;A session.
I would like to turn the call back over to Bard's management for closing or additional comments.
Great.
Thanks.
Let me close by just thanking Bard employees around the world for all their efforts and commitment for a strong quarter.
And I'd like to thank all of you for joining us this afternoon and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude our conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the C.R.
Bard Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
And it will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Christopher S.
Holland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Also in attendance today are John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs; and Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which are based on management's current expectations including multiyear projections of revenue earnings per share and other financial measures which include certain assumptions related to Bard's patent infringement suit against Gore.
The accuracy of these statements are necessarily subject to risk and uncertainty.
These statements are not historical in nature and use words such as anticipate estimate expect project intend forecast plan believe and other words of similar meaning.
Many factors may cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results including product development sales efforts income tax matters the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings including with respect to the Gore matters the uncertainty of loss-reserve estimates share repurchases acquisitions and other economic business competitive and regulatory factors.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information in Bard's September 30 2013 10-Q and the information under the caption Risk Factors in the company's 2012 10-K including disclosure of the fact that that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance of the company and its individual product categories.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures with respect to the company's historical financial results are provided in Bard's earnings press release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of January 30 2014 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information.
Unless otherwise noted all comparisons are to the prior year period.
At this time I will turn the call over to Mr.
Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Kathy.
I'd like to welcome everyone to Bard's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
And also thank all of you for taking the time to join us today.
I would expect the presentation portion of the call to last around 40 minutes.
The agenda today will go as follows: I'll begin with an overview of the results for the fourth quarter of 2013; John Weiland our President and COO will review fourth quarter product line revenue; John DeFord our Senior VP Science Technology and Clinical Affairs will update you on the product development pipeline; and then Chris Holland our Senior VP and CFO will review the fourth quarter income statement and balance sheet and provide our financial guidance for 2014 as well as updating you on the status of our strategic investment plan that we introduced to you a year ago.
And then finally we'll close with Q&amp;A.
For the fourth quarter 2013 net sales totaled $791.3 million.
That's up 4% over Q4 last year on an as reported and on a constant currency basis.
The currency impact this quarter versus Q4 of 2012 was favorable by about 30 basis points.
The impact of acquisitions offset by the divestiture of our EP business in the quarter contributed about 50 basis points of growth for the quarter on a net basis.
Net sales for the full year 2013 were $3.05 billion that's up 3% as reported and also on a constant currency basis which is at the top end of the original guidance for the year.
Net income for Q4 was $667.5 million and diluted earnings per share were $8.28.
This includes the onetime gain from the Gore litigation that we recognized in the quarter.
Excluding this and other items that affected the comparability of results between periods which Chris will cover later fourth quarter 2013 net income and diluted EPS were $114.7 million and $1.42 down 20% and 16% respectively.
Full year 2013 net income was $689.8 million and diluted EPS were $8.39.
Again excluding items that affect comparability between periods full year 2013 net income was $474.9 million and diluted EPS were $5.78.
That's down 16% and 12% respectively from 2012 and does reflect the impact of our strategic investment plan.
This result on the bottom line is $0.08 better than the top end of our original guidance when adjusting for the timing of the Gore royalties despite absorbing roughly $0.10 of dilution from the business development activities during the year.
Looking at Q4 revenue growth geographically compared with the prior year on a constant currency basis net sales in the U.S.
grew 4% and internationally we grew 3% with Europe up 2% Japan down 1% and our other international geographies up 5%.
I want to remind you that the Electrophysiology business had the highest mix of our outside U.S.
sales in our portfolio.
Excluding the EP divestiture impact total international sales were up 7% with Europe up 8%; Japan up 2% and the remaining geographies up 8%.
Our emerging markets sales continue to increase and represented about 8.5% of our total revenue in the fourth quarter.
The mix of emerging markets sales from our EP business was much higher than the mix acquired in our recent transaction.
So the trajectory of our overall mix from these geographies may slow slightly as we work those sales out of the base.
We're actively working on accelerating these newer technologies into the emerging markets.
As expected the business development activity we announced in Q3 came to closure in Q4.
The Medafor transaction closed in early October.
The EP divestiture closed in early November and the Rochester acquisition closed in mid-November.
I would tell you we're very pleased with the integration activity on these transactions so far and we continue to actively look for additional strategic assets to shift the mix of portfolio to higher long-term revenue growth areas.
Looking back on 2013 we're pleased with the progress we've made.
But let's be clear nobody here is happy with low single-digit organic growth which is why we implemented a plan over a year ago to improve the long-term organic growth profile of the business.
While we don't expect the returns from the investments to begin to show in our numbers until later on this year some of the key accomplishments in 2013 make us further believe we're better positioned for the future than we were a year ago.
While all we've really done so far in the investment plan is spend money the way we said we would we believe that these investments will produce increased revenue opportunities for a number of years to come.
We also received the Gore proceeds during the year and we were very pleased with the successful outcome of the LEVANT 2 trial especially considering the significant scientific rigor that was implemented in this trial.
We look forward to releasing more results in our drug-coated balloon program in 2014 and we're working tirelessly on getting through the next steps of FDA approval and preparing for a subsequent U.S.
launch.
We remain very much in the investment mode with the global return to premium revenue growth versus our sector with the lower risk profile that provides for double-digit EPS growth both of these on a sustainable basis.
In addition to the objectives we laid out at the beginning of last year we believe that the business development activities completed in 2013 provide additional acceleration to our long-term organic revenue growth profile.
There's been a lot of speculation recently about where the U.S.
market growth is today we think it's too early to identify any meaningful rebound and there are as many moving pieces today as there have ever been frankly.
It still appears to us that the market's growing somewhere in the low single digit.
Our plan is based on getting us to higher growth without tailwind from any market improvement.
If the markets get better we expect that we'll do even better.
But I'm happy to tell you that as we look at the levers available to us even if the markets don't improve beyond the low single-digit range as long as they don't deteriorate further we believe that beginning in 2014 and forward our revenue growth should be in the mid- to high-single digits.
Chris will give you more details when he lays out our financial guidance.
And as we said we measure success here over the long term.
We're very excited about our plan and we're very confident in our team's ability to execute.
With that now let me turn you over to John Weiland for a review of our fourth quarter product line revenue.
Good afternoon everyone and before I start as usual I'll be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior year period on a constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
So let's start with Vascular.
Total net sales in this category for the quarter were $204.7 million a decrease of 3% on a reported basis and 4% on a constant currency basis when compared to Q4 2012.
Our United States business was down 4% for the quarter and internationally it was down 5%.
The decline in the vascular category was driven by the divestiture of our Electrophysiology business this quarter.
Excluding the impact of divestiture total Vascular sales increased 2% this quarter over prior year.
Due to the divestiture Electrophysiology sales were down 35% this quarter compared to the prior year.
As previously disclosed we have entered into a multiyear transition supply agreement with Boston Scientific so we will continue to record a modest level of sales in this category until Boston has integrated manufacturing into their facilities.
Sales in our vascular graft category were down 4% in Q4 consistent with recent quarters.
Our Endovascular business increased 2% in the fourth quarter.
Within Endovascular our biopsy line was up 7% driven by strong international growth especially in the emerging markets.
Our peripheral PTA products were up 7% this quarter with drug-coated balloons in Europe being the key driver of the growth.
We're also seeing good early momentum with the TRUE double-plasty balloon acquired in Q2.
Sales in our vena cava filter line were up 12% in Q4 driven by our new Denali filter.
And our Stent business was down 7% in the fourth quarter.
As we said last quarter we see continued price headwinds in this category.
Let's move to Urology.
Total net sales were $202.4 million which is up 3% versus Q4 of last year on both a constant currency and as reported basis.
The United States business was up 4% while internationally we grew 3%.
The Rochester Medical acquisition in mid-November added about 200 basis points to the global growth for the category this quarter.
The intermittent and male external catheters will be recorded in basic drainage and the leg bags will be recorded in our continence sales consistent with where we report those types of products today.
I'll remind you that our European fiscal year ends in November and the majority of Rochester sales were in Europe.
So we only recorded a couple of weeks of sales in Q4 from this important geography.
The targeted temperature management products grew into very healthy double digits again this quarter and we remain optimistic about the long-term growth prospects of this technology platform.
Our basic drainage business was up 3% in Q4 with half of that growth coming from the acquired Rochester medical products.
I.C.
Foley's were up 4% globally with the United States down 1%.
These organic results are better than we've seen in I.C.
Foleys for a while.
Because of the Rochester acquisition our continence business grew 4% over the prior year quarter.
Excluding the impact of the acquired products our legacy continence products were down 9% for the quarter the same percentage decline as Q3.
Sales in urological specialties were down 4% with brachytherapy up 1% for the quarter.
And finally sales from our StatLock catheter stabilization line increased 3% this quarter.
Now for Oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $220.4 million an increase of 5% over Q4 last year on both a constant currency and as reported basis.
Net sales in the United States were up 3%.
While outside of the United States sales were up 9%.
Our port line was up 1% versus Q4 of last year.
PICC revenue growth was 11% in Q4 with strong performance in the United States and internationally.
We continue to advance the quality of care across the globe with our differentiated offering and technology.
Our Vascular Access ultrasound product line was down 6% this quarter with a tough comp a year ago.
And to complete the results in Oncology our dialysis catheter business was up 2% in Q4.
And now we'll finish with Surgical Specialties.
Net sales in this category were $140.6 million in the fourth quarter up 16% on both an as reported and constant currency basis.
The United States sales increased 17% while international sales were up 13%.
About 10 percentage points of the global growth in this category came from business development which included the Arista Hemostat product line acquired at the beginning of the quarter and the final few weeks of sales before the late October anniversary of the Progel surgical sealant acquisition a year ago.
We're very excited about the long-term opportunity from this new biosurgical product portfolio.
And already in the first full quarter of sales from both acquired product lines the combined revenue of our biosurgery products exceeds our biologic hernia sales and is almost 3x as much as our sales from Fixation products.
Our soft tissue repair business grew 6% overall for the quarter which marks the fifth straight quarter of improving revenue growth all organic.
Our total synthetic hernia products were up double digits versus Q4 last year.
This was a strong quarter for us in synthetics.
We've seen recently that when we have a strong quarter in either synthetics or biologics the other product line seems to have a like quarter and that was the case in Q4.
Our natural tissue products were down 5% this quarter.
As we've said before we've been seeing the market move away from the allograft products for hernia use.
And that was the key reason for this decline in products for us.
Our Fixation business was down 5% in Q4.
The declines here have moderated from what we were seeing a year ago but we're not projecting return to growth in this category until 2015.
Closing out the surgical category our Performance Irrigation business was down 5% in Q4.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to John DeFord.
Thanks John and let me try out a new voice for you guys today.
In 2013 we launched over 30 organic products and about 10 product families associated with acquisitions.
As you might imagine there's a lot of R&amp;D activity going on around here these days and I'll provide some recent highlights for you today.
I'll start with our drug-coated balloon program.
As you likely know we submitted the final module of the PMA for the SFA and popliteal indications in late November.
The PMA is under review and timing is really in the FDA's hands.
We would expect to receive some feedback from the agency later in Q1 that could help us better understand next steps.
Public disclosure of the 1 year LEVANT 2 results will likely be driven by publication timing.
We know that the investigators are nearing completion and submission of the manuscript.
Until that submission and feedback from a targeted journal we won't have more definitive timing on disclosure to share.
We will provide additional detail surrounding the study at upcoming meetings including ACC and Charing Cross.
And it's possible we could present full 1 year results at one of these latter meetings again depending on publication timing.
Our substantial drug-coated balloon development and clinical program continues to expand.
In Q3 of 2013 we completed enrollment in our LEVANT 2 continued access registry.
This study enrolled 657 patients following the same inclusion/exclusion criteria as the LEVANT 2 study and the early safety results are included in our PMA submission.
Beyond these 2 studies we also have an open label SFA and popliteal registry outside the U.S.
that's enrolled over 360 patients and our LEVANT 2 Japan study's rapidly enrolling and we anticipate completing enrollment around midyear.
In our Below the Knee study of DCB technology we have approximately 2/3 of the sites up and enrolling and we're making reasonable progress.
This study is in a much sicker patient population as we're treating critical limb ischemia not claudicants.
We anticipate enrollment to continue into 2015.
Next in our DCB developments is the planned launch of coronary products around midyear 2014 in Europe and an IDE filing in that timeframe to commence a study of the technology in peripheral in-stent restenosis.
Moving to some of our other Vascular developments.
We reported back in Q1 that we reached our enrollment target in the clinical study of the FLUENCY Plus family for AV access in-stent restenosis indication.
We completed our analysis and I'm pleased to report we met both our primary safety and efficacy endpoints and filed the final module of our PMA in December.
Launch is predicated on PMA approval currently estimated late in 2014.
On our last call we told you about our new balloon expandable stent graft program development and preclinical testing is expected to be complete this quarter and our IDE filing is anticipated in Q2.
We plan to launch in Europe for iliac use around midyear 2014 and commence enrollment in the pivotal study in that same timeframe.
Within our urology business our primary focus is on integrating Rochester Medical's considerable pipeline of products into our portfolio to capitalize on the opportunities in those markets.
The teams are executing well together and I look forward to discussing the details of some of those products on a future call.
In the coming weeks we anticipate the launch of a new Foley tray which supports our commitment to optimizing the usability of our products.
And later in the quarter pending regulatory clearance we plant to deliver our DIGNISHIELD with medical delivery capabilities.
In our targeted temperature management portfolio we expect to release a new software configuration this quarter and we're progressing well in our development efforts to further tailor the technology for use in neonates and pediatric patients.
We anticipate initiating studies of these new PADs in Japan in the back half of 2014.
Finally we have a number of new endourology product initiatives underway including a new guidewire that we anticipate launching midyear.
Moving to Oncology.
We're preparing the rollout of our new Site-Rite Vision II ultrasound platform later this quarter.
Site-Rite Vision II is our new high-end ultrasound system with full color Doppler and broad imaging and may be configured with Sherlock 3CG capabilities.
We're also preparing for the launch of our freehand stereotactic system for vascular access that we now call Pinpoint GT in the first half of this year.
This technology could improve the success of first-attempt needlestick access across multiple clinical applications and we look forward to getting this into the hands of clinicians.
In PICCs we're working toward regulatory filings for both an antimicrobial PICC family and a broad thromboresistant PICC offering both are slated to launch upon FDA clearance hopefully by the end of the year.
While these represent important platforms we see the opportunity to move beyond just a coatings discussion with the new PICC platform that for competitive reasons I'll wait to discuss until a further date.
I discussed on the Q3 call that we were nearing the launch of additional sizes of our POWERGLIDE midline catheter family.
We anticipate launching the 18- and 22-gauge devices this quarter and into Q2 which expand potential utilization of this important and successful platform.
Our simplified insertion technique and all-in-one design has already made this product family a popular alternative to PIVs for patients who need venous access for up to 29 days but don't need the central access of a PICC.
And finally moving to Surgery our biologics franchise is working with the FDA to secure concurrence on 2 key technologies.
First we anticipate launching additional sizes of our XENMATRIX porcine graft family in the next few weeks.
This will enable us to better serve the demands of our customers.
Second we've mentioned previously our activity on a new antibiotic-coated XENMATRIX product family.
We submitted our 510(k) as planned in Q4 and we're working with FDA to answer some outstanding questions.
Moving on to our recently formed biosurgery product family which includes Progel Arista AH and Avitene.
We're pleased to communicate solid progress against our goals.
With respect to our Progel sealant family we continue to enroll patients in our video-assisted and robotic-assisted thoracic surgery study and we're just a handful of patients away from meeting our enrollment target.
Next we commence enrollment in November in our vascular sealant pivotal IDE.
This study will expand our indications beyond thoracic to include vascular applications of Progel.
We anticipate enrollment will continue through 2014 with PMA submission in 2015 and launch following approval.
We're also focused on the execution of the global launch of Progel which includes expanding our presence in Europe and getting approval in other emerging markets.
We're also on track with our integration of Medafor.
We're working diligently to expand our Arista Hemostat technology with additional clinical indications and next-generation technology.
In parallel with our global efforts on Progel we've also commenced global launch activities with Arista.
In mesh fixation we're working on 3 new products.
The first is a spring-loaded resorbable pack device named OPTIFIX now targeted to launch early in 2015.
This is a highly competitive space so I'll hold further details on the other projects until we get closer to launch.
With the breadth of our portfolio I've only been able to hit a few of the highlights today.
But before I turn you back to Chris I'd like to extend to you an invitation to our annual analyst meeting where we'll review our new product pipeline in further detail.
The meeting will be held at the New York Palace Hotel on June 2 beginning at 4:30 p.m.
For those that can't attend the meeting will of course be webcast.
Now here's Chris.
Thanks John.
Let me start by covering the items that affect the comparability of our results between periods.
As Tim mentioned we booked an $894 million pretax gain related to the receipt of funds from the Gore litigation this quarter and made a onetime contribution to our charitable foundation of approximately $23 million pretax.
We had acquisition-related items of $14 million pretax related primarily to the acquisitions closed in Q4.
We also recorded a pretax gain of $213 million from the sale of the EP division as well as a charge of approximately $8 million pretax for divestiture costs.
And we took litigation charges totaling approximately $110 million this quarter primarily to increase our product liability reserves related to multiple product categories.
These items are detailed in the notes to the financial statements and the reconciliation accompanying our Q4 earnings press release.
Now let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $480.7 million in Q4 and $481.2 million on an adjusted basis or 60.8% of sales down 150 basis points from the prior year including new amortization of 60 basis points and FX driving about 50 basis points of headwind in Q4.
Pricing pressure moderated somewhat in the quarter coming in at 70 basis points of headwind on sales line and about 30 basis points in GP in Q4.
Although pricing pressure this quarter was better than it's been we don't believe at this point there has been any fundamental improvement in the pricing environment.
As we told you on the last call we had targeted integration-related spending and investments in the quarter and those exceeded our cost savings by about 10 basis points in Q4.
For the full year 2013 that brings adjusted gross profit as a percentage of sales to 61% even down 100 basis points from 2012 which includes about 30 basis points of headwind from FX 30 basis points from new amortization and 40 basis points of price pressure.
In this investment year we've taken the opportunity to apply the cost savings generated by our operations toward strategic investments in supply chain and procurement and certain other initiatives.
We're spending today for better leverage throughout the P&amp;L long term.
SG&amp;A expenses were $253.7 million for the quarter or 32.1% of sales.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A was $251.9 million or 31.8% of sales.
400 basis points above the prior year period with 120 basis points coming from the recent acquisitions and 160 basis points from our investment plan in emerging markets in addition to the impact from the new medical device excise tax this year.
For the full year 2013 adjusted SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales was 30% an increase of 240 basis points over the prior year.
290 basis points of the increased spending related to the medical device excise tax acquisitions our investment plan and increased spending in emerging markets.
Aside from these areas we saw 50 basis points of improved leverage on the rest of the business for the year.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $70.9 million for the fourth quarter or 9% of sales.
On an adjusted basis R&amp;D expense was $70.4 million or 8.9% of sales an increase of 220 basis points over the prior year period reflecting the increased investment related to our strategic growth plan and the recent acquisitions.
Interest expense was $11.3 million for the fourth quarter consistent with recent quarters.
Other income and expense was $957.9 million of income for the fourth quarter driven by the gains related to Gore and the sale of EP.
On an adjusted basis it was $1.9 million of income.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 39.5% due to the gains in the U.S.
On an adjusted basis it was 23.3% taking us to 25.2% on a full year adjusted basis better than we had been trending during the year.
We're seeing the impact from certain investments we've made to improve our supply chain over the last couple of years and we expect to see the benefits carryover into 2014.
That all adds up to EPS of $1.42 for Q4 excluding items affecting comparability bringing us in at $5.78 for the full year on the same basis.
As Tim said this exceeded the top end of our original guidance when adjusting for the timing of the Gore matter despite absorbing about $0.10 of dilution from our business development activity during the year.
We repurchased roughly 1.4 million shares of the company stock in Q4 including a portion of the Gore proceeds directed toward share buybacks in the quarter.
We anticipate completing the Gore-related buyback commitment in the coming months through open-market activity as market conditions permit.
And we've announced today an additional $500 million authorization for our share buyback program.
Between buybacks and dividends we returned over $800 million to shareholders in 2013 in what was also an active year on the acquisition front for us.
The average price we paid for buybacks during the year was $112.53 per share.
We believe we've been good stewards of investors' money and we plan to maintain this disciplined and balanced approach to capital allocation with strategic investments remaining our priority.
The balance sheet as of December 31 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of $1.1 billion versus $801 million at September 30.
For the full year AR days were 2 -- were down 2.3 days and inventory days were up 2.3 days driven primarily by the acquisitions late in the year.
Capital expenditures totaled $21.8 million for the quarter and $69.1 million for the year.
This was about $20 million lower than our original guidance for the year.
Some of these projects will now flow into 2014.
On the liability side total debt was $1.4 billion as of December 31 versus $1.5 billion at September 30.
Debt to total capital at the end of the fourth quarter was about 40% and total shareholder investment was 2.1 billion at December 31 2013.
So with a very active 2013 now in the books let's turn to financial guidance.
A year ago we outlined the transition and investment plan with the objective of returning the company to above-market revenue growth in a profitable and sustained manner longer term.
We are pleased that the first year of that plan came in pretty much as we expected if not a little bit better.
We were clear that those projections a year ago excluded any business development activity.
And as you know we had a very busy year in 2013 on that front.
From a revenue standpoint the acquisitions and the EP divestiture while only affecting a little over $100 million in revenue in total improved the longer-term organic growth profile of the business by roughly 50 basis points.
And we see significant long-term revenue opportunity with these new platforms.
On the earnings side the divestiture of EP and the acquisitions come with a little short-term dilution to EPS but are expected to become accretive to our profitability as we move into 2015 and beyond.
Another change from the original 2014 model is the stock price we assumed a year ago for share buybacks and the diluted share count.
Obviously our original projections for 2014 EPS would have been lower using today's stock price and with the later timing of the receipt of funds from Gore.
We also have a couple of initiatives including the mandatory unique device identifier program mandated by the FDA that will require more P&amp;L investment in 2014 than originally anticipated.
Another development from a year ago is the continued trend within the sector to reporting on a cash EPS basis.
We've been monitoring this trend mindful that many investors compare peer companies across a set of metrics that may not be equivalent.
And we don't want Bard to be an outlier as investors evaluate their alternatives.
With that as our motivation we've made the determination to begin guiding and reporting on a cash EPS basis beginning in 2014.
This will help us -- this will have us adding back tax effected intangible amortization to our adjusted EPS.
We will still be reporting gross margins operating margins and the entire P&amp;L including amortization but we will use cash EPS for our guidance and be clear about the impact of amortization.
I want to ensure you that our team remains focused and incented on revenue growth profitability and returns.
You should not expect changes to our disciplined approach to investments.
Our focus on return on invested capital and our internal financial models remain the same.
With that background and overview let's go through the 2014 financial guidance by line item excluding the impact of items that affect comparability.
For revenue we see 2014 constant currency growth between 6% and 8%.
That assumes between $130 million and $140 million coming from Gore royalties during the year.
We're assuming between 0 and 30 basis points of estimated growth from the net impact of the EP divestiture and the acquisitions completed in 2013.
I want to be clear that this revenue guidance assumes no fundamental improvement in the market growth rates from where they've been the last couple of years.
If the markets improve as some suggest then we would expect to do better.
Again as Tim said we think it's much too early to plan for any improvement in the underlying markets.
As far as constant currency revenue growth in our 4 disease state categories in 2014 we expect Vascular revenue growth to be between 5% and 8%.
The impact of Gore royalties offset by the loss of EP products has a net impact of 60 basis points of benefit for the category -- excuse me 600 basis points of benefit for the vascular category.
In Urology we expect revenue growth to be between 5% and 8% including about 600 basis points of growth contributed by the Rochester medical products.
We expect our Oncology business to grow between 2% and 5% constant currency in 2014.
This business has held up the best for us in this more challenging environment and PICCs specifically represent perhaps our largest single product opportunity in international markets.
And finally we expect our surgical specialties business to grow between 7% and 10% which includes approximately 700 basis points of benefit from the recent Medafor acquisition.
Certain distributed products we acquired from Rochester Medical will be recorded in our other category as we consider them non-focus.
So we estimate the other category will grow between 5% and 10% in 2014.
We expect our gross margin percent in 2014 to improve between 30 and 60 basis points over 2013.
This includes between 160 and 170 basis points of benefit due to the estimated royalty from Gore and 50 basis points of favorability from our estimated cost savings demonstrating the organic improvement consistent with our long-term projections.
We estimate FX to be about neutral at current rates.
The headwinds include amortization of 60 basis points and price is estimated to be between 40 and 50 basis points of pressure on the GP line in 2014.
We expect mix to be a headwind between 60 and 70 basis points in 2014.
This captures the negative impact of the EP divestiture including the OEM transition agreement which has us selling EP products to Boston Scientific at low margins; integration expenses; and the impact of the lower GP Rochester Medical products.
We believe all of these mix factors will be temporary in nature.
Over the next few years we would expect the Rochester margins to improve by approximately 1 000 basis points.
And by then we would expect to have the Boston transition agreement largely behind us.
With our higher level of sales we expect SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales to decline between 90 and 110 basis points in 2014 though we will continue to significantly invest this year in faster-growing markets and in the growth platforms we have acquired.
We expect further leverage in SG&amp;A as we look out to 2015.
We expect R&amp;D for 2014 to be above 8% as a percentage of sales again.
2014 will be the second year of significant investment for us.
While the level of spend as a percentage of sales may moderate going forward we will continue to invest in those projects that we believe provide attractive returns and sustainable above-market revenue growth into the future.
We expect interest expense in 2014 to be between $47 million and $48 million.
We expect the effective tax rate to improve about 100 basis points in 2014 compared to the full year 2013 range.
This does assume the renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit for 2014.
And we believe the tax rate should continue to decline somewhat in 2015 as the share of our profit outside of the U.S.
increases.
That all adds up to adjusted cash earnings per share in 2014 between $8.20 and $8.30 per share excluding any items that affect comparability.
The adjustment for amortization is about $0.90 per share after tax in 2014.
For comparative purposes the adjusted cash EPS number for 2013 was $6.51.
So our EPS growth this year is projected to be between 26% and 27%.
The sequential ramp between quarters this year will be meaningful as we expect the 2013 acquisitions and the investments we are making to deliver improving profitability as the year develops.
We're forecasting Q1 2014 with adjusted cash EPS between $1.83 and $1.87 per share compared to the prior year at $1.61.
We expect Q1 sales growth to be between 6% and 7% including the first quarterly royalty payment being received from Gore.
As for capital expenditures in 2014 as I've said we've had some carryovers from 2013 and we are beginning to make significant investments in our systems infrastructure and manufacturing capability across the organization in conjunction with our recent acquisitions.
So 2014 will begin a temporary step-up in capital expenditures which we expect to total between $100 million and $120 million.
We expect operating cash flow to be in the $700 million range in 2014.
As we look at the projections we made a year ago for 2015 the next year of this transition plan that we laid out last January we remain confident in our ability to hit those targets.
The margin headwinds I've discussed from the EP divestiture and the Rochester acquisition which obviously weren't contemplated a year ago may make it so that our operating margin doesn't return all the way back to 2012 levels next year but we expect to be on a trajectory of meaningful improvement.
And depending on the magnitude of the commercial success of Lutonix and other products slated for launch in 2015 it is possible we could still return to those sector-leading levels in that timeframe.
I'd like to conclude my comments by reminding you that the objective of our strategy is to position Bard from a portfolio standpoint to deliver above-market revenue growth for years to come.
The key measure of success for this transition plan will be the improvement in the organic engine.
This plan was never about maximizing EPS for 2014 or even 2015 but to strengthen the business for the long term in a disciplined and thoughtful way.
From a profitability perspective our objective is to provide double-digit EPS growth on a sustainable basis.
To the extent the environment or our returns are better or worse than anticipated we plan to adjust accordingly to invest appropriately in the business to increase our chances of providing long-term revenue growth and returns above the sector.
And with that I'll turn you back over to Tim.
Thank you Chris.
So as we enter the second year of the transition plan we spoke about a year ago we are encouraged by the events of the past year and we believe that continued execution of our plan will move us back to delivering above-market top and bottom line growth on a sustainable basis.
Again we measure success here over the long term and we're very excited about the future.
That concludes the formal part of the presentation.
I'll now turn the call back to our moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A.
Kathy? [Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So 2 questions 1 for Chris and 1 for John and Tim.
So first Chris just I want to make sure I've got a good understanding of the guidance.
So first of all for 2014 organic revenue growth if you exclude Gore and exclude divestitures and acquisitions just doing that math are you suggesting organic growth about 1% to 3% for 2014? Yes that's right Bob.
A little bit above that but yes the 1% to 3% the sort of -- we're guiding acquisitions and the impact of EP is 0 to 30 basis points so 1.5% to 3.5% on the high-end would be the organic number.
Research Division</strong> And then on the 2015 comments I just want to make sure I've got that right in terms of what you're communicating relative to EPS growth in 2015 versus what you said previously and also top line growth.
Again I think as Tim commented in his commentary given as the way we see the world now obviously in '14 we're now guiding to 6% to 8% revenue growth.
And we're now comfortable as we look at the future given the current market state that we would expect to be growing in the mid- to high-single digits which is really just firming up a little bit the notion of 200 to 300 basis points above the markets.
And obviously on the bottom line the objective has been and continues to be double-digit EPS growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's very helpful.
And then for John and Tim a question on drug-coated balloons because there's been a lot of discussion among investors about LEVANT 2 data and what we might see at 1 year and what that will mean clinically.
Obviously you guys know the data the 1 year data.
And John especially you know the clinical community as well as anybody.
So I just want to kind of ask the question from a big picture perspective how comfortable are you guys that this product will be a commercial success as you guys have defined it? And do you think that -- how convinced are you that doctors will react really favorably to the data when they see it? Let me talk at a higher kind of 50 000-foot level about my view in this business.
And to remind you Bob as even before I was CEO I was a group President for the Vascular business for number of years before that.
So this is an area that I've just personally spent a lot of time in.
And I would say my take on this is this is an area that continues to frustrate physicians with the tools that they have available to treat what is still a very much an undiagnosed and under treated disease by all attributes.
So I think that we all understand the issue with implants and stents and crossing of legs within the different stresses on leg stents if you will for vascular stents versus coronary stents.
Having another tool in the armamentarium that will help delay and further treatment in this I think they're going to think very positively about.
So I think all the directions are moving in the right area here and having this tool will be good -- very good for patients and I think that physicians will welcome having it in their armamentarium.
With that I'll turn it to...
Yes so Bob just to jump in.
Believe it or not it is John DeFord here.
With all of that said we're not taking anything for granted here.
We've got a lot of work to do with the FDA.
We're not taking anything for granted in the clinical community either so we're working hard to pull this information together and present it.
That said as Tim stated we're pleased with where we are with the results.
We fell in the range we expected to be within and so we're positive about moving forward.
There's again a ton of work for the team between now and launch.
And as I said we've filed our PMA.
We expect to get feedback from FDA typically at that 90-day roughly time period.
So that's kind of end of February is our expected time period again pretty much within their control.
And we would expect this to go to panel so that's always a bit of a wildcard as far as timing goes and it's also bit of a wildcard based on when you get through that when approval comes.
So we're pretty focused on meeting all the timelines that we've talked about and pretty excited about the technology and the platform so we're moving forward.
Our next question is from Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Let me start with 2014 and I'm really kind of hoping to end at 2015.
I think when I kind of digest the guidance commentary particularly given the second half performance in '13 the top line guidance was certainly the lower half of the range would seem conservative I think to most people on the call for '14.
So can you talk a little bit about the '14 conservatism relative to the '15 enthusiasm and kind of the going from the 1.5% to 3.5% range again assuming that's the right range for '14 I think most people feel that -- hopefully that's conservative to the mid to high single-digit commentary for '15.
Yes sure Mike.
Obviously conservatism versus aggressive I mean if you just think over the last 4 or 5 quarters we've seen sort of flat organic growth right.
So I think we continue to believe as we move into '14 and to Tim's comment that there's more moving parts in the U.S.
health care system than there's ever been that it's much too early to get more bullish about the U.S.
So 1% to 3% as we sit here today continues to be what we think is an appropriate range.
When you think about 2015 obviously Lutonix is a very important launch for us.
Obviously we're not taking approval for granted yet but we're working hard on that.
And that is a material contributor to growth.
And we're spending a lot of money as you know both in expanding our emerging markets infrastructure and on dozens of R&amp;D projects some of which we've talked about some of which we haven't.
And the acquisitions that we've added to the mix and x the EP sales which were declining put us in a position to have those new businesses actually be more impactful as we move into '15 and as we globalize those franchises which by and large excluding Rochester were U.S.-centric businesses.
So there's a whole bunch of moving pieces and that was the idea that we put together pieces and add things to the portfolio that 2 years from now you're talking about a different growth profile for the company.
So it's not one thing but it's a whole bunch of different things that we all think are going to contribute to the higher sustained growth.
Research Division</strong> So Chris and Tim chime in here as well when you think about the play out of 2014 we got a feel for how you're guiding to the first quarter are you assuming at least on the top line that the organic picture accelerates over the course of the year? That as you get to the back half of the year you start to get to some of the benefit of the emerging market investment that you started to get some of the benefit of the globalization as you called it of some of the acquisitions from last year.
And so we exit -- before we get the Lutonix benefit that we exit '14 at something closer to that mid-single digits or how do you think the year plays out? I'm thinking early part of the year versus latter part of the year? And I'll drop.
Yes I think obviously the 6 to 7 in Q1 and the 6 to 8 for the full year does imply that we would anticipate improving growth as we move to the back half.
And it is indeed a combination of the things you mentioned.
Obviously the acquisitions are growing.
We've got to integrate them we've got to execute on our growth plans but they do become more impactful as we move through even 2014.
And we've put a lot more bodies in the emerging markets.
They will become more productive over time we'll get more products into their hands over time and so that should also be a net positive for us as we move to the back half.
So those are probably the 2 primary drivers.
And again market dependent in terms of incremental headwind or tailwind in the market we're not assuming.
But there's again enough factors in play that should have growth improved as we move through the back half of the year.
Mike this is Tim.
I can't add a whole lot more to that other than the timing of these acquisitions was very end of the year really.
And the fact that these were for the most part established businesses without a big x U.S.
presence with the exception of Rochester.
We have historically done very well as we start to take those businesses direct in the various markets.
I would see a momentum build throughout 2014 on the revenue side.
We'll go next to Larry Keusch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tim could you -- Rochester obviously a big component of what you guys are talking about.
Could you talk a little bit about the strategy of getting into the home market in a bigger way and perhaps strategically why you want to be there? Sure.
Yes I think -- and I wouldn't narrow it to home.
I think specifically as you look at the U.S.
Europe maybe to a lesser degree U.K.
has already been there.
But within the U.S.
it's very clear that hospitals are trying to move treatment outside the hospital walls whether that be alternate site ambulatory care home care.
From all sources we tap into it's certainly moving in that direction.
So as we looked at our Rochester and it isn't the first time that we've looked at this.
We're continuing to look at our own internal portfolio and how to take advantage of this.
I'll just lay out one example which wasn't necessarily designed for this but which can accommodate [ph] the strategy very well.
If you go back to our -- and I'll use PICCs as an example our PICC technology.
A few years ago just a few years ago PICCs throughout the industry were a product that had to be flushed daily with pepper.
We came out with a product improvement that allowed it to be flushed weekly with saline.
Again not intended for a non-hospital use but clearly playing very positively into that kind of setting with that type of care protocol.
Similarly we came out with technology that allows you to confirm the placement of PICCs without an x-ray originally intended to save time within the hospital but again also plays very well to a non-hospital setting.
So there is a number of things we've been doing directionally heading towards that non-hospital setting.
And now it's continuing to identify those tweak some of the ones we already have and then look at other components that play into that kind of environment knowing that the environment's heading in that direction.
So I hope that kind of gives you a snapshot how we're looking at it strategically.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's perfect.
And then the other quick question on the PICC side of the market since you mentioned it was 2 quarters of double-digit growth I think if I've got my numbers right.
Again where do you think the market's growing and what's sort of driving that resurgence in your growth rates in the PICC side of the business? Well the PICC growth of 11% in the quarter was our strongest for the year.
We grew the year to 8% overall so a very solid year.
There's definitely 1 issue and that's our technology.
Clinicians are finding that the use of our technology the elimination of x-rays and having these confirmed placements done and giving therapy to patients quicker is in fact the right way to go from a technology and patient care standpoint.
And if you ask me what the market was growing I'd say in the low single digits.
Our next question is from Dave Turkaly with JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow-up on the guidance I know on the Oncology side.
You said 3 to 5 and mentioned that the o U.S.
opportunity was the largest for the company.
To follow up on that last question is there a market share thing happening here or why do we see that deceleration next year? Well I think the key is I guess I would call it a continue to build.
I mean our perspective is many of these markets for PICCs outside the United States aren't developed yet.
And the market development work that has to happen in terms of clinician training is indeed significant.
So overall from our vantage point building sales force is building training centers and training clinicians is really the key to the long-term strategy and adjunctive technologies which we have in the portfolio which will be coming out through our R&amp;D portfolio.
And Dave just to be clear 2013 was 5% for the Oncology disease state overall so the high-end of the range we're guiding to a similar growth in 2014.
Research Division</strong> And a quick follow-up you mentioned antimicrobial and antithrombogenic did you say by the end of the year? And could those -- when you look at the competitive landscape could those be sizable or a big advantage for you next year? Yes we did say that we're planning by the end of the year so we get our 510(k)s in.
Right now we're not talking about guidance for '15 on product level detail but we'd expect them as we said to be important to our portfolio although I think we do have another technology we want to talk about later in the year that I think is even more exciting.
The only thing I'd add is I think as it relates generally to coatings and specifically within PICCs the underlying performance of the base PICC is extremely important and we've seen that demonstrated time and time again over the years with competitive entries that have come in with one coating or another but the base PICC did perform very well.
So I think that's also as you try to understand those markets understanding that point's an important one.
Our next question comes from Brooks West with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> One for John Weiland and one for John DeFord.
For John Weiland on the stent business you said down 7% you've got some competitive launch that's come in there.
Just wondering if you can kind of tease out underlying volume price market share dynamics as you look at that product franchise in particular for the next couple of years? We're not expecting to be back in a growth mode with stents quite frankly.
The majority of the loss that we've had this year has been price loss.
Our unit -- we look at our unit share and look back over the last couple of years we've been pretty stable with our unit-share positions.
We would expect that to stay consistent.
There are a few more players in it but we've not seen a significant impact on our business as a result.
In fact I think in Q3 we were down 13% in stents.
Majority of that is based on the comps and when the competitor returned to the market after being off the market for a period of time.
So I think you'll see that as a slow decline business because of the number of players in it and there'll be a number of people continuing to get in.
Research Division</strong> And then for John DeFord -- thanks for the last comment.
For John DeFord following up you talked about the dialysis access in-stent restenosis I think it was the FLUENCY trial.
Can you talk a little bit more about just the size of that opportunity and kind of some of the dynamics around that market? Well I can talk about the dynamics and maybe John Weiland or Chris could jump in on some of the market size.
Being the R&amp;D guy I'm not as into those details.
But there is a high incidence of failure in both fistulas and grafts for the human dialysis patient.
And we have the Flair product that's available for grafts right now.
There's also a big issue with in-stent restenosis for central veins with these patients because you get such a change in the dynamics of the blood flow on the venous side.
So we think that this is going to be an important technology for treating those patients that have been treated with a stent to try to deal with central vein stenosis primarily.
And so we think that it's going to be a pretty interesting technology.
We were very pleased with the results of our clinical study.
I'm not going to disclose them today because we do think that would be a very interesting publication coming up but we did hit both our primary efficacy and safety endpoints there as well.
And John? The total market's approximately $200 million as we stand today globally.
We will go next to Matthew Dodds with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Chris you said SG&amp;A for '14 down 90 to 110 basis points year-over-year is that right? Yes that's correct Matt.
Research Division</strong> So if you look at the fourth quarter you hit about -- it looks like about 31% x the med tech tax.
I know some of that is the acquisitions the forward spend [ph] but the acquisitions aren't going to kind of disappear right away.
How do you get the cost down that much in '14? And is that heavily back-end-loaded? Actually I was trying -- I tried to be clear in the comment Matt.
I mean obviously sales are increasing pretty significantly in part because of the full year of the Gore royalty.
So there's leverage the spending is not declining.
There's no additional sales against the Gore royalty.
So it's really the way the math works.
Research Division</strong> And then amortization is it spread throughout the P&amp;L or is it all mostly in the gross margin? Or are you going to break it out by piece as well as you go forward? It's all in the gross margin Matt.
Our next question is from Raj Denhoy with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> 2 questions if I could.
First on emerging markets I'm not sure did you give the percentage of revenues in the quarter that came from emerging markets? 8.5.
Research Division</strong> 8.5 okay.
So I guess a slight uptick from last quarter.
Are you still -- given the sort of perceived turmoil in some of the markets are you as confident about growth coming from emerging markets as you've been? I think the turmoil you see is more at a macroeconomic level in the country.
I think if you were to dial in within -- I think a lot of that's consumer driven and maybe manufacturing export driven depending upon which emerging market you're looking at.
The rest of it health care is still very much for the countries and those governments an investment mode.
And as the kind of emerging middle class continues to be income earners within those economies they are spending money on health care.
I think we're kind of controlling our own destiny in that in 2013 and continuing into early 2014 we would have added approximately 200 positions into the selling environment in those emerging markets which are really a catalyst for future growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe if I could just add one on Lutonix.
Obviously there are still a lot of questions about the trial design and the educational efforts you guys are doing in order to sort of make people aware of the more robust nature of the trial you guys have put together.
I guess I'm curious how you feel that's resonating? Even still amongst the investment community there's a lot of questions about how this is going to play out.
As you talk to clinicians as you get ready to go to regulators do you feel that message is getting out or do you think you need to do more in the interim to get people aware of how different this trial really is? Well I think it's a combination of both.
The feedback we've been getting and I can tell you I was just at the ISET meeting last week and then LINC is going on right now but the team -- we had a number of physicians stop by to say that as they're digging into it and understanding the details of the study we got a lot of congratulations for running a very complex study that really tried to remove bias in multiple different ways.
So I think there's still some education that's going to be required there but the feedback's been extremely positive.
Research Division</strong> So if you do go to the regulators or if the data does come out as we all know it will and that those lines those TLR lines simply don't separate as much as we see in other trials how much of a hurdle would that represent? I mean is that something that you can educate people around or is it going to be something that is a hurdle longer term? I think longer-term it's not an issue because we've shown a strong biological effect that you saw at 6 months.
Without giving away too much detail here we're obviously looking long term as far as our results go and we think it's not going to be an issue.
Research Division</strong> Sorry just lastly but then how is that influencing the reimbursement you can get? If those lines don't separate does it becomes more difficult to get as much of a premium as perhaps you'd like? Well I think we obviously anticipate that the -- improvement in biological effect will translate into improvement in clinical effect and that'll give you increased reimbursement.
So we think it all fits together.
Our next question comes from David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Tim I just wanted to come back to some of your commentary on the rest of world growth.
In the fourth quarter was the number we heard 8% rest of world? And if that was the right number that number seems slower than the number you've had in prior quarters.
Can you give us a sense of what's driving that in rest of world and where the EM growth rates sort of looked in 2013 versus '12? Yes I'll comment -- I'll kind of give you the narrative comment and then Chris can chime in with the specific numbers if you want to drill down more into those questions there.
I think what you see with emerging markets for us as we continue to go direct in some of these markets.
You get a little bit of lumpy growth based on taking dealers up finding out exactly how much inventory is in there in the field I should say getting the tracings around those.
And what we don't want to do is flood the market.
We want some of that inventory to kind of burn off if you will in the marketplace.
So there's some -- I've referenced this before in prior calls but there's going to be some fits and starts relative to some of the markets over time.
Underneath all of that directionally we're very pleased with the way we're performing in those markets and how the results are stacking up.
The only couple of things I might add David is that rest of world number of 8% in Q4 includes countries like Australia and Canada right? So there are a number of other countries that are in the mix there.
Emerging markets at 8.5% of sales in Q4 we said continues to deliver very strong double-digit growth.
And so there will be some lumpiness to Tim's comment but with the investments we're making we expect that to continue for certainly for the foreseeable future.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
And Chris just for modeling purposes in the first half of the year.
With the Gore proceeds as it relates to the buyback how should we think about the pacing or your intent to use those proceeds to get the buyback completed as soon as possible? I don't want to signal too much.
Obviously depending on our acquisition activity we would expect to use free cash flow over the course of the year as well.
And as I said in the first number of months here we would anticipate completing the rest of that Gore-funded commitment.
But again with ordinary course buybacks and that increment you'll see us be somebody who is active over the course of the year as we typically would be.
Our next question is from Rick Wise with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the PAD [ph] being sort of a toolbox needing a tool box approach.
Can you just update us about your thoughts beyond your current products Lutonix et cetera? Do you need more than just stent balloons to be a dominant player or whatever atherectomy CTO crossing? Any updated thoughts on that front? Yes I'll talk generally as opposed to about specific technologies.
I still think that there -- relative to technology in this space I still think it's fairly early.
If you want to go back and look at kind of where -- how the coronary market played out over time I personally think that the peripheral vascular market is more challenging technically.
And some of the anatomy below the knee behind the knee et cetera can be extremely challenging.
And I think there's a lot to be learned and I think Lutonix will help people a lot in learning about the disease about when to intervene with the disease.
I think there's probably going to be some very interesting dialogue over time in part promoted by some of the data that comes out of the Lutonix and the general use of technology in the space about when to intervene and those kinds of things.
And as a result of those discussions I think there'll be additional technologies in this space that will keep our eyes open to -- we're obviously a big player in the space and be important to our customer and clinical base.
And obviously always looking out for what can help patients is important to us.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Chris gross margin you mentioned I think if I heard you correctly we exceeded our cost reduction goals by 10%.
Just remind us what's left of the cost reduction fund.
And maybe as part of that you could talk about the driver of that 1 000 basis point improvement longer-term improvement in Rochester gross margins.
Sure.
Actually in 2014 Rick when I laid out the gross margin guidance we're including 50 basis points of cost improvement in gross margin in 2014 which is frankly reflective of what we think we can do on an annual basis for the foreseeable future.
There's -- there continues to be a significant opportunity we believe on a product cost side.
We've done I think a terrific job on the labor side and the overhead side but we're in the early stages of generating ongoing cost improvement on the procurement side.
And so that's been a terrific contributor for us.
And again obviously the challenge in recent years has been prices have been offsetting that.
So we'll continue to do what we can organically to move the margin higher and we're confident in our ability to do that.
And Rochester from a similar standpoint will benefit over time as we consolidate the manufacturing and obviously benefit from the efficiencies that our teams can bring to what is a very successful but smaller company.
And that's going to be across the board from a procurement really process and labor side.
So we'll do it carefully and systematically over the next number of years here.
But again we're very confident that the operations team will be able to deliver that kind of improvement.
We'll go next to Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just on the amortization.
I just wanted to ask has that changed since I guess the September update? Because I had thought it was going to be a little bit more than $0.90 a year.
Is that just the final purchase price allocations and whatnot? Or am I just thinking of it wrong? Thanks for the question Kristen.
The actual number as we finished the purchase accounting is a bit lower.
It's about $106 million of pretax amort for '14.
And we're tax-affecting it at the jurisdictional tax rates not the corporate effective tax rates.
So when you do that you end up with $0.90 on that $106 million of gross.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then the commentary on R&amp;D spending I think you'd mentioned that for 2014 you were expecting it to be around 8% of revenues.
And guidance I guess last year when you guys talked about it a year ago was that you'd be kind of over 8%.
And it sounds like today you're saying to expect that number to kind of return down.
Have you changed your -- just thinking on internal R&amp;D given the number of acquisitions that you've completed.
And then should we expect additional acquisitions I guess in the year ahead as well? I think the guidance for '14 is actually to stay over 8% so that's very consistent with what we said last year.
We obviously ended this year over 8%.
We're going to continue spend at a level that has us still over 8% even obviously on a much higher revenue number in 2014.
What I said is as you get into 2015 we would anticipate that the -- while the nominal dollars may still grow obviously we anticipate the revenue line becoming larger.
And so we would expect a moderation in the level of spending as a percentage of sales as we get into '15 and beyond.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess any -- just going back to the special charges in the quarter.
The increase in reserves is that related to the pelvic floor mesh primarily or is there something else? Yes it's across a number of product categories with the pelvic mesh being one of them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question just in terms of Gore and just how should we think about the royalty going forward.
How are you guys I guess thinking about it in terms of whether or not the $130 million to $140 million level is something you would expect over the next couple of years? Any insights there in terms of what they're doing to probably reduce the amount that they're writing to you every quarter? I think we're comfortable with $130 million and $140 million for 2014 so that's obviously now part of our guidance.
And I think everything we're trying to do over time is create a more robust organic engine in the company that's going to drive top and bottom line growth.
And we're certainly not going to be sitting around here dependent on that royalty over time.
But we're not going to speculate right what they might do or what they could do and how that might affect '15.
We have a question from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you can talk a little bit more about some of the deals and the integration opportunities.
I think Chris in your prepared remarks you talked about 1 000 basis point improvement in the Rochester medical margins.
So maybe just conceptually you could talk to us about how you see these deals fitting in besides the simple fact of layering them in from a growth perspective.
But what are the opportunities to put these in your sales forces bag whereby 1 plus 1 equals 3 from a top line perspective? How long does something like that take? And maybe any more detail you can provide on that level of margin expansion? I'll start and maybe John Weiland wants to jump in as well.
I think that -- first of all we did 3 of them very close together from a timing point of view.
One of the nice parts about being decentralized like we are those are 3 different businesses.
So the Urology business is integrating the Rochester deal the Surgical business the Medafor and then the TRUE Balloon's going to Vascular which makes the integration that much easier.
It's 3 different businesses dealing with that.
They all have well-established sales forces.
We clearly always sell PTA technology so our sales force understands that.
The indication for this and the application's a little different but the training curve is not very high.
As it relates to the surgical sealant or hemostasis business again a business that we -- the hemostasis we've been in for a while.
So we understand that market that call point the same sales force.
And then the Urology one is just almost a direct overlay with a couple of exceptions regarding where the product is actually sold.
I mentioned earlier that internationally given the size of these businesses with the exception of Rochester they virtually had little to nothing over there outside the U.S.
relative to direct presence.
We have the infrastructure there so it's very easy for us to pull that in.
So it's about as seamless an integration on that sales and marketing front that you could expect given the similarity of the product line.
And I think that if you look at -- it's not glamorous.
It's one of the strengths of the organization is to be able to integrate these into our sales forces worldwide.
And again interesting example is that with the Neomend and Medafor acquisitions we took what was a small sales force in BioSurgery with Neomend and now have a very sizable sales force in the United States brand-new sales force in the United States selling 3 major product lines in biosurgery.
We would expect big things from that.
Tim talked about the Rochester side of it.
But I guess a good example would be if you looked at the growth that we had in the fourth quarter in Europe which we haven't talked much about where we grew at 8%.
Excluding EP when you look at the growth drivers many of those were the platforms that we've built over the last 2 years: Biopsy PTA StatLock catheter stabilization; therapeutic temperature management; biosurgery were the drivers that's how you get it back to the growth levels that we're trying to drive it through.
And I think the integration of past and new acquisitions is going extremely well.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe just a follow-up or a segue from that.
As we look at the SG&amp;A guidance when I just sort of lump in call it $135 million the midpoint of your guidance on the royalty it does look like on an organic basis you are still spending quite a bit.
And even some of the Gore proceeds do look to be getting reinvested.
Should we be thinking about return timelines any differently from some of the investments you're making? It sounds like 2015 was the year that we're going to see sort of an inflection point.
But is there anything you're seeing in the investment program that suggests either the return could be longer than you'd initially contemplated or a ramp is steeper but further out? I mean is that a fair way to kind of look at the SG&amp;A spending or not? Well I think when you look at the total investments include R&amp;D in there as well.
50% of that incremental investment was R&amp;D 40% was SG&amp;A of the Gore money if you want to think about it that way.
R&amp;D takes a longer period of time.
Returns are both very good.
The SG&amp;A stuff it's pretty much on schedule with what we had planned and there's been no change of expectation from what we had planned originally with any of those investments in those emerging markets.
I'd say the only variability that we have in our R&amp;D investing as we stand here today is that we're executing very well on all the projects and on our timelines the only area that is outside of our control is exactly when you get approval through the FDA.
That's the only wild card that I see in some of the projects that we have remaining.
Yes but we would expect as I said David as we get into '15 to see more leverage.
As I said we've leveraged sort of the non-investment parts of the business in 2013.
We said last year 2014 would continue to be a big investment year.
And obviously we're continuing to build the infrastructures in these emerging markets and we've added these new platforms through these acquisitions.
All of which we would expect to lever more effectively as we get into 2015 and beyond.
And next we have Matt Taylor with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just have a follow-up on Lutonix.
I want to ask about a couple of things.
One was the last 2 quarters you had mentioned that it's been a growth driver in the Vascular business.
I was just wondering if anything has changed there in Europe.
And then also do you have any commentary that you'd like to share in terms of how you think the failure of the balloon [indiscernible] trial from Medtronic impacts your outlook for that indication or for your business at all? I would just start and I'll turn it to John DeFord is that no we've seen a continued escalation in our ability to execute in Europe.
And John I'll let you talk about the Medtronic trial.
Sure.
You guys are probably aware that yesterday Medtronic did present or Dr.
Zeller presented Medtronic results at the LINC meeting.
Although I wasn't there I did get a briefing on it.
And I think we were surprised that there was no biologic effect that was shown in that study.
Again it's a very different kind of technology.
It was a very different study.
At this stage we really don't think you can draw conclusions on a class effect or draw conclusions on our technology in particular.
So we've got a study ongoing as I said and we've got just a handful of patients enrolled at this point.
But we're watching it closely.
And at this point we're excited about it and bullish on it and we'll see where it takes us.
Your next question is from Matthew O'Brien with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping we could start on emerging markets.
If my math is correct it looks like the performance in that business accelerated during the fourth quarter.
Was that a function of new products or new geographies? And then within that question as I look at the emerging markets performance and again the growth there it looks like that should contribute about 100 120 basis points to the organic growth in 2014.
So that would imply that you've got some negative thoughts around the U.S.
or Europe even though both those geographies had improved recently.
Can you just let me know if that's an appropriate way to characterize it.
Well I don't think that we said we saw an escalation in the growth rates in our emerging markets.
We were happy with what we produced in Q4 and our expectations are significant based on the number of physicians that we've added in emerging markets in the year 2013 and its impact on '14 and '15.
I don't think they're going to be as impactful in terms of a contributor to organic growth in 2014.
Obviously the sales base is bigger and obviously the acquisitions that we've made are -- there's almost no emerging market component to them.
While EP did have actually a fairly significant emerging market component to it.
So I think from a contribution standpoint to growth 2014 won't look that much different I think from 2013 from an organic standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on share count for 2014 can you just give us some specifics on what we should expect in Q1 and then for the full year? No.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Rich Newitter with Leerink Partners.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Ravi Misra in for Rich.
You mentioned something about a FDA mandatory device identifier program.
Can you just talk about what kind of investment that's going to require on the P&amp;L where that's going to show up? It's a multiyear program.
We have to identify every device.
It requires relabeling every device we manufacture.
So it's actually a multiyear tens of millions of dollar investment for us in systems infrastructure and also relabeling across all of our manufacturing plants around the world.
And the P&amp;L burn because they're actually -- there's P&amp;L spending associated with the relabeling that's not capitalizable.
That will flow through the gross margin line over the coming years.
So it's a headwind for us on the gross margin line and it's a tens of millions of dollars investment for us over the next 3 years.
And just to be clear this is not a requirement unique to Bard.
It's an industry-wide requirement.
Yes.
But one thing I'd add is because of our number of SKUs which is in the 15 000 range.
For a company our size given our breadth it's a much more significant burden if I can call it a burden on Bard relative to our size than virtually any other company in the space.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe if I can ask how much of an impact would that -- but then that's obviously factored in to your 30 to 60 bps improvement in 2014.
I mean tens of millions would be a run rate on an annual basis? No.
It's going to be less than that because a significant portion of the investment at least half of it will be able to be capitalized and amortized over a longer period of time.
But in '14 and '15 it will be less than $10 million but in the single millions of dollars in terms of P&amp;L.
And then once the project is done the depreciation will begin to burden the P&amp;L but in a less significant way.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe one last run before I drop off.
The continence business looks like it returned to positive growth in the quarter.
What's your outlook for this in 2014? Well the continence business really returned to growth as a result of the Rochester products being added into the continence franchise.
So I wouldn't expect that you'd see a significant difference in our continence business.
The full year we were down 7% in continence and I would expect that'll be a very low or negative growth business for us moving forward.
Yes.
Within that category the Rochester products will continue to grow very nicely.
It's just relative to the base they're not big enough to swing it.
Our next question is from Josh Jennings with Cowen &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> First one just for Chris I was -- sorry to ask you to do this but just can you clarify your definition of organic growth for your guidance in 2014 2015? What's included in '14 what's included in '15? It's the net impact of the loss of the EP sales as compared to 2013 plus the impact of the revenue associated with the acquisitions.
Obviously they came on during different points during the year.
They're expected obviously to grow.
We have plans to have them grow at very attractive rates.
The OEM agreement with Boston Scientific is somewhat out of our control in terms of the level of sales.
But that'll contribute in '14.
And when we net those against each other we're including again 0 to 30 basis points from the net effect of those transactions.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just in terms of your portfolio -- disease portfolio assuming that Lutonix gets approved and that product is in your bag in the U.S.
could you just talk about your current portfolio and what holes you have to fill potentially if you want to be kind of a full-service provider for interventionalists? I think we have a very full bag as we speak today.
And then we're always looking for opportunities that would add growth platforms to it.
Not necessarily fill in the bag per se because we don't think that's the right strategic approach to the business is just to fill the bag.
But where we see growth platforms developing and an opportunity be it business development to enter a segment that has sustainable growth and the opportunity to be #1 or #2 in terms of that product line growth area we'd be very serious about it.
Then we'll go next to Mike Matson with Needham &amp; Company.
It's actually Brad filling in for Mike.
I just have 2 quick questions.
First back to emerging markets.
Could you give more color on the number of actual salespeople that you added compared to your expectations? Sure I certainly can.
We had the expectations that we would add 201 during the fiscal year 2013 we added 203.
Great.
And then just another quick one and then that's it for me.
Can you tell us how much of the Gore cash you used for share repurchase thus far? We used a portion of 1/2 the after-tax proceeds so I'm not going to be more specific than that but a portion.
We have a follow-up from Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to check in again the drug-coated balloon expectations.
I think a year ago you guys had talked a little bit about your goals for 2015 of $100 million in sales.
I just wanted to get your thoughts around if you think that number is still a good number we should think about.
And also is that a kind of net number if you will because I just also want to see how you guys are thinking about any potential cannibalization from the kind of base stent business as well? That's certainly our strategic outlook and we have not changed our opinion at all Kristen.
And no that is not net.
That is the sales of Lutonix as we've identified it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Would you expect to see any sort of pressure on the stent business? And then just more broadly I guess as we're looking into 2014 what are your expectations for peripheral stents just given some of the pricing headwinds that you have been referencing as well as some potential increased competition in that area? Well it certainly could have an impact on the stent business in 2015.
But as you know the stent business is relatively broad.
So it would impact the whole industry so to speak if this technology is indeed as effective as we hope it is.
And we've said I think a little earlier today that our stent business will continue to be in a slow decline mode based on new entrants to markets and based on our position as we exist today.
I think Kristen this is Tim the other thing to keep in the back of your mind as you track this going forward the largest component within our Stent business is in longer like stents.
And the Lutonix balloon at least initially when it comes out will be in lengths available shorter than that significantly shorter than the stents available.
So...
15 10 millimeter.
Yes.
I think you need to -- so our view of it is Yes this may end up eating into the stent business.
It may not necessarily be our stent business.
And there are no further questions.
So this does conclude our Q&amp;A session.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Bard's management for closing or additional comments.
Thanks Kathy.
With that I'd like to thank all of you for joining us this afternoon.
And I'd like to take this opportunity as I always do to thank Bard employees around the world for their hard work dedication and commitment and we look forward to talking to all of you after the first quarter.
Good evening.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and choosing AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the C.R.
Bard Inc.
First Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will be conducting a question-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Christopher S.
Holland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information and the information under the caption risk factors each in Bard's 2013 10-K including disclosures of the factors that could cause actual results to defer materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance for the company and its individual product franchise.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings press release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of April 22 2014 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information.
Unless otherwise noted all comparisons are to the prior year period.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Cice.
Good afternoon everybody.
I'd like to welcome you to Bard's first quarter 2014 earnings call and thank all of you for taking the time to join us today.
I would expect this presentation portion of the call to last about 25 minutes and we are going to try to keep the call to about an hour.
The discussion today will go as follows.
I will begin with an overview of the results for the first quarter.
John Weiland our President and COO will review first quarter product line revenue.
John DeFord our Senior VP Science Technology and Clinical Affairs will give you an update on our product development pipeline after which Chris Holland our Senior VP and CFO will review the first quarter income statement and balance sheet as well as our projections for second quarter and then finally we will close with Q&amp;A.
First quarter 2014 net sales totaled $799.3 million.
That's up 8% over the first quarter last year on both on an as-reported and a constant-currency basis.
Currency impact for the quarter was unfavorable by about 10 basis points.
The quarterly royalty payment from Gore which is included in revenue for the first time this quarter was $37.6 million which was an increase of 4% over the payment made to the court a year ago.
The net impact from acquisitions less the EP divestiture was a benefit of about 40 basis points to revenue in first quarter.
Net income for the first quarter was $148.4 million and diluted earnings per share were $1.86 that's up 64% and 72% respectively.
Excluding certain items that affected the comparability results between periods which Chris will cover later Q1 net income was $134.9 million up 12% and diluted adjusted earnings per share which excludes amortization were $1.91 that's up 19%.
This was above our expectations mostly due to the stronger revenue and represents a good start to what is an important year of execution for us.
Looking at revenue growth geographically compared to the same quarter in 2013; first quarter net sales in the U.S.
grew 11% compared to a year ago.
Excluding the royalty payment which is reported entirely in the U.S.
U.S.
sales were up 3%.
On a constant currency basis in Europe we were up 3% Japan was down 3% and our other international businesses were up 6%.
We told you that divested EP sales had a higher mix in emerging markets than our newly acquired sales.
While our emerging markets grew a healthy double-digits organically again this quarter they now represented about 7% of total sales in Q1 off this new baseline.
As John Weiland takes you through the sales results you'll notice that each business performed well relative to the guidance ranges we provided for the full year.
The Vascular business benefitted from a higher than expected royalty payment from Gore.
Remember that its royalty payments related to the product sales from the fourth quarter which is typically their highest sales quarter of the year so you shouldn't extrapolate that level throughout 2014.
We also saw a good initial performance from our 2013 acquisitions and we are pleased with the integration activities for each of those businesses.
However I would caution you against making any more of these results then a positive start to the New Year.
We are sticking with our original guidance for 2014 as we believe our markets continue to experience uncertainty.
The organic sales growth in the U.S.
was close to flat in Q1 and our investment plan is not expected to start delivering accelerated sales growth in emerging markets until later on this year.
So we've got a lot of work in front of us to achieve the objectives of our strategic investment plan.
I can assure you the entire organization is focused on executing on the things we can control to accelerate the long term growth profile of the portfolio.
So with that let me turn you over to John Weiland for a review of the product line revenue.
Thanks Tim.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start let me point out that I'll be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior year period on a constant currency basis unless noted otherwise.
We'll begin with Vascular.
Total net sales were $219.2 million up 8% from last year on both a constant currency basis and an as reported basis.
Excluding the royalty payment from Gore and the impact from the divestiture of EP total Vascular sales were flat in Q1 with the United States business down 4% and internationally sales were up 5%.
Sales in our surgical graft category were down 1% this quarter.
Excluding the royalty payment our Endovascular business was flat in the first quarter.
Within Endovascular our biopsy products were up 5% driven by strength internationally.
Sales in our peripheral PTA line increased 7% in Q1 with healthy double-digit growth outside of the United States driven by sales of our Lutonix drug-coated balloon.
Our vena cava filter line grew 5% in Q1.
We told you that we expected continued significant price headwinds in our stent business and those sales declined 11% in the first quarter compared to the prior year.
We expect to see this trend of significant price pressure here to continue.
Lets now move to urology total net sales were $201.4 million up 7% versus Q1 of last year on both a constant currency and an as-reported basis.
The United States business was up 5% and internationally we grew 12%.
This growth was driven by a good quarter from the products acquired from the Rochester Medical.
Without these products our global urology sales would have been flat in Q1.
These products are spread throughout the urology category.
Sales of vitamin and self-catheters are recorded in basic drainage.
Male external catheters are recorded in continence and the fees collected from operating the dispense appliance contract in the UK are recorded in neurological specialties.
The third party sales sold through the DAC as well as other ancillary non-focused products are reported in our other category which of course are not included in the Urological sub totals.
Our basic drainage business was up 7% in Q1 with about 500 basis points of growth from the acquired products.
Our I.C.
Foleys was flat globally and down 3% in the United States.
Our continence business was up 25% in Q1 driven by the new male external catheter sales.
Our legacy continence product lines declined 14% this quarter within the range of recent experience.
Sales in neurological specialties were up 6% in Q1 with our brachytherapy business down 8%.
We are seeing continued growth in our targeted temperature management products and we remained encouraged by the long term prospects here.
And finally standalone sales of our StatLock catheter stabilization line decreased 4% in Q1.
So next lets move to Oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $219 million an increase of 6% over Q1 last year on both a constant currency and as-reported basis.
Geographically net sales in the United Sales were up 5% and international sales were up 11%.
Our port business grew over Q1 of last year and our PICC revenue was up 11%.
The performance of our PICC business has really been outstanding for us over multiple years.
Even during the very challenging market conditions of the last five years our PICC revenue in first quarter 2014 was up over 50% compared to Q1 2009 essentially all organic.
Our team has done a nice job addressing unmet needs here and we're just getting started on what we think is a significant long term outside of the United States opportunity.
And to close out the category our Vascular Access ultrasound product line was down 5% this quarter and our dialysis catheter product line was up 8%.
So lets finish up with Surgical Specialties.
Total net sales in this category were a $135.2 million up 13% on a constant currency basis and 12% on a reported basis.
U.S.
sales were up 10% and international sales grew 20% in the quarter.
About 1 000 basis points of the global growth was due to the sales of Arista acquired in Q4 2013.
We are very pleased with the formation and early success of our biosurgery business which has more than doubled compared to Q1 a year ago.
Our soft-tissue repair business grew 3% this quarter.
Within soft tissue our synthetic hernia business grew double digits again this quarter while biologics were down 12%.
We have the broadest portfolio in hernia repair across all types of products with an especially synthetic portfolio.
We are working with physicians to identify the right product for the right patient and provide a full range of options to them.
To the extent biologic devices remain under pressure in favor of synthetic or hybrid products we believe we're well positioned to address the needs of the market.
Our hernia fixation line declined 12% this quarter as we projected continued declines here and our performance irrigation line was down 6%.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I will now turn you over to John DeFord.
Thanks John and good afternoon everyone.
The first quarter of 2014 has certainly been very active but with our Analyst Day only a few weeks from now I'll just focus on some highlights today.
I will start with our drug-coated balloon program.
As I am sure all of you did we saw the impressive results presented by Medtronic at the Charring Cross.
At this point we know they have a stronger headline than we do as their 12 months results were better than our six month results and nobody should expect our primary patency our Freedom from TLR numbers to increase from six to 12 months.
We also know that our study design was more rigorous than theirs in reducing bias as LEVANT 2 blinded the physicians to both the duplex results and the treatment arm on follow-up.
We don't believe it's possible to fairly compare their results to ours without having a greater level of detail that typically comes out through the FDA process which is likely months away for them.
The key will be how closely their study populations represents the PAD patients that doctors see every day what was the impact of bias and what is the comparable durability of results overtime.
At the end of the day we believe both products will be effective in treating PAD without leaving a permanent implant behind.
And doctors will choose the device they feel most comfortable with considering multiple factors including the credibility of the evidence the safety profile and the delivery and handling of the device.
But before we get there we both need to get through FDA which is our immediate priority and a step we're not taking for granted.
Our PMA for SFA in popliteal indications was submitted in November and is under interactive review with FDA.
FDA has published the circulatory systems' panel date of June 12 and we're tentatively targeted for that meeting.
However I caution you that this is still subject to change.
Also the outcome or timing of FDA's decision is not in our control but at this point we believe we're on track to hit our original target of an early 2015 launch.
In regards to the potential publication LEVANT 2 investigators completed a draft to the manuscript several months ago.
However FDA requested changes in the statistical analysis and the authors felt was best to wait until there was agreement on all key analyses.
This caused the investigators to delay their submission.
However it has been submitted and is under review.
Again this process is not within our control but if accepted we believe it's reasonable that the publication could come out in the coming months.
Beyond LEVANT 2 and its continued access registry our LEVANT 2 Japan study is also rapidly enrolling and we continue to anticipate completing enrollment around mid-year.
In our Below the Knee study we have most of the sites up and enrolling and we are making reasonable progress.
They were bit slower than we had hoped.
This study is in a much sicker patient population as we're treating critical limb ischemia not claudicants.
At this time we anticipate enrollment to continue well into 2015.
We also recently commenced enrollment in the U.S.
IDE study for the treatment of SFA in proximal popliteal instent-restenosis.
This randomized controlled study is slated to enroll about a 150 patients.
And finally we're on track for the European launch of our Coronary DCB products later in Q2.
Moving to some of our other vascular developments on our last call we told you about our PMA filing for the Fluency Plus family for the AV Access Instent Restenosis indication.
Launch is predicated on PMA approval currently estimated later this year.
On our last call we told you about our new balloon expandable iliac stent graft program.
Development and preclinical testing is going well and we remain on schedule for our IDE submission expected later this quarter and we anticipate our European launch in Q3.
Next within our urology business we launched our new SURESTEP Foley Tray in Q1 and anticipate the launch of our DIGNISHIELD with medicine delivery capabilities later this quarter.
In our targeted temperature management portfolio we rolled out a new software configuration in Q1 and we're progressing well in our development efforts to further tailor the technology for using neonates and pediatric patients.
We continue to anticipate the start of studies of these new pads in Japan in the back half of the 2014.
Finally we have a number of new endo-urology product initiatives underway including a new guide wire that we anticipate launching in early Q3.
Moving to oncology in Q1 we began the rollout of our new Site-Rite Vision II ultrasound platform.
Vision II is our new high-end ultrasound system with full color Doppler and broad imaging capabilities.
The Vision II includes an integrated Sherlock 3CG system with a large screen that allows the user to monitor catheter advancements and take confirmation simultaneously.
We plan to launch our freehand stereotactic system for vascular access now called Pinpoint GT in Q3.
This technology is designed to improve the success of first-attempt needlestick access across multiple clinical applications and is backwards compatible to the installed base of Site-Rite Six and Vision I products.
Next I am really excited to tell you of the launch earlier this month of our new Sherlock 3CG Diamond product.
We kept this new 3CG enhancement in stealth mode over the last couple of years to keep the competition in the dark.
Diamond utilizes a proprietary signal processing technology to identify the P-wave for the clinician and along with the P-wave displays a green diamond on the screen upon reaching the desired catheter tip location.
The Diamond will be available for upgrade for all our existing 3CG users around the world.
We believe this new technology will further simplify the training and use of this popular product and remove some of the barriers that may have existed due to the scale or training required to interpret an ECG.
In PICC we are tracking toward regulatory filings in 2014 for both an antimicrobial PICC family and a broad thrombo-resistant PICC offering.
Both are slated to launch upon FDA clearance now estimated in the first half of 2015.
We also continue to make steady progress on our second stealth PICC platform that we believe will be the foundation for several new product families.
We anticipate launching our first product early next year.
But for competitive reasons we're going to hold back further details at this point.
Moving to our PowerGlide Midline Catheter family on the last call we told of our plans to launch 18 and 22 gauge devices.
I am pleased to report that both are rolling out now and will expand the utilization of this important and successful platform.
Our simplified insertion technique and all-in-one design has already made this product family a popular alternative to PIVs for patients who need venous access for up to 29 days but don't require central access.
I'll close today with surgery our biologics franchise is focused on two key technologies.
First we anticipate launching additional sizes of our XENMATRIX porcine graft family later this quarter upon FDA clearance.
These new sizes round out our XENMATRIX offering and should enable us to better serve the demands of our customers.
Second we mentioned previously our activity on a new antibiotic-coated XENMATRIX product family.
This first of a kind product will utilize our proprietary coating which is intended to preserve the integrity of the biologic graph and abdominal wall reconstruction procedures.
The coating has demonstrated broad spectrum safety and efficacy against several typically encountered bacteria.
The product is under FDA review and based on our experience across the company with combination products we're reluctant to estimate launch timing until we've had more feedback from the FDA.
Moving to our BioSurgery product family which includes Progel Arista AH and Avitene we're pleased to communicate progress on several programs.
First in our Progel sealant family we completed enrollment in the video-assisted and robot-assisted thoracic surgery study in Q1 and we anticipate completing all follow up and monitoring visits this quarter.
We expect to file our PMA for this new indication in Q3 with launch upon approval currently estimated in Q2 of next year.
Next we continue to actively enroll patients in our vascular sealant pivotal IDE study.
This study should expand our indications beyond thoracic surgery to include vascular applications of Progel.
We expect enrollment to continue through 2014 with patient follow up into early next year.
Current plans anticipate our PMA submission in the second half of 2015 and launch following approvals likely in the back half of 2016.
We are also working on additional expansion of this platform technology along with the new hemostasis platform that Ill hold the details until we near our next IDE submission.
In mesh fixation we are continuing to advance on three products.
The first is the spring-loaded resorbable tech device named OPTIFIX which remains on track for its expected launch in the first half of 2015.
This is a highly competitive space so I am going to hold further details on the other projects until we get closer to launch.
With the breadth of our portfolio although it seems like Ive been a talking a while Ive only really been able to hit a few of the highlights today.
Weve got some exciting technologies we are leveraging in to new products and I look forward to sharing more information in June.
So before I turn you over to Christ Id like to again extend to you an invitation to our annual analyst meeting.
This meeting will be at the New York Palace Hotel on June beginning at 4:30 PM.
For those that can attend in person the meeting will be available by webcast.
Thanks for your attention now here is Chris.
Thanks John.
Let me start by covering certain items that affect the comparability of our result between periods.
We had acquisition-related items of $3.1 million pretax a pretax gain on the sale of an investment of $7.1 million and reversal of tax accruals of $10.9 million related to the completion of IRS examinations for the year 2008 through 2010.
The P&amp;L impact of these items is detailed in the notes to the financial statements and in the reconciliation accompanying our Q1 earnings press release.
Now lets go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $489.8 million or 61.3% of sales for Q1.
On an adjusted basis GP was $490.4 million or 61.4% of sales up 100 basis points from the prior year quarter.
This was a little ahead of our expectations and reflects a solid start to the year.
The benefit from the Gore royalties was a 190 basis points in the quarter and our cost improvements drove a 130 basis points of improvement.
This metric can be lumpy and for the full year we still expect to deliver cost improvements in line with our original guidance.
New amortization of intangibles related to transactions closed in the last 12 months cost us about 80 basis points year-over-year this quarter and FX was a headwind of about 50 basis points in Q1 in GP due primarily to the cost of our hedging contracts.
Pricing pressure was unfavorable by 120 basis points on the revenue line and about 40 basis points in GP this quarter in line with our expectations.
The impact from mix which I will remind you includes the temporary headwinds of the EP divestiture and the initial lower GPs from the Rochester products was about 50 basis points of headwinds in Q1.
As we look to Q2 we expect gross margins to be at a similar level to the prior year second quarter.
SG&amp;A expenses were $236.8 million for the quarter or 29.6% of sales an increase of $0.40 on both the reported and adjusted basis.
We expect Q2 to be at a similar percentage.
We are on track with our annual guidance of improvement for the full year as SG&amp;A expenses increased over the force of 2013 and we expect improving P&amp;L leverage as we move through 2014.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $64.3 million for the first quarter or 8% of sales on both a reported and adjusted basis the same percentage as Q1 a year ago but on 8% higher sales.
We expect R&amp;D expense in Q2 to be over 8% of sales consistent with our full year guidance and our investment plan.
Interest expense was $11.1 million for the first quarter.
Other income and expense was $6 million of income for the first quarter as reported and $900 000 of income on an adjusted basis.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 19.2% on a reported basis and 24.9% on an adjusted basis as the mix of income came in somewhat stronger in higher tax jurisdictions like the royalty payment in the U.S.
for example.
I'll remind you that our full year guidance assumes the removal of the R&amp;D tax credit but that will not be included in the reported number until it is renewed.
Diluted shares for the period were $78.5 million as we repurchased 1.8 million shares in the first quarter.
Our commitment to return half of the after tax proceeds of the Gore bolus to shareholders through repurchases has now been fulfilled and we had roughly $300 million left on our existing repurchase authorization at March 31.
The net results is adjusted EPS of $1.91 a share which was above our expectations for the quarter as Tim said.
The balance sheet as of March 31 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of approximately $1 billion versus $1.1 billion at December 31.
For the quarter accounts receivable days were down 3.5 days and inventory days were up 1.1 days.
Capital expenditures totaled $22.7 million for the quarter.
On the liability side total debt was $1.4 billion as of March 31 no change from December 31st.
Debt-to-total cap at the end of the first quarter was about 41% and total shareholder investment was $2.1 billion at March 31 2014.
In looking at Q2 we're expecting constant currency sales growth between 6% and 8%.
From an adjusted EPS standpoint excluding items affecting comparability we see the second quarter in the range of $1.98 to $2.02 per share consistent with our expectation of improvement as we move through the year.
We remained focused on delivering adjusted EPS between $8.20 and $8.30 for the full year.
And with that I will hand the call back to Tim.
Yeah thanks Chris.
That does conclude the presentation.
I'll now return the call back over to moderator to facilitate Q&amp;A and I would ask to accommodate the number of investors on the call we would request you limit yourself to one question only.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question does come from Mike Weinstein from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Maybe I can start with John Deford.
John I wanted to maybe ask you a couple of quick questions on Lutonix.
First just a commentary about the submission and the FDA requesting changes in its analysis and when you -- when the offers were submitted could you just talk a bit about that request? And then second I know that there was a registry that was being done post the initial randomization period.
Will that registry be presented at the FDA panel on the 12th and I'd assume that will be the first time we'll see it? Thanks.
Sure so Mike two things one the statistical analysis our original plan we thought was more conservative and it turned out to be more conservative than what FDA wanted.
So they came back and suggested a different analysis for one of our primary endpoints.
It's not a big deal.
It didn't change our number materially but it did change them a little bit.
And so of course we informed the authors of this change FDA had suggested and they felt that it didn't make sense to have two sets of numbers out into the public.
So they held back until all of those analysis were completed and FDA was comfortable with it and then they submitted.
The registry data was the additional 657 patients.
We will anticipate presenting a significant amount of that especially from a safety perspective which was the idea behind the additional registry that FDA had asked for.
So we would expect that that information would be presented at panel.
Okay and Tim just one bigger picture question on just on the growth acceleration story? The first quarter looks like it is pretty similar to the fourth quarter it's like -- growth of about 2.5% the acquisitions will be doing well but those don't get into the numbers the new guidance for the second quarter implies somewhat similar range.
So is it your expectation that as we go into the back half of the year that we could see some pick-up in the top line before we get to Lutonix and some of the other new products you will be talking about in 2015? Yeah I think Ill even mentioned a word I said anyway that we would expect some of the investments in the emerging markets to pick up towards the end of the year and you should start to see that.
Okay all right well Ill circle in let others ask some questions Ill jump in later thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brooks West from Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys thanks for taking the question.
John DeFord I want to circle back again on your comments on expectations around Lutonix.
I want to make sure that I understand that correctly.
Did you say that nobody should expect an increase in TLR rates or primary patency from 6 to 12 months and I want to think about that in terms of the benefits or the control to make sure that we all understand kind of what you are guiding us to there in terms of the data that we are going to see? So what I said was you wouldnt expect to see an increase in primary patency rights over our six month numbers nor would you expect to see an increase in freedom from TLR over our six months number.
So the 12 months result you would expect would be less in both instances than the six month.
Okay and so obviously we are all concerned about those TLR lines that appear to be coming together at six months.
Is there any read through from your commentary in terms of what that might look like at 12 months? I wasn't intending to give you a read through; at this stage we are trying to maintain at the request of the authors the details of the twelve month data.
But if that June 12 date holds you should see their publication or the June 12 date the information will be out there.
Okay fair enough Ill stick to the one question request and jump back in line.
Thanks Brooks.
And next I have the question of Robert Hopkins from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Can you hear me okay? Yeah we can.
Hey so I just wanted to follow up on that.
John is there any message here on whether or not the TLR curves are separating at 12 months? I mean obviously they didnt at six or is that now what you are intending to communicate here.
I am just -- the key question for us is did those TLR curves separate in a significant way at one year or any other time frame.
Are you making a comment on whether or not those curves are separating or no? No I really wasnt intending to make a comment on it; I was just trying to put our numbers in perspective based on what Medtronic presented.
Okay.
So no comment here on capital market separation or not.
No.
Okay.
And then back on the submission I was wondering if you could maybe just walk us through a time line of things that have gone on since the one year follow up was completed because that completed in July of 2013 if I recollect correctly.
Just sort of whats gone on between that time and today and I understand you submitted but any further color on the statistical change and just walk us through the timeline events.
Because you know nine months is quite a long period of time and I am just want to make sure I have an understanding of why it's taken this long and whats going on and just a little more color on this statistical analysis that you commented on.
Okay.
So from the timeline perspective the last patient received their follow up visit well it was technically August before they would have completed their final 30 day window.
And so then we had had monitoring visits and all of that closed out and so it really wasnt until the early November time frame that you could say we had all of the data together and as we said we submitted the PMA module the clinical module at the end of November.
So that was the kind of time frame that the authors began working on a manuscript.
As I said they had completed that manuscript several months ago and then during FDAs review they came back and said well we really think you are overly conservative in the way you had pre-specified one of your analysis and we think it's more appropriate to do it in a different way.
So we immediately of course informed the authors and our understanding was that they were literally days away from pressing the send button for submission.
So they decided to hold off and again once that was complete then they changed the minor changes that were associated with those numbers and then submitted.
So in the meantime there has been a lot of activity obviously back and forth with FDA.
So it may seem like a long time for us.
It seems like it's been pretty short from November when we handed the data over an access to the data really because an outside statistical group did analysis for the authors.
By the time we handed that over to them it was late November.
Okay that's helpful.
Thank you.
I'll leave it at that.
We have a question from Dave Turkaly JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks I guess you reiterated the guidance for the year I was just curious as we look at the submission and everything you talk about returning some like $100 million in 2015 still a best guess at this point?  Well I think what we've said is that we felt that the market would be $100 million in the first year relative to the opportunity to the extent there are multiple competitors in the market at first year to the extent that the market doesn't increase by having multiple players in the market I would presume that a portion of that would be shared between the competitors.
That was our view of the market and our view was that first year we would be the only one on the market which is where the $100 million came from.
Thanks a lot.
And the next question is from Mathew Dodds from Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Hey good afternoon.
Just quickly on the cost side Chris 130 basis points in gross margin is that across the board or is there any division that's benefiting more in that increase.
It's really across the board Matt I mean we've done a lot of consolidating of our manufacturing footprint over time and so there is -- we have sort of eight or nine very large plans that are manufacturing across divisions in many cases.
So I would not look to any particular divisions being impacted more than others.
The quick one for John Weiland the stent grafts they are down 11% is that mostly price do you think it was in share or the volume slowed in that market? It's mostly price but we did see a little volume in reduction as well this quarter.
Up to this quarter was almost entirely priced but we saw a little bit of it both into this quarter.
Thanks John thanks Chris.
And we have a question from Matthew O'Brien with William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Good evening thanks for taking the question.
Just curious when I look through the entire portfolio the performance in the newly acquired areas is quite strong but then in the other segments within a lot of your businesses it seems fairly weak.
Is that just a function of somewhat distracted sales force at this point as they get up to curve on the newer products and then when do you think their focus may shift back to some of the more legacy type products? Matt this is John I wouldn't agree with the premise in fact if you look at some of our legacy products like PICCs where we had 11% growth in the quarter that was an extremely strong quarter for us ports were very strong.
I would say there probably was a little bit more pressure in the vascular business obviously than in the other businesses.
And neurology was a little weaker than what we had seen through a couple of running quarters last year but I don't agree with the premise that the legacy products are suffering.
The United States business as we mentioned we did not see a lot of organic growth in the United States business but I don't think that's anything to do with sales force distractions at all.
Okay can I just take in one more quick one with the new 3CG product I think uptick there has been pretty good.
We haven't gotten a lot of detail recently.
But I think historically you had said you expected that part to be kind of a home run for Bard.
I mean do you think this is the new feature set that you need to really accelerate uptick of that going forward or is this more of an incremental addition.
No I think as we've said we've been delighted with the uptick in our 3CG product and as I've said before I think we're only in the fifth inning in the United States in terms of the growth potential for that with really the whole ex-U.S.
opportunity still in front of us to take advantage of.
We think this is -- allows it to be even simplified further for clinicians reduces the amount of training potentially necessary and we think provides another opportunity within that whole line for us.
Fair enough thank you.
Sure.
And we have a question from Kristen Stewart from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
I just want to go back to the Lutonix question just on the outlook and make sure I understood it correctly.
So the $100 million that you guys have been saying that was your goal for 2015 was more of a view of the market and that you felt Medtronic was unable to get in during calendar year 2015 is that correct? That's right.
Okay.
And then I guess given and the June 12 date that is just goal or has the FDA communicated to you that that's good panel meeting that you should expect to have that? So at this time FDA has publically notified that there is a -- they are holding that date as a panel.
They have informed us that their expectation is that we would go to panel on that date.
Now that said it could change and has been known to change in the past and it's typically a month before or so sort of in the May 12 time frame that they solidify and say yes we're going to convene a panel.
And they'll announce at that point publically that it would be Bard that would be involved with that panel the Lutonix product.
They have informed us that that's the date right now and we've gotten some questions about it because some people have noticed that FDA updated their website to list that date for the cardiovascular group and we wanted to make sure that we were clear today that at least right now we've been notified by FDA that that is there expectation we'll go to panel on that date but it could change.
Okay and then I guess just thinking about -- I guess now the competitive landscape you did mention Medtronics data is looking pretty strong and I guess can you offer I guess some insights in terms of I guess A whether or not it's your expectations that Medtronics may be able to go to a panel at the same time as you and then assuming that they are in the market at least their communicated timeline at this stage is mid-2015.
What sort of market share I guess would you expect to have and how has that changed relative to seeing the data earlier this month? Let me answer a piece of that and then I'll let Tim or John to answer the other piece.
So Medtronic publically stated that they anticipated submitting their final modules by the end of May.
So I think it's physically impossible for them to submit in May and go to panel two weeks later.
FDA wouldn't have had the time to review that.
So I think as far as the panel goes we wouldn't expect them to be at the June 12 panel date as a presenter.
As far as market share and those things go I will defer to Tim or John.
Yeah I think that what's important here is that this is a new technology for a very important patient unmet need right now.
And I think what we've seen by at least preliminary results is both products seem to work.
So I view that as a way kind of a rising tide and I think it will make them hopefully make the market certainly aware more awareness and potentially increase the growth rate of the market faster.
So that's the way I would look at that.
Relative to share that's very difficult to project in the U.S.
All I can tell you is what we've seen in Europe and we've been making good progress relative to market share within Europe.
So that's the only data point we really have for that comparison at this point.
And where would you estimate your market share to be today in Europe or maybe in just the markets in which the product has been launched? I think the market right now is estimated to be in the $50 million to $70 million range $50 million to $60 million range there.
We're not the market leader there but we're making very good progress in even our quarter-over-quarter growth rates so Okay thanks very much.
I will get back in queue.
Thank you.
And we have a question from Matthew Taylor with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
I guess just related to the data seems that's really the kind of focus here.
Can you talk about your view of the Medtronic results and what points of the LEVANT 2 trials aside from I guess blinding you think are key to highlight in terms of the differences that could drive results going into your presentation? Well it's certainly difficult to talk a great length.
We certainly saw their results at Charring Cross.
It's really hard to compare directly the two studies because they are very different the blinding was very different pre-dilation was required in prior their study and not others.
The end points are a little bit different as far as the way they define safety the lesions were a little different.
We treated the full popliteal they treated SFA and proximal popliteal.
So we have P2 and P3 patients in our study so again there is just a lot of differences with some similarities of course as well.
Do you expect the PMA results to have a big impact in Europe in the near term have you seen anything since that data was published? It's -- there's only a few weeks have gone by since that and we have not seen anything really.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our next question comes from Rich Newitter from Leerink Partners.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much and thanks for taking the question.
Just on Lutonix on the last question I think may be just ask a different way and the read through to the U.S.
as you kind of had discussions with customers post the Medtronic data being shown can you tell us how you are positioning or talking to your customers to highlight the advantages of Lutonix to may be preempt any potential kind of market share shifts away in Europe and then may be that -- use that as a proxy for how you think you will position your product once you are in the U.S.
and talk about it relative to Medtronic if the data looks better for Medtronic? Yeah I will start -- this is Tim and I'll turn it over to John.
Unless maybe there is a predicate for how doctors will look at this thing day-to-day we've had doctors that have treated patients because again this isn't one treatment kind of modality and the patient doesn't come back.
This is a progressive disease and many times same patient is seen over and over the same doctor.
So we've had doctors that customers of ours that have treated patients differently started using Lutonix and the patient haven't come back at anyway near the same frequency that they came back prior to being treated with Lutonix product.
They like the product they like the way it performs.
There is a lot of physician preference relative to delivery the amount of drug what happens when you open the package et cetera et cetera.
So there is lot of personal preference there in the extent that clinically the patients don't come back certainly at the same rate they coming back prior to being treated with Lutonix and clinicians are very pleased with that.
So that's kid of the anecdotal feedback that we are getting.
So I think the other piece of this to keep in mind is that Medtronic had this technology in the European market for six or seven years now.
They have a number of other studies that have been published and presented.
Most of them were smaller randomized or registry studies.
I have to say when you put it in the perspective that this study will actually be any of the registry studies that they've put out so far as far as results go.
But again this isn't new news to European marketplace.
They've had this product for many many years and are certainly very familiar with the Medtronic technology.
And they've had the Lutonix product for less time just a year and half or so.
So I think it's something that should that's not a big surprise and when we had the limited interaction I've had with European physicians they are quite familiar with the products.
Cici anymore questions? Yes we have a question from David Roman from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi good evening.
Sorry about that.
I want just a quick question on emerging market because that was an area you highlighted for and that could drive an acceleration top line growth before we start to see an impact from some of the pipeline in the 2015 plus time frame.
May be you just give us a little bit more of the detail update on how your efforts progressing in those markets and what gives you the confidence that there can be a sufficient schedule at the total top line come in the back half of this year? Well you may recall David this is John Weiland you may recall that last year we added 203 people to the emerging market portfolio that are selling those products in those markets that we thought had a biggest potential.
It normally takes a sales rep a little while to get up to speed both in terms of proficiency on selling products and the clinical benefits of those as well as understanding within your territories where the largest potentials are.
We added those throughout the year last year heavily focused on the back half of 2013.
So we would think that they will be in a position near the latter part of this year to be able to contribute to our results from a revenue standpoint.
Okay thats helpful.
May be just quick one on capital allocation.
I understand that the prepared remarks that you talked about having completed the condiment you give 50% of the Gore after tax proceed back to shareholders but I think you had your $300 million left in the buyback.
But maybe you could just talk about your thoughts around capital allocation from here I mean last year you did youve done some pretty significant the past couple of years.
So we think about 2014 as sort of gestation period for some of those transactions and have a more stable capital allocation or do you think we would see another year of heavy M&amp;A activity balance in summer additional returns to shareholders? I think David It depends on whether or not we can find the right opportunities.
And we are certainly every day we are looking to find them we havent change the way or the amount of efforts focused on M&amp;A in 14 versus 13 because we did three transactions last year.
So its purely based on us finding the right opportunities that makes strategic and financial sense for us.
If we find them and we can make them happen well make them happen.
Putting that aside well continue to be active in returning cash to shareholders subject to the M&amp;A volume.
So the priority is strategic.
The second priority is share repurchases and the third priority is dividends and that hasnt changed and the quantums that go in each of those buckets are really purely based on the amount of strategic opportunities that we can execute on.
Okay thank you.
Sure.
And the next question comes from David Lewis from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks excuse me and just one quick on back on the clinical side on DCP may be for John DeFord.
And John you mentioned that the change here was the FDA wanted to take a more conservative path to the statistical analysis on our primary endpoint.
Any sense what drove their decision there and was there any effort by the agency to try to find a way of more accurately comparing your data set to Medtronics data set? Well so I think youve got that backward.
We actually our original analysis was more conservative than what FDA wanted ultimately.
So we ended up having a much more conservative route initially and then did change the analysis as FDA requested.
Now as far as Medtronic goes I really cant speculate I dont have any idea whether FDA has -- I mean to best of our knowledge based on what Medtronic said publically I dont believe FDA has had access to their results yet.
So we certainly havent had questions trying to compare our results to theirs.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Thank you and our last question will come from Anthony Petrone from Jefferies Group.
Please go ahead.
All right thanks.
A follow up on the LEVANT 2 may be to ask you in another way.
The changes the FDA requested that you make to LEVANT 2 does that make study more comparable to other drug-coated balloon studies or would you still clarify it as still being scientifically more bigger.
And just follow-up on the coronary launch in Europe? Yeah.
It was a tiny tiny change.
It doesnt change anyway that you would compare the results.
It was one time point in the analysis that we thought more conservatively you would not include FDA suggested we include it.
As far as the coronary fees goes as I said we anticipate launching the coronary products in Europe in this quarter.
Yeah and just a follow up there is it de novo lesions or instant restenosis and maybe give an update on how large you think those markets are and to what extent thats baked into 2014 guidance? Thanks.
Our indications in Europe are for coronary access so you would expect primary use in de novo lesions but some used in instant restenosis.
Yeah and certainly our expectations is that opportunity which are not significant at this point are reflected in our guidance for the year.
Thank you.
This does conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the call back over to the Bard management for closing or additional comments.
Great thanks Lucy.
Id like to take this opportunity to thank all of you for joining us for the call good afternoon and also to take the opportunity to thank Bard employees around the world for a very positive start to the year.
And we look forward to updating you on our progress at the end of this quarter.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Services.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the C.R.
Bard Inc.
Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Christopher S.
Holland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements.
The accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information in Bard's March 31 2014 Form 10-Q and the information under the caption Risk Factors in Bard's 2013 10-K including disclosure of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to non -- or to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance of the company and its individual product franchises.
Reconciliations of the non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings press release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of July 24 2014 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information.
Unless otherwise noted all comparisons are to the prior year period.
At this time I'll turn the conference over to Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I'd like to welcome you all to Bard's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call and thank all of you for taking the time to join us today.
I'd expect the presentation portion of the call to last about 20 minutes and we're trying to keep the total call to about an hour.
The discussion today will go as follows: I'll begin with an overview of the results for the second quarter; John Weiland our President and COO will review second quarter product line revenue; John DeFord our Senior VP Science Technology and Clinical Affairs will give you a brief update on our product pipeline; and then Chris Holland our Senior VP and CFO will go through the second quarter income statement and balance sheet as well as our expectations for the third quarter and the full year; and then finally we'll wrap it up with Q&amp;A.
Second quarter 2014 net sales totaled $827.1 million that's up 9% over Q2 of last year on an as-reported basis and up 8% on a constant-currency basis.
The currency impact for the quarter versus Q2 2013 was favorable by about 60 basis points.
The royalty payment we received from Gore in the quarter was approximately $37.6 million and the net impact from the acquisitions less the EP divestiture was a benefit of about 20 basis points to revenue growth in the second quarter.
All that means that our organic revenue growth improved sequentially over Q1 which was consistent with our expectations.
Net loss for the second quarter of 2014 was $119.4 million and diluted loss per share was $1.59 which included a net charge for product liability.
Excluding this and other items that affected the comparability of results between periods which Chris will cover later adjusted Q2 2014 net income and diluted earnings per share were $143 million and $2.06 up 22% and 30% respectively.
These adjusted results exceeded the guidance we provided for the quarter and the first half of the year is coming a little bit better than we projected.
Looking at revenue growth geographically compared to the same quarter last year second quarter net sales in the U.S.
increased 12%.
Excluding the royalty payment U.S.
product sales were up 4%.
On a constant currency basis Europe was down 1% Japan grew 6% and our other international businesses grew 5%.
These rates include the loss of revenue from the EP divestiture.
If you exclude the impact from the divestiture Europe grew 11% Japan grew 10% and our other international businesses grew 11% all in constant currency.
In Q2 emerging markets represented 8% of our total sales which reflects an improvement in mix of over 100 basis points sequentially compared to Q1.
So while we're just hitting the halfway mark of our incremental investment plan calendar we are seeing early returns in the contribution from emerging markets.
As we've told you a key objective of our investment plan is to accelerate the growth rate of the company.
In Q2 every business performed either at the top or above our stated annual guidance range for each category.
While it's good to see improved organic growth this quarter we're certainly not yet at a level that anyone here is happy with.
But we're pleased with some positive data points that we've seen so far this year.
We continue to be very focused on executing our strategic plan.
In fact 80% of our incremental R&amp;D investment dollars are targeted in product families that grew double digits or better for us this quarter.
The other 20% of that R&amp;D spend is either in new areas or in existing product lines that we believe have the potential for double-digit growth.
And of course our incremental SG&amp;A investment is focused on accelerating our revenue in emerging markets which are already growing double digits for us today.
We continue to believe that executing our investment plan will accelerate the sustainable growth rate of the overall portfolio and put us in a position to provide above-market revenue growth in the mid- to high-single digits with attractive returns for our shareholders.
So with that let me turn you over to John Weiland for a review of our product line revenue.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start let me point out that I'll be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior year period on a constant currency basis unless noted otherwise.
So let's begin with Vascular.
Total net sales were $233 million up 10% over last year on an as-reported basis and 8% on a constant-currency basis.
Excluding the royalty payment and the divestiture of EP total Vascular sales were up 2% in Q2 with the United States business down 4% and international up 10%.
Sales in our Surgical Graft category were down 2% in the second quarter within the range of recent experience.
Our Endovascular business grew 3% in the second quarter without the benefit of the Gore royalty which was the best quarter since the second quarter of 2012.
This improvement was primarily due to strong results of Lutonix sales in international geographies which drove our peripheral PTA line to increase to 12% globally with over 30% growth in Europe.
We're very pleased so far with the European response to Lutonix and we're seeing early acceleration in other geographies.
Sales in our vena cava filter line were up 2% in Q2 and our biopsy family of products was also up 2% this quarter.
Our Stent business declined 5% in Q2 which reflects a moderation of the decline we've been seeing here for the last couple of years.
We continue to see price pressure that hit to this product line.
Now let's go to Urology.
Total net sales were $207.1 million up 8% versus Q2 of last year on an as-reported and constant-currency basis.
The United States business was up 6% while internationally we grew 10%.
The sales of the Rochester acquisition contributed roughly 700 basis points of global growth for the category.
Our basic drainage business was up 7% globally in Q2 with about 400 basis points coming from the Rochester acquisition.
Our I.C.
Foley business was up 3% globally and in positive territory in the United States for the first time in 4 years.
Our Targeted Temperature Management products experienced a slight decline this quarter primarily due to softness in Japan and the rest of Asia.
We don't believe this quarter is representative of what we see as a long-term attractive growth opportunity.
Our continence business was up 46% in Q2 driven by the acquired products.
Excluding the impact from Rochester continence sales declined 5%.
Sales in neurological specialties were down 2% in Q2 as the largest product line in the category our brachytherapy business was down double digits.
And finally in this category standalone sales of our StatLock catheter stabilization line increased 3% in Q2.
So now let's go to Oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $224.7 million an increase of 5% on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis over Q2 last year.
Geographically net sales in the United States were up 4% and international sales were up 8%.
Our port business was up 1% versus Q2 last year.
Our PICC revenue was up 10% this quarter with continued strength in the United States Europe and emerging markets.
Not only is this our largest product line of global portfolio as we've said before we believe it represents our largest outside-of-the-United-States revenue growth opportunity and we're focused on developing the international markets and advancing lives and the delivery of health care across the globe.
Our Vascular Access ultrasound product line was down 6% this quarter.
We believe some customers have delayed orders due to the anticipated full launch of our new Vision II system.
And to close out this category our Dialysis Access product line was up 10% this quarter with strong performance in both the United States and emerging markets.
So let's conclude with our Surgical Specialties business.
Total net sales in this category were $139.3 million up 16% on both an as-reported and constant-currency basis.
United States sales were up 17% and international sales were up 14% this quarter.
About 1 000 basis points of the global growth came from sales of Arista acquired in Q4 of 2013.
We're seeing continued momentum from our BioSurgery business and we're pleased with the execution in this large and growing space.
Our soft tissue repair business grew 7% in Q2 which is the best result since the Q1 2011.
Our healthy double-digit growth in synthetic hernia continues and is now being aided by the sales of our new Phasix hybrid mesh which is a resorbable synthetic.
This accelerated strength in synthetics is offsetting continued softness in our natural tissue products which declined 18% this quarter compared to Q2 2013.
And our hernia fixation business which is included in the soft tissue repair subtotal declined 6% this quarter.
Closing out the surgical category in Q2 our performance irrigation business was down 8%.
So this concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to John DeFord for a quick pipeline update.
Thanks John and good afternoon everyone.
Since we held our annual Analyst Day just a few weeks ago I won't spend much time discussing projects and I'll just provide a few highlights.
First in our drug-coated balloon program we presented to FDA's Circulatory System Devices Panel on June 12 and received unanimous votes for safety efficacy and benefit risk for the Lutonix DCB.
The PMA is under interactive review and timing remains squarely in FDA's hands.
However we believe we're making good progress and feel we're on track for an early 2015 U.S.
launch.
Moving to the publication of the Levant 2 results.
The authors informed us this week that they received communication from a targeted journal which required revisions as is typical in the process.
The authors plan to respond in the coming weeks and we're pleased with the process and it's moving forward but we can't predict the timing or the outcome here as it's really outside of our control.
And though panel was an important milestone we're focused on continuing to expand sizes and indications worldwide.
We completed enrollment in our Levant 2 Japan study in June and we expect to submit next year for approval.
Enrollment continues in our IDE below-the-knee and in-stent restenosis studies and we just launched our coronary and AV access DCB products in Europe.
Also in Vascular we received PMA approval in late-June for the Fluency endovascular stent graft family indicated for the treatment of in-stent restenosis in the AV access circuit.
And we launched the product in early July which was earlier than we've anticipated.
I don't have any other material updates from what we discussed last month so thanks very much for attention this has probably set a new record for me today with the shortest presentation in my career.
So without further delay I'll hand the discussion over to Chris.
Thank you John.
Let's start with the items that affect the comparability of our results between periods.
Based on recent developments in Q2 we took a net charge for product liability of approximately $263 million primarily driven by women's health product litigation.
A small portion of this charge is related to an unusual circumstance in the MDL where the court has ordered us to work up 700 cases simultaneously.
We expect the expense related to that order to increase in the coming quarters which we will continue to reflect as an item affecting comparability.
We also had acquisition-related items of $22.5 million in the quarter.
The P&amp;L impact to these items is detailed in the notes to the financial statements and the reconciliation accompanying our Q2 earnings press release.
Now let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $506.4 million or 61.2% of sales for Q2.
On an adjusted basis GP was 61.3% of sales up 20 basis points from the prior year quarter.
The Gore royalty represented 180 basis points of improvement while new amortization of intangibles relating to transactions closed in the last 12 months cost us about 70 basis points year-over-year for the quarter.
Price was unfavorable at 90 basis points on the revenue line and about 40 basis points in GP consistent with our expectations for the year.
And FX was about a 40-basis-point headwind to gross margin for the quarter.
We expect Q3 gross margins to improve sequentially by about 100 basis points and at this point we remain comfortable with our full year guidance for GPs.
SG&amp;A expenses were $245.2 million for the quarter or 29.6% of sales.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A as a percentage of net sales was also 29.6% 10 basis points lower than Q2 of '13.
We expect to see improved leverage in the back half of the year here.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $85.4 million for the second quarter or 10.3% of sales on a reported basis.
On an adjusted basis R&amp;D expense as a percentage of sales for the second quarter was 7.8% which is down 80 basis points as a percent of sales from the prior year and just slightly below our projection for the quarter.
We remain on offense here and continue to fund the projects that we believe provide long-term shareholder value.
With the over-achievement on the sales line we now expect R&amp;D as a percentage of sales to be around 8% for the full year.
Interest expense was $11.3 million for the second quarter and other income and expense was $257.3 million of expense as reported and $5.5 million of income on an adjusted basis primarily driven by foreign exchange and interest income.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 25.7% down 110 basis points from the prior year.
U.S.
income including the royalty payment represented a higher mix than originally anticipated in the first half of 2014.
So we will likely end up with a higher effective rate than we had projected at the beginning of the year but our strategies to reduce the overall rate are tracking well.
I'll also remind you that our full year EPS guidance does include about $4 million of benefit from the anticipated renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit which we continue to expect in Q4 but with the current political picture that timing could slip into early next year.
Diluted shares on an adjusted basis for the period were $76.6 million and we repurchased approximately 1.9 million shares in the second quarter.
The net result is adjusted EPS of $2.06 above the range we provided for the quarter.
The balance sheet as of June 30 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of $1 billion consistent with the balance at March 31.
For the quarter accounts receivables days were down 1.6 days and inventory days were up 0.8 days.
Capital expenditures totaled $32.9 million for the quarter and on the liabilities side total debt was $1.6 billion as of June 30 compared to $1.4 billion at March 31.
Debt-to-total-capital at the end of the second quarter was about 49% and total shareholder investment was $1.7 billion as of June 30.
Now moving to financial guidance.
For Q3 we are expecting constant currency sales growth between 7% and 9%.
We do expect continued improvement in our organic sales growth rate through the rest of the year.
Though of course there is potential variability in the contribution from the Gore royalty relative to our expectations.
With regard to the full year we are now expecting constant currency sales growth to be between 8% and 9%.
From an EPS standpoint excluding items affecting comparability we expect the third quarter in the range of $2.07 to $2.11 per share.
And for the full year we're increasing our adjusted EPS guidance by $0.05 to $8.25 to $8.35 per share.
So in summary the first half of the year has gone well from both a sales and profitability perspective.
As we now move to the second half we remain focused on executing our investment plan and pursuing strategic opportunities with the objective of driving attractive and sustainable revenue growth profitability and shareholder returns over the long term.
With that I'll turn you back to Tim.
Thanks Chris.
That does conclude the formal part of the presentation.
I'll now turn the call back to the moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A session.
Due to the number of investors on the call I'd ask that you please limit yourself to one question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So if we're going to limit it to one question I just wanted to get a little bit more color on the product liability side.
And just -- if you guys could just give a little more detail on the reason for the increase in the reserve and just what's the total reserve now? And I know on the mesh side there's been a couple of other settlements that have averaged around $40 000 to $45 000 per case.
So if could you just give us any color on how you're coming up with that number and just kind of where we go from here? I know historically you've got an unlimited ability to talk about this but any other detail you could provide would be helpful.
Sure Bob.
As you well know this is a dynamic situation and a lot has happened I think in the last quarter and you referenced a number of the key things that have happened which we obviously take all of those things into consideration to the extent we have facts that we can then base judgments and assumptions on.
So we as we do every quarter evaluate what we've seen from others in terms of settlements any settlement activity that we are in the middle of or have discussions ongoing.
We evaluate the current case count and we estimate what we think future claims will be.
And that's what we'll continue to do going forward and I think as we've always said based on the information we have at this point in time as we close the quarter we think we've reflected an appropriate reserve in our financial statements and that's what the Q2 action reflects.
Research Division</strong> And can you just give a sense of the total number of cases now? Yes.
I think our Q will be out in the next day or so Bob and it will be obviously updated and increased disclosure there.
So I prefer not to refer to pieces of it but have you all have the benefit of the full updated disclosure.
Next question comes from the line of Larry Keusch Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess Tim you referenced in your prepared comments the mid- to high-single-digit sales growth objectives and you feel like you're tracking towards that.
Maybe you could help us understand what timeline you're kind of thinking about for that.
And how much does DCB have to play into that to be able to hit the numbers? Yes.
Well you know that the plan we laid out for you what 1.5 year ago now basically gave you the timeline through 2015 where we expect it to be.
And I guess to summarize all the points we're certainly consistent with that from an execution point of view.
DCBs we're comfortable with the ranges that we gave in that guidance that in any scenario we see with the DCBs where we'll be able to be within that guidance range.
So I think that's about as specific as I want to be at this point.
But we're comfortable with the guidance we laid out longer term a while back.
We're on our way to hit that.
Next question comes from the line of Brooks West with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Tim I wanted to get you're refined thoughts on the home health or alternative site opportunity for Bard now that you've got a little more experience with Rochester Medical.
I wonder if you could just update us on your thoughts on the general opportunity current products future products any color you could share? Well we're bullish on the opportunity generally speaking.
I'm not going to layout our strategy in the call for you but as you know I think within the U.S.
market pretty much any hospital CEO you talk to they're trying to deliver more care outside of the hospital.
So I would maybe expand it to say just not only home care but care outside the hospital it could take place in several kinds of setting.
Frankly we think that strategy is the broadest strategy than just U.S.
In many parts of the world there is more care delivered in the home or nonhospital setting than in the U.S.
in the acute setting.
So we think that the strategy is a global one not just a U.S.
one.
We're pleased with the entry point that we have with the Rochester business.
We think a lot of our other technologies although maybe not even intended for that type of application when developed certainly are applicable with very minor modifications maybe even more of an increased service component to it to fit the nonhospital setting.
So we're excited about the opportunity.
I'd say we're still trying to scope it out though to figure out exactly where we want to plug into it.
Next question comes from the line of Matthew Dodds with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Tim or John can you just tell us on Medivance what happened in Japan and Asia? And did the other markets still grow over 10%? It's Chris.
There is a capital component to that business I think as you well know.
And as you also I think appreciate there can be lumpiness with that.
And so the timing of certain orders can impact growth rates quarter-to-quarter and we even see that from time to time in the U.S.
as well.
So we think Q2 was an aberration with some of the softness we saw in Asia and some of the timing around certain orders.
And we do certainly though recognize we're continuing to develop a market and we're sort of the leader in trying to do that.
And that will continue to evolve over time as the appreciation of the technology and its benefits gets to be known more broadly by clinicians.
We need to really pave that road.
And so we're continuing to find ways to help KOLs speak on behalf of the technology and again over time it will need to get more broad applications and indications as well.
So again we're very excited about the longer-term opportunity.
And again we think the blip we've seen in Q2 is an aberration.
Research Division</strong> Just quick.
So the U.S.
and Europe the growth rates were similar to recent trends? Is that fair? Yes.
They're continuing to -- so -- and again the disposable piece of the business grew nicely.
And again the capital piece was somewhat lower in the quarter.
But we're continuing to see growth in the key geographies.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Turkaly with JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> You may have said it but I don't know if I caught it how much buyback you have left? And I know you mentioned cash and restricted cash of a $1 billion.
We haven't seen any big deals for almost a year I guess.
I guess what your propensity or capacity to look to bring other companies in here? Certainly.
We have $528 million left under the current authorization as of June 30.
We do have the $1 billion which is largely offshore.
And we think we've got a lot of capacity to continue to fund the right strategic investments and we're certainly actively evaluating lots of opportunities.
The fact that we haven't done anything this year doesn't mean that we don't have an interest and we don't have the capacity to do additional transactions.
Again they need to make sense strategically and financially.
And when we do find ones that meet these filters that we have we believe between the balance sheet and access to capital we can certainly finance what we need to get done.
Next question comes from the line of Matthew O'Brien William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just one real quick clarification if I might.
Chris the royalty rate $37.5 million in the quarter again above what we were expecting.
Should we use that rate going forward? Yes.
We're not.
So I would encourage you not too either.
And that wasn't the intention of my comment was to say that we certainly can't predict with any certainty at all what that number will be which is certainly for example why we guide 7% to 9% in Q3 as an example.
So we're not going to use a quarter to establish a new run rate that were going to factor into our internal plans so I'd probably encourage you not to do it either.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just for my fundamental question.
If my math is right it looks like your emerging market performance was up about 20% sequentially.
Tell me if I'm wrong there but it was still very strong.
And I know you've added a couple hundred folks in that business recently.
Can you just give us a sense for how we should be modeling that over the next several quarters? Is that 20%-ish rate sequentially sustainable? Or should it decline materially? And then is that really focused in one geography or product line category that's driving a lot of that growth or is it more broad-based? It was a strong quarter for us I mean there was no question about it.
In the emerging markets you saw the uptick.
We've not been giving out that percentage data for competitive reasons.
But I think the indicator of the -- how our mix improves and the contribution of emerging markets is evident.
We added last year 203 physicians in emerging markets heavily focused on the back half of the year.
And we did that across a number of geographies: China Latin America et cetera.
We have a more modest number of additions that we're making in 2014.
However I think the important fact is usually it takes individuals 6 9 12 months to really get up to speed and be productive in their territories.
And we think that will happen in the back half of this year.
So our expectation is we'll be getting continued to contributions from the 200-plus people that we added last year.
Next question comes from the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could spend a minute just on spending levels.
And I know on the call you walked through some dynamics in the P&amp;L that you'd start to expect to see SG&amp;A leverage increase toward the back half of the year.
Maybe you could also just talk about the cash flow side of the equation.
I think if my math is right you spent almost year-to-date on CapEx what you spent all of last year.
How should we just think about using capital for internal investments on a go-forward basis? Sure.
We had guided $100 million to $120 million of CapEx this year back in January which is absolutely a clear step up from where we've been and we've talked about that.
That is not a new run rate there's a couple of years worth of incremental investment around a number of key systems initiatives as well as a lot of integration work and capacity expansion around some of the acquisitions.
So normally we'd be in the $60 million to $70 million range.
In this year through the first half I think we've spent $56 million which is very consistent with the $100 million to $120 million full year guidance.
So the application of free cash flow and the priorities continue to be very much consistent.
Obviously we'll do what we need to do from an infrastructure standpoint and hence the CapEx spend.
We then again are focused on driving strategic addition to the portfolio through M&amp;A.
And then beyond that to the extent we can't find the right opportunities we'll return cash flow to shareholders between a combination of buybacks and dividends with our desire to really maintain flexibility to have buybacks be the primary avenue again given the flexibility it provides us.
So again the business is continuing to generate very strong free cash flow and we're deploying it consistently with the strategic priorities I think we've always had.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And does that -- how long at this elevated level then does $60 million to $70 million become the new normalized run rate after this elevated level or are you permanently higher? No it will -- this is a couple-of-year period of investment.
I'm not going to predict 3 or 4 years out our level of CapEx but I would certainly expect that to return back towards the more normal historical level.
Next question comes from the line of David Lewis Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Chris I just -- you made some positive comments for the back half of the year.
I wanted to square as it relates to organic growth.
I think 2 comments one from Tim and one from yourself.
The 7% to 9% constant currency growth over for the third quarter how does that compare with like Tim's comment about organic growth getting better into the back half of the year? Because I'm assuming basically you'll be more direct.
You basically have to beat that 9% number in our mind to get back to kind of 3% organic.
So is it safe to assume you're comfortable at the higher end of the constant currency range for the third quarter? Sure David.
Again we're providing a range we think is appropriate.
Again given the fact that I just mentioned there's parts of the revenue line we can't control and have very little visibility to with respect to the royalty.
So I think certainly the middle of the range we're very comfortable with.
And that would -- the middle to the high end of the range over the back half of the year will have us comfortably within the 8% to 9%.
We're now telling you that we expect to grow on a constant-currency basis for the full year.
So again we're trying not to make predictions without getting us some flexibility around the fact that there's parts of the business we don't have control over.
And your next question comes from the line of Mike Matson with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could maybe give us some thoughts on the Medtronics acquisition of Covidien and how that's going to affect you competitively particularly in your Vascular business? Do you see that as a more significant threat as a combined entity? Well they're both in the business now so we're essentially competing with them both.
And whatever the consequences are of them being combined it's hard to predict.
I've not heard or read of any plans that they've articulated relative to that business and that level of detail so it's kind of difficult to comment after knowing that.
But they're both in the market today and we compete with both of them today and it will be one business card that we compete against versus 2 I guess.
Next question comes from the line of Anthony Petrone with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just one for Chris a quick housekeeping question.
The $5.5 million and other income was that just the FX hedge gain? And then just one quick follow-up on Lutonix.
Sure.
That was part of it Dave.
There's also some interest income and actually income associated with the Boston Scientific TSA.
So it's just a handful of factors with FX just being the largest of it.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on Lutonix maybe you can give us an update now with the panel is done maybe on market development efforts for the product in the U.S.
and specifically if we go back to the study the difference between primary patency or TLR are physicians weighing those any differently? Are they more influenced by primary patency or are they stuck on TLR? John DeFord here.
We've had quite a bit of time in Europe with this technology.
And I think the sales obviously were very active in some of the market development at least market planning activities.
The product is not approved in the U.S.
so there's a limited amount of work that we can do in the U.S except internal preparation.
That said we think that the results were strong and demonstrated improvement in primary patency and we think that TLR has been shown to be highly subjective in this class of patients in claudicants.
And I think our study demonstrated that relatively clearly.
So that's obviously a part of our story.
And at least from the clinicians we've had interaction with so far seems to resonate pretty clearly.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Let me try and get 2 in here.
And the first is Chris just to clarify your comment on repurchasing.
I know that it was the new authorization that was put in place in June which you've already spent more than $500 million year-to-date on buyback.
What's your expectation for the balance of the year? Are you done for 2014 or is that to be determined? Yes.
Mike it will depend on how the back part of the year plays out.
It will depend on what acquisitions we see that we think makes sense.
And then we'll deploy additional free cash flow to the extent we have likely to buybacks.
But it's very much depends and we're not going to commit any number one way or the other right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Let me ask then the strategic question.
And Tim it was a question on your thoughts on Medtronic Covidien competitively Vascular.
But my question is more thinking about the opportunities there to create value for shareholders of Bard.
There's obviously a lot going on in health care over the last several months with companies looking at larger strategic transactions to try and create value.
Obviously [indiscernible] version.
It's all under the umbrella of how do we create value for our shareholders and it's a result of a number of the large announced transactions.
Could you just talk about how -- what's going on around June health care landscape with what some other companies are doing? Your thoughts on them and on whether some of those ideas some of those strategies may apply at Bard? I don't know if this snapshot in time that we are in is very different from anything historically.
I mean obviously all of us are obligated to increase shareholder value and do what's in the best interest of shareholders.
I think as companies merge or combined what have you there are some decisions that need to be made by clearly the board recommending shareholders where they see the future strategic plan of a given company versus what someone's acquisition offer would be and that's going to be weighed and balanced over a lot other things.
So I think that any time that you have a slowdown in growth which we've seen in the medical device field for some period of time and where you have less differentiated products as there has historically existed in certain sectors those are the sectors where you tend to see more consolidation take place.
So beyond that I don't really have any other specific comment.
Research Division</strong> Let me just ask because I think most people on the call do view this as being a different time.
And part of that is the tool set that CEOs and boards are using to create value is different.
There obviously has been the inversion fee but more broadly they're taking opportunity of the historical low cost to borrow looking for new ways to try and consider larger transaction something that Bard historically has shied away from.
My question is has your thought process a larger transaction or something that might be more transformative change.
Is that something you might be open to in the past that you've been reluctant to look at that type of a deal? Well we haven't been reluctant frankly.
We're -- every year when we go through our strategic review with our board we tend to layout for them as broad a scenario as we possibly can.
Both of the external landscape and where we -- obviously our internal plans and then where we see ourselves fitting in those.
Historically I've always said we wouldn't be afraid or shy away from doing a big deal.
It would just have to be so strategically compelling to us that it would make sense to us and then thus to shareholders.
So I -- we're not gated at all by what's going on in the external environment we'll stick to our strategic plan.
And we're obviously keeping our eyes wide open at what goes on within the external environment.
And frankly inversions are not new.
That technique if you will has been around for a long long time.
And we've had our eyes wide open to that as well.
So I wouldn't say that anything that's happening in the external environment today has dictated a change of course in our strategic plan at all.
And our next question comes from the line of Richard Newitter with Leerink Partners.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask one on Lutonix I think you gave a little bit of color on what had transpired with the journal publications process.
If you just -- I think I might have missed that.
If you could just repeat kind of where that stood in the process? And then also if you could just describe to the extent that that gets delayed further.
How does that impact your ability to go and market this device? Or how does that change the conversation potentially with physicians given that the kind of the rigor of the trial was so important to the kind of to the product's differentiation? Sure.
Let me go back and reiterate where we are in the process.
We did learn this week that the authors have received some feedback from the targeted journal that they've gone to.
The targeted journals asked for revisions again it's pretty common process and so they're working on getting those revisions in.
Frankly we don't feel like we got a lot of leverage at this point.
Certainly we personally as Bard don't this is being driven by the investigators and authors.
And there's -- with the data effectively out there through the panel meeting I'm not sure that any particular journal would feel pushed to try to time this with an upcoming meeting or something like that.
So we think that this is happening in due course.
We're actually pleased with the process and feel like we've -- it's headed where we think it's ought to go.
But timing is not within our control.
I think as far as commercialization goes we would think that our plans of commercialization as we reiterated today we think we're on track for an early-2015 launch.
With that timing I think we believe that publications should be reasonable within that kind of a time period.
So as far as commercialization goes we feel like that should help.
That said I think there's been a lot of discussion in the clinician community around the study designs.
And I think people are really getting their head around how we conducted the study and some of the unique aspects of it.
So we're beginning to get I think a good understanding that clinicians have grasp the way that the study was done.
And maybe that helps explain to them why TLR for example wasn't where you'd see in some other studies.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And maybe Tim just one for you.
Just taking kind of a step back if you could just provide your view of the kind of utilization and pricing landscape.
Any major or significant trend changes from last quarter to this quarter? No I wouldn't say any significant changes.
The major timing of contracts and specifically in U.S.
kind of varies throughout the course of the year.
So it's very difficult to gauge from quarter-to-quarter what's going to happen with either one of those things.
And our next question comes from the line of Matthew Taylor with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So not to take away I think from a good quarter but I just was curious given the revenue I thought you might have done a little bit better on the margin side.
You did point to a lot of benefits here in the back half on gross margins and SG&amp;A.
So I guess I was wondering a could you walk us through what's changing there to the positive? And then going back to your strategic guidance you talked about getting back to 2012 levels by 2015.
And I was wondering if that's still the case or if it could take a little bit longer? Sure Matt.
Again we're pleased with the quarter.
Again this as I think we said a number of times what we're trying to do is not about this quarter or 2014 or 2015.
We're not trying to drop through everything we can to maximize a given quarter.
I guess with what we delivered on the top and bottom line there's always -- there's some timing around our cost improvement initiatives.
FX was a bit more of a headwind for us in the quarter.
That all abate a bit in the back half.
So we feel good about where we are.
We're certainly where we thought we'd be relative to our plans and we feel good as we continue to grow the top line and see some benefits from some of the ongoing initiatives on the cost side that will affect gross margin.
We feel good about getting leverage in the back half of the year as well.
I think in terms of the longer-term objective we did a couple of times now I think note that the original objective of 2015 operating margins back to 2012 levels were before the acquisition and divestiture activity that we undertook last year which as we've talked about is diluted during this period of time.
So we're working hard to drive the margin higher.
We will continue to show we think very good trajectory and improvements in margins next year.
But we're not going to say we're going to get all the way back to the 2012 level by 2015.
But we will be making very good progress towards that objective.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up on that if I could.
So just my math I'm surprised with that leverage trajectory at the back half.
You did raise it a little bit more.
Is there something else I'm missing? Again Matt we're not going to get ahead of ourselves here.
We're not looking to maximize any individual quarter or maximize 2014.
We're trying to get the engine in a position where we're in very good position over the longer term.
And so we're doing everything we think we should be doing day-to-day week-to-week month-to-month quarter-to-quarter trying to deliver results to the shareholders that we think are attractive while we try to manage the business the right way for the longer term.
So I'd probably characterize it that way.
And the next question comes from the line of Josh Jennings with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just first wanted to just check in with you your Stent business.
And with the increased traction of drug-coated balloons in Europe have you seen any impact to the stent market or to your international Stent business specifically? And then assuming drug-coated balloons are including Lutonix are launched in the United States how should we be thinking about the LifeStent trajectory? Well let me talk about the Stent business first.
Individually we had pretty solid quarter in Vascular.
One of the aspects of that was the Stent business.
Now we have had some pressure in the stent business over the last number of quarters and in fact you may remember it decreased by 11% in Q1.
Q2 we were down 5%.
So we saw that pressure abate somewhat.
We had a key launch FLUENCY PLUS which will be important for us which we think will be an offensive weapon in the stent category as we move through the remainder of the year.
And the way we are focused on Lutonix we think a rising tide raises all ships.
I mean we will be at a very important -- even a more important partner with vascular surgeons cardiologists interventional radiologists with this offering.
And as a result we think we'll have the ability to really have a more important position in all those important laboratories.
So we're not planning on one side of our business declining to support another side of our business we're trying to make sure we position ourselves that we're full-line supplier of all these products.
The only other thing I would add and I don't think there's anything necessary to take away from this the decline of the Stent business in Europe was less than it was in other parts of the world and of the average.
So it wasn't more of a decline there which is where the bulk of Lutonix is being sold currently.
LLC Research Division</strong> Chris are you -- you're talking about the organic growth rate in Q2 and building from there in the back half of the year.
Just in terms of what your internal math is what was your organic growth rate in Q2? It's just a smidge over 3% Josh.
And our next question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go over just the guidance.
And I guess just a follow-up on the last question.
So I think Tim you've mentioned you saw an improvement sequentially within the organic growth rate.
And I think I have the first quarter at 2.6% and this one would be like 3.1% does that sound about right? I think 50 basis point improvement? That's right Kristen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the net acquisition divestiture contribution this quarter was a little less than last at 20 basis points last quarter it was 40.
Was that just more divestitures or how are the acquisitions performing relative to plan? Yes.
It is related to the divestiture.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the increase in sales guidance.
How much of that is Gore versus the organic? I know Gore for the past 2 quarters is higher it looks like coming in closer to the 140.
So how much of that I guess raising a full year sales as just specific to the higher Gore so far in the first half? Yes.
It's a -- we're not assuming again that kind of run rate in the back half of the year.
So we're -- it's obviously contributed to the front half to the extent you know right the 37.6%.
So it's really again -- we would have gotten to 8% on our own.
And obviously with the contribution we've seen in the first half from Gore we're comfortable in guiding 8% to 9% for the full year.
Research Division</strong> And what does that imply from the total company organic perspective that range with the acquisition and divestiture activity as well as Gore? Yes.
Again it's continued sequential improvement in the organic growth rate.
I'm not going to give you an exact number but it's sequential improvement in Q3 and in Q4.
Research Division</strong> And I'll sneak one more in.
Just on the -- a topic I guess of taxes and cash outside the U.S.
With the settlement and I can appreciate there's no probably ability to predict timing but the settlement on pelvic floor would that be something that you would have to use or U.S.
cash or could you use o-U.S.
cash? And just how do you think about balancing where your cash is generated relative to that payment as well as acquisitions down the road? I'm actually glad you brought that up Kristen because we've -- I've highlighted that point about this which is I think very important is that any of that obligation around women's health to the extent turns into a cash liability can be funded with o-U.S.
cash because those were manufactured outside the U.S.
those products.
So -- and that's why we've always consistently said there's nothing about this exposure that we see that in any way implicates our ability to execute our strategic plan.
And so to the extent we end up having to fund settlements et cetera it will be all with o-U.S.
cash and it would be obviously over a period of time.
So again it doesn't implicate our U.S.
cash flow and it doesn't implicate our ability to pursue strategic opportunities as we find them.
And we have no additional questions.
This does conclude our Q&amp;A session.
I would like to turn the call back over to Bard's management for closing or additional comments.
Thank you.
I'd like to close simply by thanking Bard employees around the world for their commitment to excellence and a strong quarter and I'd like to thank all of you for taking the time to join us today.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
I want to thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the C.R.
Bard Inc.s Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Christopher S.
Holland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information in Bard's June 30 2014 Form 10-Q and the information under the caption Risk Factors in Bard's 2013 10-K including disclosure of the fact I am sorry the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance of the company and its individual product franchises.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings press release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of October 22 2014 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information.
Unless otherwise noted all comparisons are to the prior year period.
At this time I will turn the call over to Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I'd like to welcome you to Bard's third quarter 2014 earnings call and also thank all of you for taking the time to join us today.
I'd expect the presentation portion of the call to last about 25 minutes and the total call to last about an hour.
The agenda today will go as follows I'll begin with an overview of the results for the third quarter of 2014 John Weiland our President and COO will review the third quarter product line revenue John DeFord our Senior VP of Science Technology and Clinical Affairs will give you an update on our product development pipeline and then Chris Holland our Senior VP and CFO will go through the third quarter income statement and balance sheet as well as our expectations for the fourth quarter and then finally we'll close with Q&amp;A.
Third quarter 2014 net sales totaled $830 million that's up 9% over Q3 of last year on both an as-reported and a constant currency basis.
Currency impact for the quarter versus the same quarter last year was favorable by about 50 basis points.
The Gore royalty payment of $38 million contributed 500 basis points of growth to the quarter and then the net impact of acquisitions less the EP divestiture contributed about 30 basis points of revenue growth for the quarter which means that our organic growth for Q3 2014 was approximately 3.7%.
Looking at net income for the third quarter was $131.3 million and diluted earnings per share were $1.69.
Excluding items that affected the comparability of results between periods which Chris will cover in more detail later.
Third quarter 2014 net income was $149.2 million and diluted earnings per share which exclude amortization of intangibles were $2.15 thats up 22% and 28% respectively.
Looking at revenue growth geographically compared to the same quarter of 2013 third quarter net sales in the U.S.
was up 13%.
Internationally we grew 1% on a constant currency basis with Europe growing 1% Japan declining 3% and other international businesses growing 4% for the quarter.
Excluding the impact of the Gore royalty and the divested EP sales constant currency net sales in Q3 grew 6% in the U.S.
and 9% internationally with Europe growing 11% Japan growing 1% and our other international businesses growing 11%.
Emerging markets represented about 8.5% -- 8.5% of total sales this quarter which accelerated sequentially as we have projected.
Six quarters ago in Q1 of 2013 when we announced our strategic investment plan our organic growth rate was about flat.
As you know our plan included additional spending of approximately $70 million a year in both 2013 and this year 2014 in targeted emerging markets and R&amp;D projects with expected returns to begin in the back half of 2014.
We are obviously now in the back half of 2014 and I would tell you we are pleased with the execution of the strategic plan so far but of course we have a lot of work still in front of us to accomplish our objectives.
A key factor of the plan is to realign the portfolio toward faster revenue growth and you see that whats happening.
We are seeing the initial returns from our investment plan and we expect accelerated organic revenue growth as we continue to execute.
So with that now let me turn you over to John Weiland for review of our product line revenue.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start let me point out that I will be giving all percentage growth data in the comparison to the prior period on a constant currency basis unless noted otherwise.
So let's begin with Vascular.
Growth in this category was 9% for the quarter or 10% on an as-reported basis with total sales of $231.5 million.
Excluding the Gore royalty and the divested EP sales total Vascular sales grew 2% globally with the United States business flat and the international business growing 5% in the quarter.
Sales in our Surgical Graft category were down 2% in Q3 consistent with recent experience.
Excluding the Gore royalty our Endovascular business increased 3% in third quarter within Endovascular our biopsy products grew 2% this quarter compared to Q3 of last year.
Sales in our peripheral PTA line increased 9% with continued strength of Lutonix Drug Coated Balloon sales in Europe as a key driver of the global growth in this category.
We were very pleased with the early FDA approval on October 10th although Lutonix DCB in the United States we use in femoropopliteal arteries.
This first to market device provides clinicians and their parents -- and their patients with an important new treatment option and we have seen very good early interest so far.
The decline in our stent business moderated this quarter compared to recent quarters declining 3% in Q3.
We continue to expect significant pricing pressure in this product line.
And finally net sales in our vena cava filter line declined 1% in the third quarter.
Let's go to Urology.
Total net sales were $209.6 million up 8% versus Q3 of last year on both the constant currency and in as-reported basis with the products from the Rochester acquisition in Q4 of last year representing nearly all of the growth in the category.
United States business grew 5% while internationally we grew 14%.
Our Targeted Temperature Management products grew 7% this quarter including mid single-digit growth in the United States and strong double-digit growth internationally.
Our basic drainage business was up 6% globally in the third quarter with about 400 basis points related to the Rochester acquisition.
Excluding the product -- the acquired products the United States basic drainage business grew 2% this quarter which is consistent with recent quarters.
So we havent seen any notable increase in U.S.
volumes from daily Folye usage and we are not aware of any meaningful shifts in shares.
Our I.C.
Foley business was flat globally and down 2% in the United States.
Our continence business increased 36% in Q3 driven by the acquired products from Rochester.
Excluding those sales our legacy continence products declined 12% consistent with recent trends.
Sales in neurological specialties grew 6% in Q3 driven by the acquired products included in that subtotal our brachytherapy business was down by 1%.
And finally in this category standalone sales of our StatLock catheter stabilization product line declined 2% in Q3.
Now lets go on Oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $229.7 million an increase of 6% on a constant-currency basis and 7% on an as reported basis over Q3 last year.
Geographically net sales in the United States were up 6% and international sales were up 8%.
Our port business increased 1% again this quarter.
Our PICC revenue was up 10% in Q3 included strong results in the United States Europe and emerging markets again this quarter.
We were very pleased with the clinical adoption of our advanced technology which helps patients and can save time and cost for the hospital.
Our vascular access ultrasound product line was up 16% this quarter related to the launch of our new Site-Rite Vision II system.
And our Dialysis Access product line was up 5% over Q3 of last year.
So lets conclude now with our surgical specialties business.
Total net sales in this category were $135.6 million up 15% on both the constant-currency and as-reported basis.
United States sales were up 16% and international sales grew 11% this quarter.
The Medafor acquisition which anniversaried on October 1st contributed approximately 12 percentage points of global growth to this category in Q3 and caused our portfolio of BioSurgery products to more than double compared to the third quarter of 2013.
Our soft tissue repair business grew 6% in the third quarter.
Within soft tissue our synthetic ventral repair products grew in the healthy double-digits again this quarter.
While our natural tissue products declined 22% as we continue to see a market shift the way from biologics.
With these changing dynamics we believe were well positioned with the most comprehensive product offering within hernia repair including our Phasix resorbable synthetic mesh.
Our hernia fixation business declined 5% this quarter consistent with recent experiences.
And closing out the surgical category our performance irrigation business was down 11% in Q3.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to John DeFord.
Thanks and good afternoon everyone.
As John already stated our big news is the recent approval and launch of the Lutonix DCB for SFA and popliteal disease.
Beyond that product however we have a robust pipeline and some other exciting launches to tell you about today.
The first U.S.
launch of our drug-coated balloon technology is an important milestone but not a destination.
Were diligently working to expand sizes and indications worldwide.
Excuse me we completed enrollment in our LEVANT 2 Japan study in June.
And we expect to submit next year for approval.
Enrollment continues in our IDE below the knee and in-stent restenosis studies and were working toward the initiation of an AV access IDE study with enrollment anticipated to start midyear 2015.
To complement our Lutonix launch we received clearance and are rolling out our new Ultraverse 035 family of PTA balloons with our new GEOALIGN technology.
GEOALIGN is a new marking system on the catheter thats designed to simplify placement and track catheter movement to reduce procedure time and radiation exposure.
Also in vascular we received CE Mark approval for the new LifeStream Balloon Expandable Stent Graft and launched in Europe earlier this month.
We also began enrollment a few days ago in the LifeStream IDE where were studying the use of the device in the treatment of iliac artery disease.
Finally in vascular we are awaiting FDA clearance to begin the launch of the first in the series of new True Flow PTA catheters for use in valvuloplasty procedures.
True Flow is designed to treat cardiac valve disease without the need for rapid pacing required to reduce cardiac output during balloon inflation with other valvuloplasty catheters.
True Flow is designed to allow blood flow to past to a large channel in the center of the balloon promoting prolonged inflation to potentially improve efficacy and reduce complications associated with rapid pacing.
Next moving to our urology business.
We launched DIGNISHIELD with medication delivery and our new solo hybrid guidewires since the last call.
In our targeted temperature management portfolio weve launched our new pad systems for use with neonates and pediatric patients this past quarter in Japan as well as neonatal kit in Russia.
We waive regulatory clearance to launch the product here in the U.S.
Were also on track to launch a new software upgrades with enhanced functionality and additional international language support later this quarter.
Moving to oncology were waiting U.S.
regulatory clearance to allow the launch of our Freehand Stereotactic System for vascular access named Pinpoint GT.
This first launch of the technology is expected to rollout on a new ultrasound platform around the middle of next year.
The system is designed to improve the success of first attempt needlestick access across multiple clinical applications.
The technology is also backwards compatible to the installed basis to Site-Rite 6 Site-Rite Vision 1 and Vision 2 systems.
In PICCs were tracking toward expected clearance of our first family of thromboresistant catheters in the first half of 2015.
We planned to broaden the thromboresistant offering to our full line of PICCs over the course of the following quarters.
Similarly we anticipate launching our first antimicrobial PICC in the second half of 2015 subject to regulatory clearance followed by a series of launches to support coated PICCs in our popular PowerPICC and PowerPICC SOLO configurations.
Were also progressing on our entirely new PICC platform we believe will be the foundation for several new product family.
We now anticipate launching our first product to mid next year.
For competitive reasons we may continue to hold the details back until that first launch.
In June we mentioned the development of our next generation PowerGlide Midline Catheter family.
And Im pleased to report were making steady progress and anticipate a first product launch in the second half of next year.
This new generation of PowerGlide builds on our simplified insertion technique in all-in-one design to enhance in fusion therapy for patients who need venous access for up to 29 days but dont need access through the central circulation.
Ill close my portion of the discussion today with surgery.
And Im pleased to announce the recent clearance of the first ever antibiotic quoted biologic mesh XenMatrix AB.
Weve talked about the development over the past several calls and Im excited to tell you that well begin the rollout of XenMatrix AB later in Q4.
XenMatrix AB utilizes our proprietary coding which is intended to preserve the integrity of the BioLogic graft and abdominal wall reconstruction procedures and as demonstrated broad spectrum safety and efficacy against several typically encountered bacteria.
Moving to our BioSurgery product family.
In early Q3 we filed our PMA supplement for our Progel Sealant seeking to expand use in video-assisted and robot-assisted thoracic surgery.
Our filing was on schedule and we remain optimistic for our first half 2015 approval and launch.
Next were just a few patients from completing enrollment in our vascular sealant pivotal IDE.
This study should expand our indications beyond thoracic surgery to include vascular applications of Progel.
We now anticipate submission of our PMA in the first half of 2015 which is about a quarter ahead of our previous schedule with potential approval early to mid 2016 depending upon the regulatory review path.
And finally in mesh fixation we remain on track to launch our first spring-loaded resorbable pack device named OPTIFIX in the first half of 2015.
We also anticipate launching another fixation platform later in the year but given the highly competitive nature of the space well hold further details on device specifics until closer to launch.
The products discussed today represent just a few of the highlights of our new product pipeline.
I look forward to discussing these in further detail and introducing others in the coming quarters.
Thanks very much for your attention.
Ill hand the discussion over to Chris.
Thank you John.
Lets start with the items that affect the comparability of our results between periods.
In Q3 we had a net benefit in our acquisition-related items of $1.2 million driven by a favorable purchase accounting adjustment.
We took a $6.2 million charge for an asset impairment and a $1.7 million charge for restructuring and productivity initiatives.
Last quarter we told you about the judges order and the womens health litigation that we work up 200 cases simultaneously which has now been increased to 500 cases.
The charge in Q3 for those expenses was $13.2 million.
The P&amp;L impact of these items is detailed in the notes of the financial statements and the reconciliation accompanying our Q3 earnings press release.
Now let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $521.1 million or 62.8% of sales for Q3.
On an adjusted basis gross profit was $518.5 million or 62.5% of sales up a 100 basis points from the prior year with a 180 basis points of benefit coming from the Gore royalty.
New amortization of intangibles related to transactions closed in the last 12 months was about 70 basis points again this quarter.
Price was unfavorable at 130 basis points on a revenue line and about 40 basis points in gross profit which we were more than able to offset with about 70 basis points in cost savings.
Next in FX where each headwinds of about 20 basis points this quarter.
So our gross margins improve sequentially over Q2 as we projected and we expect Q4 on an adjusted basis to be an improvement over Q3.
So right now it looks like we are going to exceed our original gross margin guidance for the full year.
SG&amp;A expenses were $242 million for the quarter or 29.2% of sales.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A as a percentage of net sales was 29.1% no change from Q3 of 2013.
We continued to invest significantly in emerging markets and the early approval of Lutonix will drive some additional launch expenses into 2014.
So we are now projecting to be around 29.5% of sales for the full year.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $73.1 million or 8.8% of sales on a reported basis for the third quarter.
On an adjusted basis R&amp;D was $65.9 million or 7.9% of sales and we continue to project to be around 8% for the full year.
Interest expense was $11.2 million for the third quarter no change from the prior year.
Other income and expense was $14.5 million of expense for the third quarter as reported and about a $0.5 million of income on an adjusted basis.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 25.5% and with the higher mix of U.S.
income and originally projected we now expect the effective tax rate for the full year to be around 25% assuming the renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit in Q4.
Diluted shares for the period were 76.3 million as we did not repurchased any shares in the third quarter.
I will remind you that we were active with repurchases in the first half of the year and we continue to have a little over $500 million of authorization for additional repurchases.
And that result is adjusted EPS for Q3 of $2.15 well above the guidance range we provided for the quarter driven by the higher sales.
The balance sheet as of September 30th reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of $1.04 billion versus $1.01 billion at June 30th.
For the quarter accounts receivable days were down 1.3 days and inventory days were up 0.1 days.
Capital expenditures totaled $34.4 million for the quarter.
On the liability side total debt was $1.4 billion as of September 30th compared to $1.6 billion at June 30th.
Debt to total capital at the end of the third quarter was about 43% and total shareholder investment was $1.8 billion at September 30th.
Now moving to financial guidance.
For Q4 we are expecting constant currency sales growth between 8.5% and 9.5% with about a 100 basis points of headwind from FX on a reported basis.
At this point if rates stay where they are we expect the impact to 2015 net sales to also be around 100 basis points of headwind.
Included in the Q4 sales guidance is a headwind of about 50 basis points from the net impact in the quarter from our 2013 business development activity.
Its been a benefit during the first three quarters of 2014 but flips to a headwind in Q4 now that the Loma Vista and Medafor acquisitions are both out of the calculation and the impact from the EP divestiture outweighs the partial quarter from the Rochester acquisition.
From an EPS standpoint excluding the items affecting comparability we are raising our full year guidance to between $8.34 and $8.38 which puts Q4 between $2.22 and $2.26.
This includes about $0.06 from the assumed renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit and incremental headwind from FX of about $0.02.
So those of you wondering about the FX headwind on 2015 we would estimate that to be around $0.10 given todays rates.
Finally as I mentioned due to the early Lutonix approval we have significant launch expense in Q4.
So we expect the incremental EPS impact from the early launch of Lutonix to be about neutral to Q4 2014.
With that I will turn you back to Tim.
Thanks Chris.
That does conclude the formal part of the presentation.
I'll now turn the call back to the moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A session.
Due to the large number of investors on the call I'd ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
Thanks.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question will come from Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Go ahead please.
Thanks.
Can you hear me okay? We can Bob.
Fine Bob.
Great.
Good afternoon.
So two questions one for Tim and one for Chris.
First Tim I realized you were asked this question last quarter but its a strategy question and a lot has happened in the last quarter in med tech.
So historically you guys have been very consistent when it comes to your M&amp;A strategy but I just -- you were compelled to ask the question in terms of how that might evolve going forward given all the consolidation that we are seeing in the marketplace and given the change we are seeing going along the hospital level? So I guess my question is are you more likely to consider potential larger transactions or is a larger deal no more likely than it would have been a year ago? Yeah.
I would say whats going on within the sector doesnt really impact our views strategically on acquisitions generally or the size of them.
I think its one of the advantages of -- frankly the product leadership strategy that weve had in place for a number of years as you know we are number one and number two in a large percentage of our revenue 80% or so totally so.
When you maintain that kind of position and work hard towards that the aspect of others consolidating doesnt really have much of an impact on new strategy or shift there might be.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
And then for Chris just a question on 2015.
You guys have been providing us at least some color historically on 2015 thoughts and I realize there is a few moving parts but it seems like you may have pretty significant amount of operating leverage next year.
And so I just wanted to get a sense for kind of any thoughts you would be willing to give on operating margin leverage goals for next year and just how you are thinking about next year relative to the performance you are delivering here year-to-date in 2014 which of course is a little ahead of consensus thinking? So Im just looking for any updated thoughts on 15 especially as it relates to operating leverage goals.
Sure Bob.
I am certainly not going to give 2015 guidance today so hopefully you understand that.
I think we continue to be very focused on and Tim laid it out in his prepared remarks.
We are year and half into executing the strategic investment plan.
I think weve done everything we said we would up until now.
We certainly understand that 2015 is a very important year.
We continue to accelerate organic growth as we said we would this year.
That continues to be the objective going forward.
And weve talked about 15 being a year that does have significant operating leverage with the Gore royalty having being anniversaried at that point.
So we are focused on doing everything we said we would.
I am not going to give guidance today but we are focused on finishing 2014 strongly.
We certainly delivered and exceeded the commitments we made to you on 14.
And hopefully you will tune in at the end of January and we can talk about 2015 guidance.
Fantastic to those two.
Thanks.
You are welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Brooks West with Piper Jaffray.
Go ahead please.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
Chris a follow-up to that on the Gore royalty.
It seems like $38 million has been about the number.
Is that what we should have in our models? And then do you have any updated thoughts on the durability of that royalty looking forward? Yes.
I think we continue to think obviously 35 to 40 as a reasonable number.
I would -- we are certainly focused at the low end of that range.
Thats what we talked about coming into the year.
And we continue to think about it that way.
We dont have any update frankly with respect to the durability of that royalty.
We as we talked about would expect it to decline over time but there is really no additional information.
Again we are focused on things we can control.
We recognize there is potential variability in that number which is we hope you will understand that we continue to guidance within a range on the top and bottomline.
But it will be something that will take quarter by quarter.
And again we are focused on doing things that strengthen the organic engine of the business such that over time the royalty obviously is a much less meaningful component of the P&amp;L.
Thanks.
And then follow-up to that.
You guys are throwing up obviously a ton of cash.
We talked about M&amp;A.
Maybe for John Weiland or Tim can you talk about maybe organic investment opportunities be it emerging markets or throwing a little bit more money at sales or R&amp;D? Kind of what are you seeing as the big opportunities in the current portfolio? Let me maybe I will describe our process how we work that and John can maybe give you a little more detail.
We for years now have had a process where every quarter we have a standing queue of additional investments we would make once we get comfortable with where were going to be for the quarter.
They are pretty much longer profile of the investments we made in the past R&amp;D and sales force expansion.
So we are kind of standby ready to go and its a regular part of our business process here to be able to turn spending on incrementally over and above what our individual businesses P&amp;Ls.
So we are set to go to move pretty quickly on that.
I will turn it over to John.
I think the only thing I would add to that as you may recall we added approximately 200 physicians in 2013 primarily focused on the emerging market side of it and really focused on the end of the year.
We have continued to add physicians into those markets this year.
So you are going to -- you are seeing in the SG&amp;A a component of the growth of those heads that we added last year as well as from the sales forces that we added this year.
So we continue to invest in those opportunities as we see the opportunities present themselves.
So safe to say emerging markets top of the list.
I mean could you give us any view on what might be number two or number three on the list? Well I would start by saying we are trying for higher and faster run rate growth.
So that kind of the top filter that we go through where each of those individual components fit within that are obviously prioritized but I am safe to say there is emerging markets is pretty high.
As you know the return on that will be faster than on some of the R&amp;D investments but we are kind of looking at all fronts and not just singularly focused on any one.
All right.
Thanks guys.
You are welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Larry Keusch with Raymond James.
Go ahead please.
Thanks.
I recognized that its extremely early in the U.S.
launch for the Lutonix DCB.
But I am just curious sort of what youre hearing from the field and specifically how the messaging is going to the physicians relative to the nuisance of the LEVANT 2 study? I think that we are very encouraged with what we see early on in the marketplace.
The physicians that weve had the opportunity to spend time with all see the value of DCBs in their practice.
I would also say that I am not sure if you noticed or not but when we received the approval on Friday we actually started shipping product on Friday and actually did our first cases on Saturday.
So I think that it was obvious to us that the marketplace and patients were waiting for this therapy and we are delighted the way its started.
Okay terrific.
And then Tim you are coming up on the anniversary of the Rochester Medical acquisition so I would be curious your thoughts on kind of how you think the first year went with that organization in place and how you are thinking about again the opportunities to move outside of the hospital and build that side of your business as you move into 2015? Sure.
I will answer part of that and then I will turn it over to Chris to answer the other part.
Generally speaking we are pleased with the piece of the integration the acceptance of the technology and our organization capability development as it relates to the homecare market in that regard.
I think we have expanded our capabilities both outside the U.S.
in that area taking advantage of the breadth that we have in terms of just critical mass and continuing to move forward.
And we do expect that to be an ongoing trend in the U.S.
in terms of the shift of treatment out of hospitals more to the home.
So generally speaking we are pretty pleased with the acquisition so far.
Yes.
I think the integration has gone well.
We are tracking nicely relative to our model.
I think we are further appreciating some of the global expansion opportunities with the portfolio more broadly across Europe frankly and we are working on some expansion plans as we speak.
I think bringing together the portfolio in the U.S.
has gone well and is giving us an important new way to speak to urologists and to frankly partner with the DMEs in the way we havent historically.
And we are also frankly looking at different sales channels into some of the rehab centers and some of the market categories that Rochester hadnt been focused on as a standalone company.
So I think there is a lot to still do in the core of what we acquired and what we already had.
We are continuing to assess other product opportunities and service opportunities even more broadly outside of urology but I think there is a lot to do and a lot of growth to get within the core franchise.
And as we look at adjacencies if you can find opportunities that make sense we will pursue them but I think thats going to be over the more medium and long term since there is plenty to do with the existing.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Sure Larry.
Thank you.
We have a question from Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
The two questions.
So the first question is the geographic performance.
So if we look at what I think you said your revenue growth was ex the Gore royalty and ex the M&amp;A activity.
Your growth has really been led by the U.S.
and it doesnt really look like you are getting the contribution yet from the emerging markets piece of the business.
So maybe just talk a little bit about that because I think we would have looked back 18 months ago I think we would have thought that emerging markets would have been given the size of the company would be driving the growth and the U.S.
would have been growing still relatively low single digits.
So its good news but obviously the U.S.
has accelerated the way it has but the second piece of it seems like there still some opportunity there in emerging markets which hasnt yet been realized.
Yes.
Mike I think part of what you need to remember is emerging markets is still a relatively small part of the portfolio.
It think its growing very well.
Its up to 8.5% of sales even after the divestiture of EP which is showing frankly significant momentum over the last year or so.
I think again the U.S is so dominant and prominent in the portfolio that as the U.S does better it obviously makes it harder for even a very strong performance in emerging markets to move the needle as much as you might like.
But I think were very bullish about where we are in the emerging markets how weve executed in the emerging markets and the runway we still have and listen Id love for increase contribution from emerging markets to be harder to get because the U.S is growing faster than we might have thought it would.
Thats going to be great for the company.
So I would disagree a bit with the characterization.
I think were executing exactly the way we thought.
Its going to continue to become more prominent.
But the flipside and good news to that is the U.S is doing a little bit better than we thought as well.
So Chris really and so there you guys break it out with that the different buckets and other international.
So there is basically the adult call it developed world outside of the U.S is weighing down the international performance.
So were not really seeing the impact in the emerging market because of that as you are saying? I think obviously there are certain geographies.
We -- Europe is actually growing nicely even on organic basis.
Obviously the Rochester acquisitions are significant contributor there but even excluding that were continuing to see nice organic growth in Europe largely driven by Lutonix and frankly our success in increasing PICC penetration.
Im not exactly sure what youre focused on.
I think other international Yeah.
I was just Yeah.
Other international when you exclude  revenue growth there.
When you exclude the impact of EP divestiture is up 11% and obviously emerging markets is driving that growth to a very significant degree.
Yeah.
Let me ask one strategic question for Tim.
And so Tim this is really a different question than Bobs earlier on and if you look at the deals that have been done in the sector or contemplate in the sector over the last nine months most of them are primarily financial deals the strategic piece would seem to be secondary? And when I say the financial deal the big part of that is probably Im saying is that you had management teams you had board that have looked opportunistically to create shareholder value utilizing the balance sheets and utilizing certain opportunities that you have to borrow at relatively low rate and then due immediately accretive transactions and set themselves up the multiple years of double-digit EPS growth? Does that type of transaction still not appeal to you? One that have been announced and that separate from the strategic question and the value of them but we have to create a shareholder value through this financially very attractive deals that some of your counterparts are doing? Yeah.
I think its a great question.
I think our eyes are wide open.
On one hand were very focused on revenue growth and were big believer that that creates a lot of shareholder value with that and clearly the investments weve made over the last several years have all been focused towards that.
On the other hand we understand the impact of leverage and accretion and trying to pull something else into our financials or operations and grinding it out that way.
I think the question is in our view how does that set you up for growth going forward? And thats a longer term view.
And then I think its important that you need to take a balance look and understanding both of those things.
So again never to say never on anything relative to a deal but I think we do a pretty good job of keeping our eyes wide open in terms of assessing both kinds of transactions.
If you want to look at one is being more revenue driven the other one is being just more accretion driven.
Chris I think you want to add.
Yeah.
And I would say were not against or afraid of those types of transactions.
Particularly in some cases its lot easier.
And certainly we consider them and we will continue to consider them and if we find one that we think make sense well pursue it obviously not without risk.
And I think the Tims point whatever we do we certainly would hope on top of nice financial accretion over some short period of time.
Wed be able to strengthen the portfolio as you think about how its going to be able to grow organically long-term.
And were open to it.
We look at everything.
We consider everything and were certainly focused on driving shareholder value at the end of the day.
And if we find things that we think make sense we absolutely are not afraid of pursuing them and doing them.
Thats great.
Thank you guys.
Sure.
Sure.
Thank you.
And well go next to Dave Turkaly with JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Is our understanding you guys have invested a lot in that Lutonix launch.
And I was wondering if you will be willing to share maybe in some incremental details with us.
Either docs targeted how many of these guys you know already your sales force size? And then maybe even coders or even the timeline of those coders in terms of the production youre looking for?  Im going to give you the first five pages of our playbook here but Dave we really cant.
I will tell you we have a very integrated playbook.
Our teams are fully trained.
Our targets are established.
Were active in the field.
All of us are engaged the senior leaders in the organization.
I would say the best way for I -- that we could characterize this is its probably one of the largest launches weve had as a corporation.
We recognize that when we resource that appropriately.
The only think I would add is obviously with any PMA approval product.
You have some period of time to prepare for this.
So its not like -- its not upon us your -- so we've had a lot of prep time.
We actually have conducted senior management reviews of the launch program well in advance of a year prior to the approval and weve gone through iterations of that.
So were all pretty well familiar with whats been going on.
And I can tell you that I would be hard pressed to find somebody to come in here and tell us that there is something we have thought about relative to launching product.
Thank you.
And I guess just as a quick follow-up.
Any noticeable Im imaging youre still adding some flows but any noticeable uptick and maybe some quality reps from some of your bigger peripheral competitors who may now need to divest some assets? Thanks a lot.
No obvious change in that issue in the marketplace from our perspective.
We certainly have our eyes and ears open but weve not noticed anything significant.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Go ahead please.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
I just wanted to go back to confirm did you guys did no share repurchases in the quarter? Is that correct? Yeah.
Thats right Kristen.
Okay.
I was just curious as to why when I look back I guess its over the last 12 quarters or so there has been pretty consistent share repurchase activity.
It was just a pause for any particular reason or how should we just think about that? I know in the last quarter or two you had mentioned that you had finished the redeployment of cash from the Gore settlement.
Im just wondering how should we think about share repurchases going forward?  So obviously to that point Kristen we were aggressive doing the first half of the year as we completed the commitment we had made around Gore.
Frankly as we got towards the end of Q2 went into early Q3 post the panel and while we are in very interactive review with the FDA it became clear that an earlier approval of Lutonix was possible.
And upon the PMA being approved we had a $100 million milestone payment which you guys all know.
So thats something we had very good visibility.
That was going to be coming in the October timeframe.
So thats an allocation of cash flow and capital that weve deployed.
So as we talk about visibility to pipeline and M&amp;A opportunities factoring into the gating of our repurchase activity thats the way you should think about that.
But well continue to be active.
We have 529 million of authorization remaining as we sit here today.
And again the commitment around returning free cash flow to shareholders to the extent we can find more productive ways or better ways to invest it is something that obviously weve shown through nine months in 2014.
So I think its really just a combination of those factors but you should expect to see us to continue to be active on a go-forward basis.
Perfect.
And then just on the guidance I think you touched back this on a prior question but did you specifically break out what your assumption is for Gore and underlying growth for the fourth quarter on an organic basis? I know there is something about headwinds net of the divestiture would be about like 50 basis points.
But what are you expecting for organic growth? And Tim maybe if you can maybe comment on the overall environment.
You seem to suggest that you didnt see any noticeable uptick with respect to the Foley business though there is some other companies out there saying they are seeing some modest increase in utilization.
Thanks.
All right.
So Kristen I think the way to think about it is 8.5 to 9.5 of constant currency which included a 50 basis point headwind from the business development activity.
So you are at 9 to 10.
I think from a rounding standpoint you would think of Gore is 4.5%to 5% of that growth.
So you are really in the 4% to 5% organic range toward Q4 is the way I bracketed for you.
Okay.
And in terms of the environment its a -- kind of a mixed pack.
When Chris talked about emerging markets obviously we are seeing good underlying growth within those markets that continues.
And the U.S.
is kind of a mixture of lot of different things that Im not sure will provide anymore clarity than what weve seen in prior quarters.
As you mentioned the Foley line which is more of an in-hospital admission oriented product line for us.
From the way that it did and as procedures move where patients are treated outside the hospital all that means for us is our sales people move from a hospital setting to some place else.
So its just really hard to say right now.
It feels a little bit -- perhaps that the volumes have come back a little bit.
But when you look at our peer group as you all do we see mixed bag in some of those results as well.
So hard to predict feels like it might be getting a little bit better but hard for us to pinpoint any metric to tell you with a lot uncertainty thats the case.
Great.
Congratulations again on the early approval of Lutonix.
Im sure a lot of work went into that.
Thanks Kristen.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We have a question now from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Go ahead please.
Hi there.
Guys its actually Chris Hammond in for David.
My first question I wanted to circle back to Brookss question regarding the existing product portfolio and where you guys are really focusing on.
And if I think back to beginning when you laid out your initial strategic plan back in the first quarter of last year you had really set the goals around trying to get back to or above market growth rates.
But looking at other companies that have really reported thus far it seems to us on average that most of these companies are starting to grow now in the 5% to 6% organic growth range.
And you guys have had clear uptick in performance.
I think it was just like 0.5% growth first quarter than just over 3% last quarter or 3.7%.
This quarter there is a lot of acceleration there.
But there is still seems to be a few -- a couple hundred more basis points in order to get back to sort of that market growth rates.
So if I can -- thinking about Brooks question but just pegging in a different way.
If you really had to anchor to your top three or four best shots on goal where do you think you can drive the needle is that Lutonix Progel new PICCs et cetera whats really going to move the dial here? Yeah.
Well first of all let me just comment on your assessment of the external environment on a competitive landscape.
Thats not the numbers we have.
I referenced it a moment ago answering a question where we said that yeah we are seeing mixed results.
Organic growth rates from other companies than U.S.
and thats exactly it.
There are very few companies with an organic growth rate of close to 6% as you talked about.
So you can get to Todd Garner later and try to get clarification there but thats not what we are seeing.
Secondly as it relates to our growth opportunities the one thing about us or a thing about us we talk about often is we are not about one big thing.
We are about a lot of little things.
You heard John DeFord giving update of the various status of -- not even half of the things that weve got going.
All of those directed at faster growing opportunities than what we are growing as an overall company.
So clearly he hit the highlights.
Thats kind of the point why we havent gone through that section.
But we are optimistic about all the investments that weve made that weve laid out over the last several calls to begin.
Okay.
Great.
Thats very help -- they are very very helpful.
And just as a quick follow-up.
Youve seen pretty good EBIT leverage this year from the Gore transaction but can you give us a little bit of prospective on whats the forward potential for EBIT leverage as this Gore contribution starts to normalize? Looking at whats kind of the normal run rate of expansion that we should expect through the next couple of years? Yeah I think Chris certainly 15 will show continued nice improvement in leverage.
We talked about focusing on returning to 2012 levels over time thats what were working on doing.
Obviously there has been dilution associated with the business development activity which I think we walked everybody through.
That will take some time for us to overcome.
But the by and large the new products both acquired and invested in our higher gross margin products.
Thats a clear intent of the investments are continuing to try to drive gross margins higher through cost improvement initiative obviously price continues to be a headwind and probably will be for as far as we can see.
But clearly the infrastructures that weve been building in particular in emerging markets will drive significantly improved drop through over time as we continue to fill their bags with products through registrations.
And we dont need to invest in the same level of growth in SG&amp;A while revenue should continue to grow at attractive rate.
So were focused on driving leverage improvements year after year and thats certainly part of the model and thats certainly part of the commitment that weve made.
Great.
Thats very helpful.
I appreciate the questions.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Anthony Petrone with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
And two questions.
One maybe to begin with Tim or Chris can you may be provide a little bit more detail on the hernia claims that you filed in the July Q.
The number jumped out a bit and one of your competitors seem to have a pretty large settlement in Texas.
So maybe where the current reserves are as it relates to the hernia claims and how you see those cases sort of playing out overtime and then one follow-up on vascular? Thanks.
Anthony I assume you are referring to the womens health-related litigation Thats correct.
Yeah.
So well file our Q in the next couple of days so youll get updated disclosure.
Obviously we are well aware of what is going on with respect to the litigation more broadly across the industry.
Obviously by the fact that we didnt take an incremental reserve this quarter by definition means that we are comfortable with how we are currently reserved based on everything we know.
Thats something we continue to evaluate.
Obviously in Q2 you did see us enter into a meaningful settlement as well and -- we are certainly as we move forward going to manage that exposure the best we can on behalf of share holders and that will be through a combination of continuing to litigate aggressively and obviously settling to the extent that we can do so what we see as appropriate and reasonable level.
So there will be more to come clearly over the coming quarters for us and others.
But its obviously something that were focused on in working hard at putting behind us the best where we can for the company.
All right.
its helpful and just on vascular broadly may be John DeFord or Weiland if you can go in to how you see the landscape playing out in the U.S if we consider peripheral interventions.
Now we have drug-eluting stents available bare metal stance and now of course Lutonix.
So may be when you consider all of those technologies now available in the market place how do you sort of see share ships playing out amongst the categories?.
But we are not really saying there is going to be -- we talked about this last quarter.
We are not -- we have not really thought that there is going to be a significant share shift.
We think that drug-eluting balloons can be used adjunctively to a lot of other therapies that are around in the market place today.
And we think there is some unique patient benefits associated with it.
And our job is really to grow our portfolio of products within our vascular business by coming out with new products new indications that have significant meeting the clinicians and patients and thats exactly what we will do.
And Id evidence that by FLUENCY Plus which we launched in the second quarter.
The light stand additions which John talked about in his prepared remarks and that is really meant to give us momentum across the product lines within vascular while have to jump to broke coming out of our DCB launch? And so John DeFord here just a couple of other quick points Lifestream which is our balloon expandable stent graft.
Its another device we just launched in Europe but going back to the drug coated balloon we do think over time that drug-coated balloon will be the primary initial therapy.
We think that DCB will ultimately replace standard PTA as kind of standard of care as a first line.
And then if you dont get an optimal result we think -- or you dont think you can get optimal result we think atherectomy will still be used in patient stencils still be used.
We think overtime with the kind of results that weve seen with our technology and re- intervention rates so theyre virtually identical to stent alone that youd see this as the first-line therapy.
And then in the event you get recoil significant dissection or something like that it might go to a stent to another technology.
No its helpful.
Maybe -- is atherectomy an area you think you need to fill? We were constantly looking at all the different technologies and where we think it would make sense for us to be involved and where we think we could meaningfully add to patient treatment and clinician needs.
So never say never were always looking.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We have a question from Matthew O'Brien with William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Afternoon.
Thanks for taking the questions.
For John DeFord can you give us a sense for when we should anticipate seeing the 24-month data from Lutonix? Sure.
As we said on one of our previous calls late this month is sort of the absolute earliest.
So if you think about we have a two-month follow-up window.
Last enrollment was in July.
So end of September would be last follow-up.
And I can confirm that we have at this date all of our two-year follow-ups have taken place and all of our one-year follow-ups have actually taken place now for our continued access registry so that additional 657 patient.
So now its a matter of getting them monitored.
We have a unique aspect of the LEVANT 2 study where every adverse event is adjudicated by the clinical events committee.
Thats a little bit burdensome frankly but thats the way that study was designed.
So thats also in process right now to try to get that done.
So we think the best case sort of late November early December we could have data available and scrubbed for two year and then its a matter of when is the best time we have around that to disclose.
So I can say that there is discussions going on and we are not holding anything back.
We think frankly what weve seen so far is very good durability of results but we dont want to give you initial numbers and then updated numbers and then final numbers.
We want to just give you a one set of numbers.
We think thats going to be -- technically we should have it in our hands around the end of November early December.
And then its just when is the right time to present.
Okay.
And then as a quick follow-up on Lutonix.
And just another question was asked before as far as the rollout goes.
I mean fairly early in the quarter where youve got that improved and you mentioned John Weiland that you already saw in the product.
And Im assuming that the investment here that youre going to make for the quarter is going to be pretty sizeable but just still kind of guiding to neutral impact to earnings.
So would it be reasonable to assume that the revenue contribution in Q4 would be something around 1% of revenues maybe something north of that?  Yeah.
I think Matt I mean obviously we didnt get it in the beginning of the quarter right.
And I think thats the reasonable number to think about if perhaps we had a full quarter and if perhaps we had the quarter two ourselves.
I think its certainly fair to assume that we might not even have all of Q4 to ourselves when you think about the competitors potential timeline.
So I think so on a very high side that thats probably reasonable again with the full quarter and with the full quarter alone.
Since I think were not quite talking about that youre probably talking about something slightly below that number.
Okay.
So when you talk about the neutrality of the earnings then thats inclusive of any kind of cannibalization or potentially the competitor getting to market maybe in December? Yeah.
Got it.
Thank you.
Sure.
Thank you.
We will go next to Richard Newitter with Leerink Partners.
Go ahead please.
Hi thanks for squeezing me in.
Just the two quick ones.
You mentioned pricing -- ongoing pricing pressures I was just wondering if you could update us there any delta or changes for prior quarters and what youre seeing out there? Then I have a follow-up.
Yeah.
So for the quarter as we said were 130 basis points on the topline.
Year-to-date were about a 110.
Weve talked about this new -- unfortunately new normal of sort of 100 to 150 basis points.
So were continuing to be in that range.
It really highlights the criticality of having product leadership and I think the Lutonix DCB is a great example of how you fight against price overtime by having really differentiated technology.
So unfortunately were managing in that environment thats what we expect to deal with going forward.
So Id say that there has been no real change over the medium term.
And as we said here today were going to be where we thought we would be relative to our guidance for the full year somewhere between 1 and 150 basis points.
Great.
Thanks for that.
And then just on R&amp;D just it was a bit below what were looking for.
And is that push-out I think you got it to greater than 8% previously and now youre saying its expected to bounce back to 8%.
Just any comments there on that.
Yeah.
Sure 7.9 for the quarter and frankly weve exceeded the topline.
And the nature of those investments are not as we exceed the topline we can immediately increase R&amp;D spend versus that.
So I think an 8% number for the full year in an environment where were going to have nicely exceeded the topline for the full year makes sense to us.
And certainly when you think about the level of spend on a dollar basis its dramatically higher than it was in 2012 when we embarked on this plan.
So were spending what we really planned on spending.
The percentage being somewhat lower really is primarily related to the fact that the topline is higher than we had thought.
Well and there were a few timing issues.
So R&amp;D isnt completely smooth.
We have clinical trial expense that kind of bumps around and weve direct project expense that again kind of moves around.
And so I think that all-in-all were where we need to be where we want to be.
I always asked for more.
So were always negotiating for the next step.
Weve plenty of good ideas in the pipeline and we are after it.
Hey operator were seven minutes past the hour.
I apologies to those in queue but were going to take one more question and then wrap it up.
Okay.
That will come from Michael Matson with Needham &amp; Company.
Go ahead please.
Thanks for fitting me in.
I guess I have two questions.
The first just to be Lutonix for the potential label expansions or indication expansions below-the-knee and in-stent restenosis.
Can you just gives us an update on where youre with involvement and what the pathway with you with the FDA to get those approved? And then my second question which is the what sort of impact do you expect from the new coatings on the PICC products the thromboresistant antimicrobial is that something you think you can get a pricing premium for so it would be a mix driver?  Okay.
Let me jump in first with that BTK and ISR and our work to expand the indications for the drug-coated balloon.
Frankly BTK is a tough enrolling study.
Some of that we think is a little bit of chill effect based on the recall of the competitive product that was on the market.
And so thats -- enrollment in that study is slower than wed like for sure although were making good progress.
Weve continued to try to work through FDA and work with investigator to find the appropriately patient mix to drive reasonable enrollment.
But thats a little slower that wed like.
In-stent restenosis a little bit easier to enroll but also challenging primarily around the fact that there are lot long length stents with restenosis that again weve got to work with the agency to try to figure out the right way to enroll all of those patients.
And I think were fully focused on doing what we can to expand those indications.
Its going to take some time.
I think our AV access study that I said that we anticipate starting enrollment mid next year.
We think thats probably a faster enrolling study.
And so were going to be focused on getting that out there as well.
The coatings let me ask John again turn over to John Weiland to talk about.
We do believe that any of the new coatings that we come to the market with on our PICC products will all be creative to the normal standard ASPs that we have today.
All right.
Thank you.
Welcome Mike.
Okay.
I guess that concludes the Q&amp;A.
Thanks for all your patience.
Sorry if we werent able to squeeze somebody in.
With that Id just like to thank all of you for joining us today.
And as I always do thank Bard employees around the world for all of their hard work and commitment not only for the quarter but for the entire year.
Thanks everybody.
Have a good night.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the CR Bard Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference will be recorded -- is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Christopher S.
Holland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which are based on management's current expectations.
The accuracy of these statements are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
These statements are not historical in nature and use words such as anticipate estimate expect project intend forecast plan believe and other words of similar meaning.
Many factors may cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results including product development sales efforts income tax matters and outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings.
The uncertainty of loss reserve estimates share repurchases acquisitions and other economic business competitive and regulatory factors.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information in Bard's September 30 2014 10-Q and the information under the caption Risk Factors in the company's 2013 10-Q including disclosure of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance of the company and its individual product categories.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures with respect to the company's historical financial results are provided in Bard's earnings press release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of January 29 2015 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information unless otherwise noted.
All comparisons are to prior -- are to the prior year period.
At this time I will turn the conference over to Mr.
Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
That's a lot of work there I appreciate it.
I'd like to welcome everybody to Bard's Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call and thank all of you for taking the time to join us today.
I would expect the presentation portion of the call to last about 35 minutes or so.
The agenda today will go as follows.
I'll begin with an overview of the results for the fourth quarter.
John Weiland our President and COO will review fourth quarter product line revenue.
John DeFord our Senior VP of Science Technology and Clinical Affairs will give you an update on our product development pipeline.
And then Chris Holland our Senior VP and CFO will review the fourth quarter income statement balance sheet and also provide our financial guidance for 2015.
And then finally we'll wrap it up with Q&amp;A.
Fourth quarter 2014 net sales totaled $867.2 million that's up 10% over Q4 last year on an as-reported basis and up 11% on a constant currency basis.
The currency impact for the quarter versus the same quarter of 2013 was unfavorable by about 140 basis points.
The Gore royalty revenue in the quarter was approximately $38.6 million.
The impact of the divestiture of our EP business which occurred in Q4 2013 net of the impact of the Rochester Medical acquisition in the same quarter was unfavorable by about 20 basis points to growth for the quarter.
That all puts our organic growth rate for Q4 2014 at approximately 6.3% with a little over 200 basis points from the early approval and launch of the Lutonix drug-coated PTA balloon in the U.S.
Net sales for the full year 2014 were $3.3 billion that's up 9% as reported and on a constant currency basis which exceeded our original guidance for the year.
Net income for the fourth quarter was $134.2 million and diluted earnings per share were $1.72.
I'll remind you that we recognized the onetime gain from the Gore litigation in the prior year quarter.
Excluding this and other items that affected the comparability results between periods which Chris will cover later fourth quarter 2014 net income and diluted cash earnings per share which excludes amortization of intangibles were $158.9 million and $2.29 that's up 39% and 40% respectively.
Full year 2014 net income was $294.5 million and diluted EPS were $3.76.
Excluding items again that affect comparability between periods full year 2014 net income was $586 million and diluted cash EPS were $8.40 and that's up 23% and 29% respectively from 2013.
Again well in excess of our original guidance for the year.
Looking at fourth quarter revenue growth geographically compared to the prior year on a constant currency basis net sales in the U.S.
grew 14%.
Internationally we grew 5% with Europe up 3%; Japan up 2% and our other international geographies up 8%.
Excluding the Gore royalty and the EP divestiture impact net sales in the U.S.
grew 7% and total international sales were up 10% with Europe up 10%; Japan up 3%; and the remaining geographies up 11%.
As anticipated in our strategic investment plan our emerging market sales continued to increase and represented about 9% of our total revenue in Q4.
Looking back on 2014 we're pleased with the progress that we've made throughout the year.
2 years ago to remind you we introduced our 3-year strategic investment plan and then that same quarter our organic growth rate was flat.
We finished 2014 with our organic growth rate of our other portfolio in the mid single digits which is what we had projected.
It's difficult to know precisely what's happening in real time in the underlying markets but we believe the market organic growth continues to be in the low single digits.
While many in our sector had stronger growth in Q3 than expected some of those same companies then saw sequential deceleration of growth in Q4.
In contrast we continue to see sequential improvement on organic growth rate.
And we believe the implementation and execution of our strategic investment planning contributed to this acceleration.
As we look to 2015 we expect the full year organic growth rate to again improve over the full year 2014.
And to be clear that assumes no benefit from any underlying market improvement.
If the market improves as some are suggesting then we should do even better than that.
2015 is an important year of execution once again for us.
We expect our investments in emerging markets to continue to shift the mix of the portfolio of faster growing geographies.
The key to this initiative is improved productivity from the teams that we've built and additional product registrations in these markets.
In 2015 we also anticipate we'll begin to see some returns from our R&amp;D investments.
Over the past couple of years we've significantly increased the level of R&amp;D as we pursued expanded indications of current product platforms and introductions of new technologies.
We remain in investment mode.
The long-term objective is to drive above market revenue growth with a lower risk profile on a sustainable basis.
There obviously remains significant uncertainty in the market including unsettled issues in Washington.
FX headwinds at this magnitude frankly are as difficult and come up as quick as we've seen in years.
The market acceptance reimbursement decisions competitive response around drug-coated balloons in the U.S.
could have meaningful impact on our results.
And we have no way of knowing whether Gore royalty will increase decrease or be consistent compared to 2014 levels.
However amidst these uncertainties we remain focused on the execution of our strategic plan and the things we can control.
We believe our investments will improve the organic engine of the company in both revenue and profitability.
And as we said we measure success over the long term.
If 2015 brings some tailwinds to the market as some suggest we would look for opportunities to invest any short-term out-performance back into the business for longer-term benefit.
Chris will give you more details when he lays out our financial guidance.
We continue to believe that the effective execution of our strategic investment plan will allow us to continue to increase shareholder value over the long term and on a sustainable basis.
With that as an introduction let me turn you over to John Weiland for a review of our fourth quarter product line revenue.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start as usual I will be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior year period on a constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
So let's start with Vascular.
Total net sales in this category for the quarter were $244.6 million an increase of 19% on an as-reported basis and 22% on a constant currency basis when compared to the fourth quarter of 2013.
Excluding the Gore royalty and the impact of the EP divestiture global Vascular sales were up 9% with the United States business up 14% for the quarter and international up 3%.
Sales in our Vascular graft category were down 6% in Q4.
Excluding the Gore royalty our Endovascular business grew 11% in the fourth quarter.
Within Endovascular our biopsy line was up 1%.
Our peripheral PTA products were up 49% this quarter driven by the early FDA approval of the Lutonix drug-coated balloon in the United States on October 10.
We're extremely pleased with how our Vascular sales development and operations team executed the early launch of this first-of-a-kind product in the United States.
As you know we were shipping product to customers on the day of approval with the first cases being performed the following day.
The early market acceptance has been impressive and we look forward to expanded adoption of this technology longer term as the market continues to develop.
Our Stent business was down 10% in Q4 which is within the range of recent experience.
As we've said pricing headwinds continue to drive down ASPs in this category.
And to complete the category sales in our vena cava filter line were flat in the fourth quarter.
Now let's move to Urology.
Total net sales were $217.8 million which is up 8% versus the Q4 of last year on an as-reported basis and 9% on a constant currency basis.
About 600 points of this global growth was related to the Rochester acquisition which anniversary-ed in the quarter.
The United States business was up 6% while internationally we grew 14%.
The Targeted Temperature Management products saw strong double-digit growth this quarter and we remain optimistic about the long-term growth prospects of this technology platform.
Our vesic [ph] drainage business was up 7% in Q4 with about 400 points of that growth coming from the acquired Rochester Medical products.
I.C.
Foleys were down 2% globally with the United States down 4%.
These results in vesic [ph] drainage are fairly consistent with recent quarters.
While some surveys and reports have suggested improvement in United States hospital volumes we haven't seen any underlying improvement reflected here so far.
Our continence business grew 24% over the prior year quarter.
Excluding the impact of the acquired products our legacy continence products were down 6% for the quarter within the range of recent experience.
Sales in urological specialties were up 11% with emerging markets growing close to 40% organically in this category.
Our brachytherapy products were down 3% globally for the quarter.
And finally sales from our StatLock catheter stabilization line decreased 3% in the fourth quarter.
Now let's turn to Oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $237.5 million an increase of 8% over the fourth quarter last year on an as reported basis and 9% on a constant currency basis.
Net sales in the United States were up 7% while outside the United States sales were up 15%.
Our port line was up 5% versus the fourth quarter of last year with significant growth coming from emerging markets.
PICC revenue growth was 11% in Q4 but strong performance again in the United States and internationally.
Our vascular access ultrasound product line was up 8% this quarter.
And our dialysis catheter business was up 11% in the fourth quarter.
And we'll finish with Surgical Specialties.
Net sales in this category were $145.0 million in the fourth quarter up 3% on an as-reported basis and 4% on a constant currency basis.
United States sales increased 4% while international sales were up 6%.
As you know we anniversary-ed the 2013 acquisition of Medafor on the first day of the fourth quarter.
Our biosurgical product portfolio grew double digits organically in the quarter and we're excited about the long-term potential here.
Sales from our biosurgical products already exceed the combined sales of our fixation products and our natural tissue products.
Our soft tissue repair business grew 5% overall in the fourth quarter.
Our total synthetic hernia products were up double digits again this quarter while our natural tissue products declined 15%.
Closing out the surgical category our fixation business was down 3% in the fourth quarter and our performance irrigation business was down 14% versus an above average quarter 1 year ago.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to John DeFord.
Thanks John.
Good evening everyone.
2014 was a pretty busy year at Bard.
We launched over 40 new products and our pipeline of launches in 2015 is also robust.
Starting with drug-coated balloons.
We're making good progress on additional sizes and indications worldwide.
We're in the follow-up phase of our Levant 2 Japan study and we expect to submit late this year for Japan approval.
Enrollment continues in our Below the Knee IDE and in-stent restenosis studies and we are making good progress in our AV access IDE study with enrollment anticipated to start mid-2015.
We're also expanding the clinical science of DCBs through our robust real world clinical experience.
For example at LINC this week Dr.
Markus Stein presented a first look at interim 1 year results from the Lutonix global SFA and popliteal registry of almost 700 patients.
Lesion lengths were over 100 millimeters and treated lengths were almost 200 millimeters while roughly 30% of lesions were located in the popliteal artery.
Primary patency was 81.7% and 88.5% of patients were free from a re-intervention at 1 year.
Though randomized study designs are quite different making comparison of results very difficult across different studies.
Registries provide a more balanced comparison across technologies and we believe these results compare well to any of the competitive DCBs.
Also in Vascular we launched the LifeStream Balloon Expandable Covered Stent in Europe in Q4 and enrollment is going well in the IDE study to support an iliac artery disease indication in the U.S.
Finally in Vascular we're responding to some FDA questions and anticipate U.S.
launch in Q1 of the first in a series of new Tru-Flo PTA Catheters for use in valvuloplasty procedures.
Tru-Flo has a unique flow-through design to allow blood to pass through a large channel in the center of the balloon promoting prolonged inflation while potentially reducing the need for rapid pacing or other hemodynamic maneuvers used to reduce cardiac output during the time the balloon has expanded.
Next moving to Urology.
We've just begun the rollout of our new skyline sub 2 French stone basket family.
This new product in our endourology line provides the urologists with one of the smallest baskets in the industry yet provides high strength and maneuverability along with a highly visible atraumatic tip to aid in safe and accurate use.
In our Targeted Temperature Management portfolio we've just launched our new PAD systems for use with neonates and pediatric patients in the U.S.
And we're rolling out a new software update to support enhanced functionality and additional languages.
Moving to Oncology.
We're anticipating U.S.
regulatory clearance and launch about midyear of our freehand stereotactic system for Vascular Access named Pinpoint GT.
The technology will initially be offered on a new Site-Rite 8 system in a planned simultaneous launch.
Pinpoint GT will also be backwards compatible to Site-Rite 6.
In PICCs we're now tracking towards submission around midyear of our first family of thromboresistant devices.
We plan to broaden the offering to our full line of PICCs over the back half of 2015 and into 2016.
Similarly we anticipate submitting our first antimicrobial PICC in the second half of 2015 and launching upon regulatory clearance.
This first product will be followed by a series of launches to support coated PICCs in both our PowerPICC and PowerPICC SOLO configurations.
Turning to midlines.
We're making good progress in our next-generation POWERGLIDE family and currently anticipate our U.S.
regulatory submission in Q4 with a first half 2016 launch.
I'll close my portion of the discussion today with surgery.
We informed you on the last call that we just received U.S.
regulatory clearance of the first antibiotic-coated biologic mesh XenMatrix AB and I'm pleased to tell you that product was launched in December.
XenMatrix AB utilizes our proprietary coding which is intended to preserve the integrity of the biologic graft in abdominal wall reconstruction procedures and has demonstrated broad spectrum safety and efficacy against several typically-encountered bacteria.
Moving to our BioSurgery product family.
In early Q3 we filed our PMA supplement for our Progel sealant seeking expanded use in video-assisted and robot-assisted thoracic surgery.
We continue to be optimistic about approval and launch in the first half of this year.
Also we completed a follow-up early this year in our TRIDYNE vascular sealant pivotal IDE study.
The team is working toward PMA submission in the first half of the year and we anticipate approval and launch in mid-2016.
And finally in mesh fixation we remain on track to launch in the first half of the year our new spring-loaded resorbable tack device named OPTIFIX.
We also anticipate launching another fixation platform later in the year.
As Tim said we have a very important year of execution ahead of us and we look forward to updating you on our progress throughout the year.
As part of our effort for continuous improvement we initiated a survey of investors last year.
And one of the more common suggestions we received was to take a fresh look at the need to hold a formal analyst meeting every year.
We've been clear about our growth drivers and the opportunities we're pursuing and our investment strategy has not changed.
Because of that we have determined that a resource and time-intensive effort like a formal analyst meeting is just not justified this year.
We'll update you on our pipeline and growth drivers throughout the year if circumstances allow in the appropriate forum.
Thanks very much for your attention.
Now I will hand the discussion over to Chris.
Thank you John.
Let me start by covering the items that affect the comparability of our results between periods.
We had acquisition-related items of $7.5 million pretax mostly related to Lutonix milestone accretion and a $10.1 million pretax charge for restructuring and productivity initiatives.
We also booked expense of $12.7 million related to the judges order in the women's health litigation that we work up 500 cases simultaneously.
And finally we had a credit of $3.5 million pretax related to the medical device excise tax paid in 2013 after reaching an agreement with the IRS.
These items are detailed in the notes to the financial statements and the reconciliation accompanying our Q4 earnings press release.
Now let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $547.7 million in Q4 and $547.4 million on an adjusted basis or 63.1% of sales up 230 basis points from the prior year with 170 basis points of that improvement related to the Gore royalty and about 120 basis points coming from cost improvements.
We also had about 50 basis points of benefit when compared to the higher integration costs and investments in Q4 of 2013.
Some headwinds to GPs in Q4 were new amortization of about 50 basis points foreign exchange at about 10 basis points and mix of about 20 basis points.
Pricing pressure was about 100 basis points of headwind on the revenue line and about 30 basis points in GP in Q4.
We continue to expect pricing pressure going forward between 100 and 150 basis points on the revenue line.
For the full year 2014 that brings adjusted gross profit as a percentage of sales to 62.1% up 110 basis points from 2013 much better than our original guidance of 30 to 60 basis points of improvement.
While the Gore royalty did exceed our expectations the effect on GP was only 10 to 20 basis points higher than our projections from 1 year ago.
The overachievement was primarily driven by more favorable mix than originally expected.
SG&amp;A expenses were $257.5 million for the quarter or 29.7% of sales.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A was $261 million even or 30.1% of sales down 170 basis points from the prior year period driven by the Gore royalty being in the denominator as well as improving leverage from our emerging markets investments and the integration of our 2013 acquisitions.
For the full year 2014 adjusted SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales was 29.6% a decrease of 40 basis points from the prior year.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $79.2 million for the fourth quarter or 9.1% of sales.
On an adjusted basis R&amp;D expense was $71.5 million or 8.2% of sales a decrease of 70 basis points from the prior year period mostly driven by the Gore royalty now in the denominator.
For the full year 2014 on an adjusted basis R&amp;D expense was 8% of sales compared to 8.5% in 2013.
However without the Gore royalty and the revenue line R&amp;D expense would've been 8.4% of sales in 2014.
Interest expense was $11.2 million for the fourth quarter and $44.8 million for the full year.
Other income and expense was $25.1 million of expense for the fourth quarter.
On an adjusted basis it was $2.2 million of expense for the quarter and $4.7 million of income for the full year.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 23.2%.
On an adjusted basis it was 21.1% taking us to 24.3% for the full year.
The quarter was lower than the full year average due to the renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit in December.
At the beginning of the year we had told you to expect about 100 basis points of improvement in the effective tax rate in 2014 and we came in at 90 basis points of improvement despite significantly stronger U.S.
income than we had anticipated.
That all adds up to cash EPS of $2.29 for Q4 excluding items affecting comparability which brings us in at $8.40 for the full year on the same basis.
That's a full $0.10 above the high end of our original guidance for the year and above our updated guidance as well indicative of the strong performance we saw in 2014.
We purchased about 785 000 shares of the company's stock during the fourth quarter taking the total buybacks in 2014 to approximately 4.5 million shares at an average price of $146.67.
Between buybacks and dividends we returned approximately $725 million to shareholders over the course of 2014.
The balance sheet as of December 31 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of $1.01 billion versus $1.04 billion at September 30.
For the full year AR days were down 7.3 days and inventory days were up 0.2 days.
Capital expenditures totaled $36.6 million for the quarter and $126.6 million for the year.
On the liability side total debt was $1.5 billion as of December 31 versus $1.4 billion at September 30.
Debt to total capital at the end of the fourth quarter was about 45% and total shareholder investment was $1.8 billion at December 31.
So with a strong 2014 now in the books let's turn to financial guidance for 2015 excluding the impact of items that affect comparability.
For revenue we project 2015 constant currency organic revenue growth between 4% and 5%.
Given the potential variability of the Gore royalty our overall constant currency revenue guidance is between 3% and 5%.
As Tim said this assumes no fundamental improvement in the market growth rates from where they have been the last couple of years which we would characterize as low single digits.
If the markets improve as some suggest then we would expect to do better.
But with all of the uncertainties surrounding us we think it's too early to count on any improvement in the underlying markets.
Obviously foreign exchange rates are a significant headwind for everyone as we head into 2015 and we are certainly not immune to that.
We estimate that at current rates we're looking at a revenue headwind related to currency of about 3%.
As far as constant currency revenue growth in our 4 disease state categories in 2015 we expect Vascular revenue growth to be between 3% and 7%; Urology to be between 1% and 4%; Oncology to grow between 3% and 6%; and our Surgical Specialties business to grow between 3% and 6% as well.
We expect our overall gross margin percent to decline in 2015 by between 30 and 70 basis points compared to 2014.
That reflects about 50 basis points of pressure from FX and about 30 basis points of incremental amortization from the U.S.
approval of Lutonix in October of 2014.
Pricing pressure continues to be a significant issue for us.
And we estimate the impact on 2015 to be between 40 and 60 basis points of headwind to GP.
Fortunately our cost improvement programs are projected to once again contribute about 50 basis points of benefits to GP and we expect mix to be favorable between 20 to 40 basis points.
So organic constant currency gross margins are expected to improve in 2015 as we projected when we first introduced our strategic investment plan 2 years ago.
And again as we said we expect to see improving operating leverage in 2015.
While we continue to increase investment in emerging markets we expect SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales to decline between 50 and 100 basis points in 2015.
And we expect R&amp;D as a percentage of sales to be in the mid-7% range both excluding items that affect comparability.
We expect interest expense in 2015 to be between $45 million and $47 million.
We expect the effective tax rate to improve again this time between 0 and 50 basis points for the full year and this does assume the renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit for 2015.
All of that adds up to adjusted cash EPS for 2015 excluding items that affect comparability between $8.95 and $9.05 per share.
That includes a negative currency impact of about $0.25 based on today's rates.
So without this very atypical currency situation we would have been forecasting at or above our target of 10% EPS growth.
While we evaluated alternatives that could increase earnings for 2015 given the expected FX magnitude and the fact that this is certainly not a Bard-specific issue we don't think it would be wise for short-term benefit to scale back investments and possibly interrupt the momentum in organic growth that we achieved during 2014.
In the end we believe maintaining our flexibility and continuing to focus on the longer-term organic growth profile of the company builds better value for our shareholders.
In Q1 we expect constant currency sales growth between 4% and 5% and adjusted cash EPS between $2.04 and $2.08.
As for capital expenditures we expect 2015 to be similar to 2014 between $120 million and $140 million.
And we expect operating cash flow to be in the $700 million range again in 2015.
I'd like to conclude my comments by reminding you that the objective of our strategy is to position Bard from a portfolio standpoint to deliver above market revenue growth for years to come.
The key measure of success for this transition plan will be the improvement in the organic engine.
This plan was never about maximizing EPS in a given year but the strength in the business for the long-term in a disciplined and thoughtful way.
We believe we are doing that.
While we expect further improvement in our operating margins in 2015 we intend to remain in investment mode with the desired outcome of positioning the company for long-term success to enhance shareholder value.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Tim.
Thanks Chris.
While we're pleased with our performance in 2014 we have a lot of work in front of us to position the company where we want it to be.
As many of you have heard me repeat one of my favorite quotes great strategy is more about great execution than it is about great thinking.
2015 is a very important year of execution for us.
We're not taking anything for granted.
I'm sure there will be bumps along the way as there always is.
We're focused on the long-term health of the business with the intention of increasing shareholder value.
That does conclude the formal part of the presentation.
Let me now turn the call back to the moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Larry Keusch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess I would just start off Tim with asking a little bit.
You laid out nicely the expectations for 2015.
But I guess I'm thinking past 2015 and really trying to understand what the ultimate game plan is here.
Can you talk about as you look out what you think the appropriate levels of organic growth and perhaps EPS growth would be for the company? Yes Larry.
Obviously the market's volatile and especially as you grow into more and varied geographies the underlying market growth rates get even more complex.
We as we stated don't anticipate any change in the external environment for this year.
If it happens we'll do better than that.
We stated a couple of years ago that our goal was to be 200 to 300 basis points above what the market growth rate was and the competitive aspect of that within the sector.
That would still be our goal.
We're big believers that sustainable revenue growth drives shareholder value and that's what we're about.
So we remain fixated on that as a strategic objective.
We do think that there's a lot of leverage for us with the investments we've made in some of the emerging markets.
Just to put it in perspective that represents almost 1/3 of our total sales headcount but as we mentioned 9% of revenue.
So we think there's a lot of room to grow into that.
And those markets are growing clearly above what we called out as the market average in total.
So to the extent we can accelerate growth in those segments that are growing faster we should continue the momentum that we demonstrated last year.
Yes.
The only thing I'd add Larry as it relates to EPS growth is we're absolutely focused on double-digit EPS growth 10% EPS growth.
And certainly we believe the model will allow us to deliver that.
And without this recent move in the dollar we would have delivered 10% to 11% EPS growth in 2015.
So the growth organically on the top line we believe over time will allow us to drive 10% EPS growth.
Again this unprecedented move which cost us $0.25 now as we turn into '15 has just prevented that from happening this year.
But the plan the strategy and the leveraging on the investments over time should allow us to achieve that objective.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just again on the uses of cash you guys obviously generate a significant amount of free cash flow.
No significant M&amp;A done in 2014.
You obviously bought back a bunch of stock associated with the Gore bolus [ph] payment.
But can you talk about 2015 perhaps what your expectations may be for M&amp;A as well as would you be open to deploying cash for share repurchase? Sure.
I'll cover that kind of at a high level and Chris can chime in with detail.
Clearly our use of cash has not changed for well 10 years or longer.
It's strategic first.
We want to continue to invest in businesses technologies and platforms to grow the company.
And we'll continue to do that prioritize it that way.
Second would be share repurchases.
And third would be dividends in that order and there's no change to that.
Yes.
So again Larry I think obviously it's very much transaction dependent.
And as Tim says we're looking for the right acquisitions to make for the company every day.
I think the free cash flow does allow us to do both in the ordinary course continue to make acquisitions of a certain size as well as continuing to consistently return cash to shareholders.
We'll generate free cash flow in the $500 million to $600 million range that we can deploy in 2015.
First priority is strategic.
But even in conjunction with that I think we'll continue to have flexibility to do a bit of both.
Again deal dependent.
But in the ordinary course I would expect a balanced use of cash.
And our next question comes from the line of Brooks West with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> A couple on emerging markets for me.
Tim you mentioned 1/3 of sales headcount in emerging markets versus 9% of revenue.
How long will it take for that ratio to normalize? And kind of can you walk us through the levers that's associated with that? That's question 1.
Question 2 is where you are with the product registrations in emerging markets now versus where you want to be? Sure.
Well in terms of the comparison of kind of productivity per sales rep across geographies that's difficult to do for a couple of different reasons.
Number one by design in the emerging markets we didn't give every country manager the 14 000 SKU playbook and tell them to go sell everything.
So we're being very strategic relative to how we target within those geographies.
And I'm not sure that's a good way to look at the analysis frankly.
But we're pleased with the productivity that's being made there.
We do think there's a lot of room to grow into that investment.
That was really the plan.
And we're pleased with the execution to date.
And the second part of the question? Registrations.
Oh yes the registration pipeline.
I kind of view that as almost like a second R&amp;D funnel.
And it's something we measure and metric every month frankly from the divisions.
So there are literally hundreds of registrations sitting as we speak at various ministries of health around the world.
There's even more than that sitting within our geographic business centers waiting to be filed being prepared to be filed with the ministers of health.
And even beyond that in the sourcing divisions there's more than that hundreds that are being prepared to submit to our business centers that in turn gets submitted to the ministers of health around the world.
So we're pleased with the pipeline and the flow that we've got in the regulatory side of things at the moment in those markets.
Next we'll go to the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of items first just to clean up on the guidance.
So Chris in the 2015 guidance what are you assuming for share repurchases? We're assuming sort of an ordinary course number Mike.
We'd certainly look to offset dilution from benefit plans as well as a little bit of an incremental reduction in the share count.
We don't want to commit to a specific number because again the range of opportunities we might face on the M&amp;A front could force us into a little bit of a different place.
But we would expect to continue to be able to move the share count lower to a certain degree.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The 4% to 5% organic growth guidance kind of x the Gore noise feels like it should be a little bit better than that this quarter or think about the last few quarters the kind of underlying business pre-Lutonix has been moving from what was 3% to moving closer to 4% you have your first quarter of Lutonix out there and Lutonix just adds over 200 basis points to the growth this quarter.
So it feels like you're being a little bit conservative both on the base business as well as Lutonix.
Like in the Oncology guidance Oncology was up 7% constant currency in 2014 and you're guiding with 3% to 6%.
So could you just spend a minute on the 4% to 5% and why that doesn't -- it feels conservative.
Why is that not conservative? Yes Mike.
We'll tag team this.
I think first of all -- I don't know if you said Urology or Oncology? Research Division</strong> No Oncology.
Oncology was up 7% in '14.
You're guiding to 3% to 6%.
Yes.
I think with respect to ports for example we have a number of large contracts and there's certainly some timing associated with large multiyear contracts that could from a pricing standpoint provide a headwind in certain categories.
I think bigger picture certainly we expect a very competitive dynamic with respect to DCBs over the course of 2015.
We'll see how that plays out.
We certainly have ambitions to do very well but we also want to make sure that we're maintaining the right level of caution.
I think Europe where we had a very strong 2014 we're somewhat cautious just given some of the macro challenges and headwinds that the continent is facing as well.
And as Tim said there's a lot of uncertainty surrounding us and the sector overall including as it relates to the health care in the U.S.
and as the Affordable Care Act continues to remain under some uncertainty longer term.
So or as we said we're certainly going to try to do better and if we get some tailwind we can.
But we believe 4% to 5% as we exited '14 is absolutely the right place for us to be.
Research Division</strong> And are there any other headwinds that you didn't mention that we should know about? Nothing major.
Next we'll go to the line of Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
One first for Chris.
In the 4% to 5% can you just give us a sense as to the year-over-year change that goes into that 4% to 5% from just the Gore royalty and Lutonix revenues? Yes I think with -- we tried to capture the range of scenarios we see with respect to Gore in the constant currency number of 3% to 5%.
So there are some scenarios there Bob.
They don't move the needle much on the high end than they do tick it down a bit on the low end.
So again we believe we're capturing what is likely within the 3% to 5% as it relates to Gore.
And we're certainly not going to give specific expectation around Lutonix as we look at '15.
We're going to continue to work like heck to help develop the market and penetrate the market.
But I assume you can respect from a competitive standpoint we're not going to be more specific than that at this point.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
But I think I gathered from Tim's comments that maybe in the fourth quarter you did high teens revenue for Lutonix? Yes I think you guys will be able to do the math to get to a number that's in that range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for John on the launch a couple of things.
I'd love just to kind of get your views on what you're seeing as you pioneer this new therapy.
So a couple of quick things.
One what's the progress on the add-on payment? When do you expect that? Do you have any evolved views on market size and what will happen to the stent market as a result of drug-coated balloons and what you're seeing in the early launch? Just would love to get some thoughts now that you're in the marketplace.
Let me just give some general perspectives on the launch itself.
I think first of all our team did an excellent job preparing for this launch literally over the last year in great detail.
And I'd evidence that by the comments that we made where we had approval on a Friday we were shipping that Friday and our first case was done on Saturday.
And I think that the knowledge base of physicians in the United States in anticipation of the technology was significant.
And I think that our team has done an excellent job helping to continue educate physicians since the October launch.
We have 2 thresholds for payment reimbursement changes potentially in the second quarter and fourth quarter one for inpatient and one for outpatient.
All of our submissions are in the CMS at this point in time.
And we'll see what develops there.
We have no reason to believe that they're not looking at this very favorably at this point in time.
In terms of market size the -- we had always said that the European market was about $80 million.
That's not changed substantially.
And we could all take a -- have a pool on what the United States will end up at at the end of 2015.
We're certainly working hard to make it as large as we possibly can.
But I think that will be a wildcard and we'll see how the whole market develops now that a competitor is approved as well.
Research Division</strong> And then on stents are those being affected just generally? In the early reviews that we've done we have not seen that at this point in time although I would imagine that downstream the total stent market may be affected slightly.
But we have not seen anything at this point in time.
But I think the good news is that our market basket so to speak of products offered into the vascular surgeons interventional cardiologists obviously went up substantially.
So our presence went up substantially and we staffed it accordingly.
And next we'll go to the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
First for Chris.
Chris there's a pathway within guidance at least in our view to get sort of the mid-25s in terms of operating margin noting [ph] your specific targets.
But if I think about just putting that in context over the last several years that sort of puts you halfway between sort of your peak margins before the reinvestment and then the trough margins around 22 obviously during the reinvestment.
You're sort of halfway through the trough and the peak.
Can you kind of give us a sense of the amount of time it will take to get back to that peak? Yes.
I think what we've essentially committed to with the guidance today is 50 to 100 basis points of operating margin improvement in 2015.
And that's with this unfortunate currency headwind that's nicking GPs by 50 basis points.
And so when you think about the dilution associated with the portfolio moves we made in 2015 which cost us about 200 basis points I think we're well on our way to getting back to those mid-27% level.
And the objective as we look at the model is to drive 50 to 100 basis points of operating margin improvement annually.
So we're making a nice downpayment on returning to those levels in '15.
That will be the objective again in '16 and the objective for several years.
So we feel good about the trajectory.
Again the portfolio moves that just lowered the jumping off point we believe were absolutely the right things to do for the company.
And again if you adjust for those we'd actually be -- and without the currency headwind we'd be right in spitting distance of those margins in '15.
So we feel good about that.
A lot of work to get those improvements year after year.
But that's the commitment.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
And maybe just a quick detail question on the product side for John.
John there's a lot of strength in PICCs this quarter.
We've seen actually several quarters this year where PICC strength was significant.
This particular quarter ultrasound was a little weak.
Was there anything specific there that we should be thinking about as we head into 2015? I wouldn't say ultrasound was weak this quarter.
We had a pretty good solid quarter in ultrasound.
And that varies from time to time based on product launches and things like that.
But I would say that the reality is we had a very strong quarter across the board.
Every product line showed significant strength on Oncology around the world.
And in the United States we're delighted with the performance we had in Oncology in the quarter.
Yes.
And we've got a pretty good pipeline going into 2015 with our Site-Rite 8 [ph] planned for launch around mid-year as another addition into that pipeline.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I just stick one more in? Actually maybe for Tim or for John.
I guess what's really interesting is in the period where Bard was decelerating there was this commentary that utilization was one of the factors.
And what's really fascinating is on the acceleration your underlying growth this quarter was 4.5% puts you well above peers' underlying growth rate.
And you're not doing it with contribution from Foley's and some of those key utilization-sensitive markets.
So it looks like frankly it's just good old-fashioned Bard and it's not market driven.
So market obviously is upside.
So Tim as you sort of think about the underlying business performance where do you think the 2 or 3 areas that you feel most confident in the last 2 years have driven that underlying performance given it doesn't appear to come from market at all? Yes.
Well as we said if you want to grow faster you've got to invest in faster-growing segments and that's frankly what we've been doing.
Clearly the underlying market growth rates in the emerging markets are faster than the total average probably closer to a double-digit kind of growth rate underlying market growth rates.
The acquisitions that we've made over the last several years were all thought of as platforms here for us to invest in because those were in faster-growing segments.
And then the R&amp;D investments that we've made across the board have also been in faster-growing segments.
So as we execute and those things start to pay off and come to fruition the plan called for the growth rates to be higher and that's what you're seeing.
So it's really not any more complex than that frankly.
We have a question from Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry if I missed this but did you give a growth rate for Lutonix outside the United States? And are you still seeing good growth on the heels of all the data from a market perspective? Yes we did we saw excellent growth outside of the United States.
Research Division</strong> Any way to quantify? Other than excellent? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I think we were delighted where we were at the end of the quarter both in the United States and outside of the United States.
We continue to take share.
Right.
I think that was the point.
We continue to take share every quarter x U.S.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess bigger picture I guess Tim.
I guess how are you thinking just about M&amp;A in terms of the size of a company? Or would you be willing to step out and do something a little bit larger? Yes.
Nothing has changed in terms of our perspective on that.
As we've said we've never shied away from doing a big deal.
But we haven't seen one that's been so compelling that hits all the filters that we have set forth for all of our acquisitions.
Frankly size isn't something we even start with.
That probably comes into play in the third or fourth round of questions.
So we start strategically.
We look at it as a platform and is the growth sustainable and is it a market leadership or does it help the market leadership positions that we have in the current portfolio.
And we answer all of those first.
So would we be willing to do it? Sure.
But it would have to be so compelling that we were convinced that it was the right thing to do for the long-term growth of the company.
And frankly we don't even think about size when we look at deals.
Research Division</strong> And then for Chris just in terms of the gross margin guidance that you provided mix favorable by 20 to 40 basis points.
I would have thought that would have been maybe a little bit better just with Lutonix coming in this year and also strong growth across the BioSurgery business which I thought was a little bit higher as well.
Can you maybe just speak to us what are the I guess puts and takes from a mix perspective? Yes.
I think there are other areas that are going to be -- continue to be important contributors but are not -- are lower margin.
And I think we're working on improving the margins from the Rochester portfolio.
That's going to take some time.
We're not there yet.
That's still another year to 2 out.
Those products are growing nicely.
And so that's actually something that's hurting us in this intervening period.
And again hopefully as we get out 12 or 24 months from now that will be a contributor.
But I think 20 to 40 is a very nice number.
And if that -- as we constructed the portfolio we think it's something that's sustainable.
We actually feel pretty good about that.
Certainly we'd like to see the number higher.
But as we look at 2015 and the puts and takes that's how we see it.
Research Division</strong> And just to go back to Lutonix that number that you quoted or the contribution was there any stacking or are you on a consignment basis? We're -- I mean there are certainly some initial stocking orders.
We've also though seen very significant levels of reorder as well which we're tracking closely.
So it's impossible to say perfectly.
But there's a healthy portion of customers that have reordered more than once already.
And that's why -- listen it's going to take a little bit of time for this to settle out.
But to John's point we feel great about the launch and certainly great about the initial demand.
Next we'll go to the line of David Roman Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just start with the emerging markets which clearly has been a very successful relatively fast return for you guys.
Could you maybe just talk through kind of where you are in the -- just in the evolution of that strategy and ultimately where you can foresee that business going in terms of mix in the overall company? Sure.
David the -- as Tim said earlier we are -- we've invested ahead of the growth potential within those markets.
We're delighted with how well we've done in China since we embarked down this journey.
We think we have an awful lot of runway yet ahead of us in China in many different product lines especially new products that we have not yet launched in that specific geography.
Emerging markets in -- within Europe we're delighted with our uptick there across both Europe and Russia.
And I'd say that we are anticipating the investments that we've made in Latin America yet to generate the results that we're expecting.
So I think that '15 and '16 will be a particularly important year for us in the Latin American marketplace.
We like the traction that we're getting around the world in the other markets that we've invested in.
And I think that you'll continue to see this be a significant contributor to Bard's growth in the years to come.
We don't have an upward limit in terms of this.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then in one of the prior questions you alluded to Lutonix having the potential to give you a better foothold with the interventional cardiologists and potentially the vascular surgeon.
To what extent over time can that become a potential leverage point? And do you have sufficient products in your bag really to use that call point potentially more efficiently? And how much of a focus is that? It's certainly an opportunity for us to use that call point more efficiency -- efficiently I think especially as we become a bigger part of those operating suites with DCB and the other products that can be utilized within this suite.
I'd say that if you look at it long term though that's only one aspect of our DCB strategy.
You see the other indications that John talked about.
I mean it gives us a runway of new platforms for the next 5 years or so that we think will be very significant and we'll have an opportunity to build large markets over the years.
Below the knee is an obvious example as are the other indications that John talked about.
So I'd say this is as much about being a larger part of the operating suites as well as being able to take this significant technology and move it to other indications.
Next we'll go to the line of David Turkaly JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> Tim just quickly just a follow-up I guess maybe to wrap up this M&amp;A lines.
Your competitor mentioned that they thought the market was getting a little more competitive or it's harder to find things.
Would you agree with that? Are you finding -- are you being presented with still interesting technologies? Or is the overall M&amp;A environment more competitive today? Yes.
We're finding things.
In fact I just recently internally looked at a kind of scattergram of technologies and companies we've looked at.
And it's as full as I've ever seen.
So we're pleased with that.
I think you worry a little bit down the road about the way venture capital money has shifted over the last several years within the sector.
We haven't bumped into any troughs in the market flow because of that yet but who knows down the road whether that happens.
So -- and the other part of that is we're more actively -- as these emerging markets and other geographies grow our expectation is there may be more opportunities in those sectors to look there.
So we put more resource into that as well.
So now we weren't pleased with our execution in 2014 but it wasn't because of a slowdown in the deal flow.
Research Division</strong> And would you say that it also was not because of evaluations or your evaluation sensitivity? I don't think so.
I mean there are some things that frankly like anything else in life when you go to buy something it's a negotiation.
You can look at somebody and say "You're crazy we're not paying that".
And that happens but that's not new.
That happened 5 years ago and 3 years ago and that's the way life is right? So I don't think we -- we certainly haven't changed our evaluation profile that we look at nor we do see any reason to do that.
So that doesn't concern me at all relative to deal flow either.
Next we'll go to Matthew Taylor Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask one about I guess your philosophy behind the Gore guidance because if we take your top line guidance you're obviously forecasting some kind of decline.
Is that just general uncertainty? Or is there something that you're expecting that will cause it to decline? No I think Matt it's just trying to be prudent about the range of scenarios that could happen.
Again we don't think there's a level of upside that again that moves the guidance which is why it's still at 5% rounded on the high end.
It certainly could continue at the current level or as we've always said it could decline.
It's absolutely out of our control.
And as we have said and we'll repeat again now we don't have any information that leads us to believe that it will decline.
But we wait and on a quarterly basis understand what sales were and what the royalties were.
So we're trying to be prudent and make commitments to you guys that we can deliver on within a range of scenarios.
And certainly as we think about potential upside we're giving you bottom line commitments that we're committed to delivering.
We'd certainly like the ability to reinvest any upside back into the business while still delivering bottom line commitments.
So we're trying to take in what we think are the likely scenarios and then make commitments that we're going to hit within those scenarios.
Research Division</strong> And this is a kind of a probability weighted forecast for you in terms of what could happen? Yes that's a good way to think about it.
Operator we are well past an hour now.
We're going to take 3 more and we apologize to the rest of the people in queue.
But obviously you can call us and we can catch up after.
But we'll take 3 more here on the call operator.
Joanne Wuensch BMO Capital.
I think a lot of us are focused on what are you going to buy next.
But can we shift the topic a little bit to what you might divest next? How do you...
Sure.
So yes let me deal with that.
So it's always easier to divest a business than it is to divest product lines.
With 14 000 plus SKUs at any point in time we've got a number -- a large number of SKUs that are actually declining that frankly if we had our druthers we'd get rid of sell whatever.
They are needed in the marketplace by patients and clinicians which is why we continue to manufacture those and provide those.
But they're also a time distraction to do that kind of thing.
So we'd rather have our management's efforts and workforce focus on growth as opposed to divesting singular product lines.
And there's really not a business as such that we have in total outside of what we did with electric physiology that would be nicely packaged for a divestiture.
So no current plans at the moment for anything there.
That's helpful.
And then the other thing which I've always liked about your catheter business is that it sort of becomes the precursor of volume trends.
And yet you're not really saying that you're seeing the pickup in volumes.
Do you have an idea why you're not experiencing it while others are sort of starting to talk about it already? Well when you look at the catheter business I think it's an interesting aspect of it.
One is that hospitals have tried to reduce catheterization because of their need to reduce urinary tract infections or hospital-acquired infections.
That's one aspect of it.
The other aspect is oftentimes on outpatient surgery a patient will not be catheterized also.
So you'll see the trend being very very close on inpatient surgeries but it won't capture demand from outpatient surgeries.
I think that's -- there's a couple of the aspects of Foley catheterization that are nuanced in this case.
I appreciate that clarification.
But do you have an idea why you're not starting to see that kind of pickup that others are talking about? I don't think we're seeing an inpatient surgery.
We don't see inpatient surgeries increasing.
Next we'll go to Richard Newitter Leerink.
Research Division</strong> This is Ravi Misra in for Rich Newitter.
I have 2 on Lutonix.
One maybe regarding the other indications that you're exploring.
I was wondering if you were willing to put any aspirational timelines on some of those approvals? And then two I think last fall we were discussing on these calls the publication that you guys were searching to put the Lutonix data in.
An update on that would be appreciated.
Sure.
So let me just jump on the approvals side.
We've talked about starting the AV access study.
So enrollment that's going to be -- if we started mid this year which is the plan.
We expect that to enroll relatively quickly.
But with the timing of that that's probably sort of 2018 time frame for AV.
Now below the knee enrollment has been a little slower.
We had hoped for a sort of 2017 approval.
We think that's still possible probably later in the year just based on the way that enrollment is going right now.
And the in-stent restenosis indication there's another one that we -- I want to hold back a little bit on that.
We'd talked a little bit about a 2017 -- late 2017 kind of time frame in the past.
But we're trying to see where we can get information and more data that could give us other opportunities.
So I don't want to commit to anything at this point.
But certainly there aways out for U.S.
indications.
Now as far as the publication goes I can tell you no one is more frustrated at the timing than I am.
But this is clearly something that's not within our control.
As we understand it the author's investigators have the manuscript under review with the journal.
It's not within our control as much as I'd like it to be.
And we continue to believe that it's important to get it published.
So as soon as we know something and we have an opportunity to let you know we will.
The last question will come from Mike Matson Needham &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wondering with the Lutonix product obviously you had good sales.
But is reimbursement an issue at all? And with regard to the add-on payment I mean I think that's for inpatient.
So how many of these are being done inpatient versus outpatient? Is there any potential to get some type of pass-through or something for the outpatient setting that would increase reimbursement as well? So let me just jump in on reimbursement.
First off I think we're trying to track inpatient versus outpatient use.
We don't have great visibility to that frankly.
But we believe that this is primarily outpatient use which is typical for SFA popliteal kind of procedures.
So we think that's probably sort of in the 60% range or so.
On reimbursement we think it is an issue.
There are certainly certain value-conscious buyers that would be holding off until they hear more about reimbursement.
Obviously we're getting pickup in spite of that at this stage.
But there are as John mentioned earlier 2 paths for reimbursement.
There's the outpatient reimbursement piece which CMS there's really no official time line.
They can work within whatever they want.
We think an April time frame is reasonable.
Again CMS is not obligated to work within that time frame.
But typically sort of a couple of cycles of review is common.
And we're in that time period from when we submitted our documentation to CMS last fall.
Now as far as the inpatient piece goes I just saw today actually on the CMS website the agenda for a meeting next week a town hall meeting where drug-coated balloons will be reviewed.
And I think that's the last step is my understanding at least the last public step in the review process for the inpatient piece.
But remember inpatient only receives the approval or changes one time a year which is typically the October time frame.
So John alluded to a Q4 inpatient time period which is what we think would be sort of the reasonable customary time frame.
But again CMS is not obligated to work within any of that.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just in your surgical business can give us an update on the natural tissue products? It seems like the market sort of had moved away from those and I guess where your antibiotic coated product would fit in.
Sure.
I think that entire market is under some significant pressure I mean primarily based around price.
The ASPs of some of those grafts are very very substantial.
And I think that hospitals and clinicians are being very prudent about the use of natural tissue products and really trying to focus those only when they're absolutely necessary.
The product that we recently launched Xen AB is the first of its kind.
It's the first product or graft that is antibiotic coated.
We think that has significant opportunity to be utilized in those indications where patients may be compromised.
We -- the excitement in the marketplace is substantial.
Our launch was significant.
And we're delighted as well as where we are in that initial launch in late December.
Okay.
Moderator thank you very much for all of your assistance.
Let me also thank everybody for joining us today.
And I'd like to also take this opportunity to thank Bard employees around the world for a very solid year of execution.
Looking forward to an even better one this year.
And I also thank them for their dedication and commitment.
And we'll talk to you after the first quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the C.R.
Bard Inc.
First Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bards website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Christopher Holland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainty.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information and the information under the caption Risk Factors each in Bards 2014 10-K including disclosure of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance for the company and its individual product franchises.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings release on the company's website at www.cr.com - Im sorry crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of April 23 2015 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information.
Unless otherwise noted all comparisons are to the prior year periods.
At this time I will turn the call over to Mr.
Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much.
Id like to welcome everybody to Bard's first quarter 2015 earnings call and thank all of you for taking the time to join us today.
Wed expect the presentation portion of the call to last about 25 minutes and we're going to try to keep the total call to about an hour or less.
The discussion today will go as follows.
I'll begin with an overview of the results for the first quarter.
John Weiland our President and COO will review first quarter product line revenue.
John DeFord our Senior VP of Science Technology and Clinical Affairs will give you an update on our product development pipeline.
Afterwards Chris Holland our Senior VP and CFO will cover the first quarter income statement and balance sheet as well as our expectations for Q2.
And finally we'll close with Q&amp;A.
First quarter 2015 net sales totaled $819.7 million.
That's up 3% over Q1 last year on as-reported basis and up 5% on a constant currency basis.
The currency impact for the quarter versus last year was unfavorable by about 260 basis points.
The quarterly royalty payment from Gore was $38.4 million which represented slower growth than our product portfolio.
So our organic revenue growth this quarter was about 5.3% which was better than our guidance.
Net income for the first quarter was $139.8 million and diluted earnings per share were $1.82.
That's down 6% and 2% respectively excluding certain items that affected the comparability of results between periods which Chris will cover later.
First quarter 2015 net income was $142.4 million up 6% and diluted adjusted earnings per share which exclude amortization were $2.10 that's up 10%.This was also above our expectations despite the additional headwind from currency and represents a good start to what's an important year of execution for us.
Looking at revenue growth geographically compared to the first quarter of last year Q1 net sales in the U.S.
grew 4% compared to a year-ago.
On a constant currency basis in Europe we were up 1% Japan was up 5% and our other international businesses were up 18%.
We saw strong sales growth across all of our emerging market geographies in the first quarter as our investments over the last couple of years have strengthened our position in these faster growing markets.
As a percentage of total sales in the first quarter emerging markets represented between 8% and 9% of sales compared to just 7% a year-ago.
And while it's still a small percentage of the portfolio in some of our major product lines the actual dollar growth we saw in emerging markets exceeded the dollar growth for the same products in the U.S.
this quarter.
As you know emerging markets is just one of the opportunities we've highlighted as a key long-term revenue growth driver for us.
In fact you'll hear as John Weiland takes you through the sales results that each of the growth drivers we've highlighted as part of our strategic investment plan performed well quarter.
We remain focused on the execution of that plan and providing the expected returns of those investments in 2015 and beyond.
Chris will provide the detailed update to our guidance a bit later in the call but Im pleased to tell you that our strong start to the year and our confidence in our ability to execute on the things we can control we believe we can manage the challenging foreign exchange environment so far and maintain our original financial guidance for 2015.
So with that summary let me now turn you over to John Weiland for review of our product line revenue.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start let me point out that I'll be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior-year period on a constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
So let's begin with vascular.
Total net sales were $231.9 million up 6% over last year on a reported basis and up 10% on a constant currency basis.
U.S.
vascular sales were up 8% in Q1 and international sales were up 11%.
Sales in our surgical graft category were down 4% this quarter within the range of recent experience.
Our endovascular business was up 10% in the first quarter and it was up 12% excluding the Gore royalty.
Our biopsy products had a strong quarter up 9% driven by good growth internationally especially in emerging markets.
Our peripheral PTA line increased 32% in the first quarter with sales of our Lutonix DCB exceeding our expectations.
We saw a good acceleration in the daily usage of the device after some large initial stocking orders in the fourth quarter.
In Q1 we worked with Boston Scientific to train their reps in the product and in Q2 received our first order from them.
As you probably saw hospital outpatient procedures are now eligible for reimbursement through CMS as of the beginning of the second quarter an important milestone for the category.
Our Vena Cava Filter line grew 6% in Q1.
Our stent business declined 3% in Q1 compared to the prior-year and we continue to expect significant price pressure in this category.
Now let's move to urology.
Total net sales were $205.6 million up 2% versus the first quarter of last year on a reported basis and up 5% on a constant currency basis.
The United States business was up 4% and internationally we grew 6%.
We saw double-digit growth in our targeted temperature management products again this quarter and we remain encouraged by the long-term opportunity here.
Our basic drainage business was up 4% in Q1 and up 2% in the United States.
Within that category our I.C.
Foley business was up 1% globally and down 2% in the United States.
Our continence business was up 7% in Q1 driven by double-digit growth in our DigniCare and male external catheter sales.
Our women's health product lines continued to decline but now make up less than 20% of the continence category and less than 1.5% of Bard's total sales.
Sales in urological specialties were down 1% in the first quarter with our Brachytherapy business down 4%.
And finally stand-alone sales of our StatLock catheter stabilization line increased 5% in Q1.
Next is oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $224.6 million an increase of 3% over Q1 last year on a reported basis and up 5% on a constant currency basis.
Geographically net sales in the United States were up 1% and international sales were up 15%.
Our port business was down 3% over Q1 of last year.
We forecasted significant United States pricing pressure here related to GPO contracts signed in 2014 which drove the decline as units were essentially flat with prior year.
Our PICC revenues were up 9% globally with good growth in the United States and even better growth internationally.
And to close out the category our vascular access ultrasound product line grew 12% this quarter and our dialysis catheter product line was up 8%.
So then let's finish with surgical specialties.
Total net sales in this category were $135.9 million up 1% on a reported basis and up 3% on a constant currency basis.
U.S.
sales were up 5% and international sales were down 4% in the quarter.
Most of that international decline was driven by our performance irrigation business which was down 34% globally due to the discontinuation of certain products in this category which now represents less than 1% of total Bard sales.
Our soft tissue business - soft tissue repair business grew 5% this quarter.
Within soft tissue our synthetic hernia business grew 8% in Q1.
In biologics we are very pleased with the first full quarter of sales from our XenMatrix AB product which is a porcine graft with an antibiotic coating.
Thanks to the contribution from this new first of its kind device our total biologic category was flat in Q1 reversing the trend of double-digit declines.
We have the broadest portfolio in hernia repair across all types of products from a wide range of synthetics to natural tissue and now antibiotic coated natural tissue.
We're working with physicians to identify the right products for the right patient and provide a wide range of options for them.
Our hernia fixation line declined 9% this quarter - 7% this quarter within the range of recent experience.
As you'll hear from John DeFord we have some new products in our pipeline that we believe will help us get back to growth in this category.
We are well past the anniversaries of our acquisitions of BioSurgery and that business grew double-digits again this quarter.
We remain bullish on the long-term opportunity here.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to John DeFord.
Thanks John and good afternoon everyone.
We started off 2015 with several product launches and as you'll hear in my update our pipeline and plans show a very active 2015 and beyond.
I'll start with drug-coated balloons where were making good progress on additional sizes and indications worldwide.
We filed the PMA supplement for additional balloon sizes for use in the SFA and popliteal and anticipate launch in the back half of this year.
In our clinical activities we've completed initial follow-up in our Levant 2 Japan study.
Were in the data analysis phase and we expect to submit in the back half of the year for approval.
Enrolment continues in our below-the-knee and in-stent restenosis IDE studies and we recently submitted are IDE for our AV access study with enrolment anticipated to start in Q3.
We are also working towards the start of our Levant China study and expect to begin enrolment in the back half of the year.
The Levant 2 study design was described in detail in a recent publication authored by Michael Jaff and several investigators in the American Heart Journal.
We also expect 24-month Levant 2 results to the presented at SVS in June.
Also in vascular the LifeStream Balloon Expandable Covered Stent clinical study is recruiting quickly and we anticipate completing enrolment later this year.
This IDE evaluates the technology for the treatment of iliac artery disease.
In other stent graft news our next generation device for use in AV access is nearing completion of development and we anticipate launching in Europe in Q4.
This product will require a clinical study for U.S.
approval and we anticipate filing the IDE and initiating a study in the first half of 2016.We have a new Venus stent project that's on a similar development pathway with launch anticipated in Europe in Q4 and an IDE study expected to began around the end of the year.
Next moving to urology.
We've launched our new skyline sub 2 French stone basket family and are working to expand the platform with 2.4 and 3 French versions expected later this year.
Also in endourology we anticipate launching our new Access Sheath System in the back half of the year.
We believe these new products provide the urologist with needed improvements to some of the tools they are currently used in this important interventional space.
In home care we are nearing the launch of a new intermittent self-catheterization product the Magic 3 Touchless slated for release in Q3.
Magic 3 Touchless combines the comfort and insertion benefits of the Magic 3 platform combined with our touchless close system designed to reduce the risk of contamination and infection due to catheter insertion.
We've got a couple of other products in our intermittent catheter family that are slated to launch later this year but I'll hold back the details until we get closer to product release.
Moving to oncology.
We recently received U.S.
regulatory clearance for our freehand stereotaxic system for vascular access named Pinpoint GT.
The Pinpoint GT technology will be offered on the new Site~Rite 8 Ultrasound System slated for launch later in the year.
We believe the combination of Site~Rite Ultrasound Pinpoint GT Needle Guidance and 3CG Diamond Catheter Tip Confirmation in an integration system will provide a complete clinical solution for vascular catheter placements.
In PICCs were on track for a Q3 regulatory submission for our new thrombo-resistant coating.
Upon regulatory clearance we plan to launch a broad line of catheters marketed under the covert PICC trade name.
We expect to follow the covert PICCs with a combined antimicrobial and thrombo-resistant coating planned for launch in the back half of 2016.
In midlines we launched the 22 gauge PowerGlide catheter in Q1 completing our sizes in the PowerGlide product family.
Were also making good progress on our next generation of midline catheters and anticipate our U.S.
regulatory submission in Q4 with a first half 2016 launch.
For the acute hemodialysis patients were expanding upon our market-leading Trialysis catheter family with the anticipated regulatory clearance and launch later this quarter of our new Trialysis Slim.
Trialysis Slim incorporates superior flexibility kink resistance and flow rates in excess of 400 milliliters per minute in a small 12 French triple lumen catheter configuration.
Ill close my portion of the discussion today with surgery.
On our last call we told you about our launch of the first antibiotic coated biologic mesh XenMatrix AB.
As John Weiland told you the product is receiving excellent early feedback and were working hard to expand the size matrix available with the additional launches expected over the course of the next several quarters.
We're also making good progress towards the launch of a new product family that incorporates our proven separate barrier technology with our Phasix bioresorbable mesh family to create the Phasix ST.
Phasix ST is designed for intra-abdominal placement and is on track to launch in Q3.
This new offering supplements XenMatrixs AB - XenMatrix and Phasix to allow us to offer proprietary and differentiated products designed to address the entire spectrum of complex abdominal wall repairs.
Moving onto our BioSurgery product family.
In early Q3 of 2014 we filed our PMA supplement for our Progel sealant seeking expanded use in video-assisted and robot-assisted thoracic surgery.
We received approval from FDA earlier this quarter and I'm pleased to announce the launch is underway ahead of schedule.
Also in January of this year we completed follow-up in our Tridyne vascular sealant pivotal IDE study.
Analysis is complete and the team is working towards PMA submission this quarter.
Following this timeline we anticipate approval and launch in mid-2016.
And finally in mesh fixation we're gearing up for the launch in the next couple of weeks of our first spring-loaded resorbable tack device named OPTIFIX.
OPTIFIX has been designed to employ stored energy for ease and efficiency of tack delivery while reducing tissue trauma thats been associated with some competitive devices.
In past calls I've told you that we have another fixation platform under development but weve not disclosed the details.
Now the time is right and I'm pleased to announce that we anticipate launching our new permanent fixation device named CapSure later this quarter.
CapSure is the result of several years of analysis of the permanent fixation market and was designed to reduce the risk of tissue injury due to exposed sharps and concern over adhesions and reliability while providing the functional requirements of a permanent tack including the ability to penetrate hard tissues such as Coopers ligament.
With these two fixation launches we're excited to move back to playing offense in this highly competitive space.
Thanks for your attention today.
We look forward to updating you on our progress throughout the year.
Now I'll hand our discussion over to Chris.
Thank you John.
Let me start by covering certain items that affect the comparability of our results between periods.
We had a credit in acquisition related items of $9.2 million pre-tax a $3.9 million pre-tax charge for restructuring and productivity initiatives and we recorded expense of $10.3 million primarily related to the judge's order in the women's health litigation that we work up 500 cases simultaneously.
The P&amp;L impact of these items is detailed in the notes to the financial statements and in the reconciliation accompanying our Q1 earnings press release.
Now let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $508.5 million or 62% of sales for Q1.
On an adjusted basis GP was $498.6 million or 60.8% of sales down 60 basis points from the prior-year quarter consistent with our guidance.
FX cost us 30 basis points in GP this quarter and the new amortization from the Q4 2014 Lutonix approval was 40 basis points in Q1.
Price pressure drove 130 basis points on the revenue line in Q1 and about 50 basis points of headwind on GPs consistent with our expectations.
Our cost improvements drove about 40 basis points of benefit to GPs this quarter and mix was favorable by about 20 basis points.
As we look to Q2 we expect gross margin to be similar to the Q2 2014 level despite FX pressure and the incremental amortization.
SG&amp;A expenses were $235.7 million for the quarter or 28.8% of sales.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales was 28.7% a decrease of 90 basis points.
We are on track with our annual guidance of delivering improved P&amp;L leverage for the full-year.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $60.6 million for the first quarter or 7.4% of sales on both a reported and adjusted basis consistent with our guidance.
Interest expense was $11.3 million for the first quarter.
Other income and expense was $16.3 million of expense for the first quarter as-reported and $1.6 million of expense on an adjusted basis.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 24.3% on a reported basis and 24.9% on an adjusted basis the same level as a year-ago.
And again our full-year guidance assumes the renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit but that will not be included in the reported numbers until it is renewed.
Diluted shares for the period were 75.8 million and we purchased 1.2 million shares during the first quarter.
The net result is adjusted EPS of $2.10 which exceeded our expectations for the quarter.
The balance sheet as of March 31 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of approximately $1.03 billion versus $1.01 billion at December 31.
For the quarter accounts receivable days were up 0.7 days and inventory days were up 0.3 days.
Capital expenditures totaled $29 million for the quarter.
On the liability side total debt was $1.6 billion as of March 31 compared to $1.5 billion at the end of December.
Debt to total cap at the end of the first quarter was about 48% and total shareholder investment was $1.7 billion at March 31.
And looking at Q2 we are expecting constant currency sales growth between 4.5% and 5.5% and would expect organic growth to be within the same range.
We are now expecting currency headwinds based on exchange rates of their current levels to reduce reported sales by about 4% for Q2 and the full-year up from about 3% in our original guidance in January.
From an adjusted EPS standpoint excluding items affecting comparability and the amortization of intangibles we see the second quarter in the $2.15 to $2.19 range.
Despite the challenging and volatile FX environment based on exchange rates at their current levels we expect to deliver adjusted EPS between $8.95 and $9.05 for the full-year of 2015.
And with that I'll hand the call back to Tim.
That does conclude the formal part of the presentation.
Let me now turn the call back to the moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A session.
To accommodate the number of investors on the call I would ask that you limit yourself to one question only.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen we will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As Mr.
Ring said due to the large number of investors expected on the call please limit yourself to one question only.
If you have additional questions you may re-enter the queue.
And one moment please for the first question.
Our first question comes from Larry Keusch with Raymond James.
Go ahead please.
Okay.
Thanks.
Good afternoon everyone.
I guess for Tim and perhaps Chris.
One of the consistent investor concerns is the ability to fill the gap when the Gore royalties cease really in 2020.
So I was hoping that you guys might help us think a little bit about how you are thinking about that scenario and what options are available as you sit here today thinking about how to fill the gap? Sure.
Appreciate your long-term perspective.
That is clearly something that were well aware of.
We've known about it for quite a while now.
We have fully in fact frequently discussed this with the board and clearly have put a plan together to invest back in the company to achieve growth at above market level.
As that continues to manifest if you will and exponentially the company gets larger becomes less of an issue that we have to deal with and frankly doesn't really become a deal - an issue for us until almost the end of I think the last quarter of 2019.
So we have plenty of time to deal with it.
We've got clear sight of what that is but as the company gets larger the issue becomes smaller.
The investments are doing very well the ones that we put in place a couple of years ago thats not - that plan doesn't stop it kind of continuous and we would expect to continue to grow beyond that.
Chris something to add to that? Yes I think Larry the only other thing Id add and I think we've talked to investors about this is in addition to the entire objective here being to grow the company in a way that that portion of the income statement becomes smaller and smaller which I think this quarter again shows were having good success in doing we certainly over time will have balance sheet flexibility as well as one other arrow in the quiver to deal with the final ending of the royalty.
But as Tim says that runs through August of 2019 and through a combination of growing the business utilizing the balance sheet certainly we expect to continue to be adding through inorganic means over time as well.
We think it's a problem - if you want to call it problem that would be certainly manageable by the time we approach 2019.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Youre welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mike Weinstein with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon guys.
Im going to apologize upfront because we have a couple of calls going on at the same time.
So I may have missed some of this but just the commentary upfront on Lutonix.
Obviously it's tough to try and read market trends with the stocking that goes on and now a competitor coming in but it looked like the first quarter out of the box which was your fourth quarter you had this really strong quarter and sequentially it steps down a little bit because of the entrance of a competitor and maybe less stocking.
Could you say A is that generally an accurate depiction and B can you give us more of a picture of what's happening underneath all of that? Yes I'll take a top-line shot and then I'll give it to John.
I think what's important to us anyway internally within the management group is that for the first quarter we exceeded what our expectations were for the products.
So were all about long ramp here in growing this market.
And clearly from what we have budgeted we think that for Q1 fourth quarter aside.
So I'll let John give you some more color.
I think that was the most important fact quite frankly Mike.
Secondly I'd add to that is that we see our momentum building not waning.
And in addition we completed our training of Boston Scientific in Q1.
They'll come on board in Q2 in certain areas and quite frankly as Tim said we exceeded our expectations and we really like where we are right now.
Just from an accounting standpoint Chris will you guys get any stocking benefit from supplying Boston Scientific rests the product in second quarter? Yes I think there will be probably a larger than typical order in the first quarter as they get the product broadly into the hands of their reps in our second quarter.
And then again we'll have to see over time how that plays out in Q3 and Q4 of this calendar year.
But again it's not overly material as we look at the total sales of Lutonix overall for the company but it will be slightly higher order out of the box.
Okay.
And then last question and Ill let somebody else jump in here.
But could you just talk about the performance of the urology business? That was probably the one business that was probably the most notable ahead of our expectations.
Can you just talk about relative to your own internal model and what was better-than-expected? Yes I think it's interesting weve talked for awhile now that unfortunately that business growth rate has been masked by some declining categories.
Those declining categories are starting to get relatively immaterial and thats allowing some of the good things going on there to really shine through.
And it was really I think the Rochester business has done very well.
We saw really growth globally in Q1 there.
The targeted temperature management had a really strong quarter again globally and we're trying to bring value to customers in basic drainage in a market that from a unit standpoint is pretty flat.
But by really bringing trays that allow them to provide efficiency and effectiveness in terms of deploying that product around the hospital and getting nurses to be able to insert it in a consistent way we're seeing good growth.
And so I think you're seeing the impact of the SureStep product in Q1 helping to contribute to that.
So you put those things together and it lines up for pretty nice quarter out of the gate.
Great.
Thanks Chris.
Thanks guys.
Sure Mike.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Brooks West with Piper Jaffray.
Go ahead please.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Hi Brooks.
On Lutonix again guys.
Understanding the unwillingness to give us a specific number.
Can you speak to the market? There has been some speculation on the street that maybe your initial thoughts on $100 million market should be expanded.
Can you give us some commentary there? And then second is can you give us some of the dynamics between the U.S.
and international markets on the Lutonix device? So I'll take the first one.
We're essentially almost two quarters little over a quarter and a half out of the box in the U.S.
and the new market.
We referenced the stocking order in the fourth quarter.
So it's difficult to - I wouldn't change what we thought the size of the market was based on what were seeing so far.
I will tell you this.
We like - we track the order rates.
We like the way that's going.
We like the anecdotal feedback that were getting.
Both John and I have been out in the field recently ourselves and continued to feel very optimistic about the anecdotal feedback from the customer base.
So too early to change any macro market size based on a couple of quarters but were very pleased with the progress so far and what were hearing about the product and technology.
And I'd say on the difference in dynamics between the United States and international.
Really international now is only really Europe to speak of although we have some approvals that are coming through and well launched those products as the approvals start is that we continue to take share internationally specifically in Europe.
We'd like the momentum we have there.
The United States speaks for itself.
I think the market as Tim mentioned weve continued focus on that same $100 million in the first full year in the United States.
And I'd say what we are concentrating on is the rollout of the different indications as we finish the clinical trials for the different indications in the United States.
And then geographically as we finish the clinical trials and/or approvals in the major marketplaces becomes a pretty powerful operation having both of those positive items as momentum-builders as you go through the next number of years.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Sure Brooks.
Thank you.
We now have a question from Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Go ahead please.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
Just a couple of really quick ones first on Lutonix.
Last quarter you kind of suggested that how much Lutonix contributed to the growth rate of the company so we could understand what the organic growth rate was of the base business.
And I was wondering if you'd be willing to kind of comment on that here this quarter? Yes Bob it was just a little less than two points of the growth in Q1.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then just real quickly I know it's early but either for Tim or for John your thoughts on how youre competing in the marketplace with Medtronic.
It's really early but are you guys confident that at a minimum this can be 50-50 share? And then lastly I wanted to see if Tim would just comment on the environment were in right now from an M&amp;A perspectives and what you're seeing out there is the pipeline full? Just want to get an update there.
Thank you.
Sure.
Yes we actually don't even internally predict market share goals or objectives.
We just try to get a little bit more every day.
So were pleased with the positioning of the product.
We think as more of the real world data comes into play versus the clinical trial data that was used for the approvals that becomes increasingly meaningful for us and certainly proceed that way and the market I could tell you firsthand from that.
So were pleased with where we are and technologies everything we got it thought it was going to be.
As it relates to the M&amp;A environment we are still extremely active and we were not pleased with the execution last year in terms of getting things done.
It wasn't for lack of effort or emphasis.
Its just kind of the way deal flow happens.
There is lot of things going on right now and I wouldn't be surprised if you start hearing more from us soon about those kind of things but again you got to have two sides to agree and were very active right now.
So we'll let you know as things occur.
Thank you.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Dave Turkaly with JMP securities.
Go ahead please.
Thanks.
Just quickly what kind of diligence if any did Boston Scientific do on Lutonix? And I guess if you could just comment on how sort of the number of reps you guys will have combined will compare to Medtronic? Thanks.
We had to make sure they knew how to spell it and we made sure we trained on that.
Beyond that I think with the publication of the data and the fact that was available in the market outside the United States I think they certainly thought they had an diligence to make whatever decisions they ended up making.
I think Dave when you look at the combined commercial presence between ourselves and sort of the proportion of Boston's reps time that you could expect would be spent detailing Lutonix we're on a pretty even playing field with the new Medtronic Covidien commercial footprint.
So from that standpoint I think we feel like we're in good shape.
Thanks a lot.
Youre welcome.
Thank you.
Then we'll go next to Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Go ahead please.
Glad to hear Boston call spell Lutonix.
Hopefully they can sell it.
Yes I'm pretty sure they got 100 all across the board.
Im not sure what I did firstly on it.
I keep [indiscernible].
Okay.
Anyway thanks for taking the question.
I guess Tim I was wondering if you could just comment more broadly just on like the vascular landscape? I guess more intravascular just with Cardinal's pending acquisition of Cortis and what that may mean just for your business? I know there has been a lot of pressure from the stents.
Just kind of perspectives on or any concerns that you might have as they try to I guess genericise to some degree - some end-markets.
Sure.
Well if I can only - I can't speak for them.
Obviously you're going to have to ask them what their perspectives were.
I can tell you that from our experience in my own personal experience in fact there is a very interesting report that was just issued by one of the major consulting companies about an analysis done on product leadership versus breadth of line which kind of wins out at the end of the day.
We have nothing to do with that analysis but it does point out the fact which is one we concur with market leadership and technology leadership as opposed to breadth of line is where we would rather be.
Let's put it that way.
And I think that clearly you don't get many companies larger than J&amp;J and they decided for whatever the reasons were to sell that business.
So we like product leadership.
We like - even in this environment we think having the best product that clinicians prefer for their patients is important.
And beyond that you have to probably ask them about their decisions there and what they expect to do with that.
So you don't expect any additional pressure just from a pricing standpoint? Dont know.
I guess it's to be seen.
Okay.
And then maybe Chris could you comment on just given the change in FX rate movements? What if any FX from an EPS perspective you are absorbing since you did maintain your EPS guidance? Yes it's relatively - we talked about $0.25 for the full-year.
It's slightly higher than that Kristen.
There was a number of moving parts as you can imagine and certainly there are currencies that have weakened where we've got large expense bases as well.
So it's probably just slightly higher than the $25 million -- $0.25 for the full-year.
And I think a range around where currencies are today I think we can manage through if there is another material step-down well obviously have to reassess that.
But clearly the business and the operations are performing in a way that has allowed us to absorb that slight incremental increase.
Last kind of random one.
Other was down pretty significantly this quarter.
Can you just maybe remind us what's in there and why? Yes sure.
And actually that was when we acquired Rochester there were some distributed products in Europe that came with the acquisition that we essentially discontinued really in April 1st of last year.
So those are about $1.1 million of sales in last year's Q1 in other that we discontinued.
So that's driving the large - most of the decline there in other.
Thank you.
Youre welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question is from David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Go ahead please.
Good afternoon.
Chris just thinking about vascular.
I know you didn't update guidance for the year but given that Lutonix was roughly in line with our number within $1 million the non-Lutonix business obviously did dramatically better.
When I think about your vascular guidance for the year if Lutonix builds momentum as per some of the comments on the call it just appears that the vascular guidance is either conservative or youre certainly going to be at the upper end of the range.
So just wondering if you could talk about non-vascular performance if Lutonix builds or what that means for vascular guidance? And then I had a quick follow-up.
Yes I think we'll take it quarter at a time David.
Certainly from that respect were off to a very good start.
We've got again good ambitions for the rest of the year in vascular.
We saw a good performance to some of the other categories frankly better than we had expected in Q1 including in the filter segment as well.
So we'll take it as we come and we get through Q2 and we'll certainly reassess how we think the full-year looks.
But everybody in each of the businesses certainly is doing they can to get to the top end of the range for the year.
But it's a good start for us.
And also biopsy had a pretty strong Q1 and a lot of that is outside the U.S.
So that's a focus product area for us in emerging market and they had a strong quarter.
Okay just two quick follow-ups.
The number one there was some commentary on the PICC business and GPO positioning.
I mean there has been a lot of jockeying in the PICC market these last couple of years with some of your smaller competitors.
I'm just curious why now why this year and not the prior two years that we saw more significant GPO pricing? And the other follow-up was just on the willfulness suit as it relates to Gore.
Any updated timing on when the proceeds may flow or just the updated legal time from your perspective? Thank you.
I think you meant the port business because we had a very strong PICC business in - PICC results in Q1.
So we did see some pressure in the port business primarily around new GPO agreements that we signed early in 2014 so that this is really the first quarter they are kicking in as a new agreement for us.
So there is some price pressure because of the lower prices in those GPO agreements.
If you look at our units we set our units were just about flat but it's more pricing than anything else there.
Yes.
And we have actual signal that David on the January call we called specifically out port pricing pressure.
Those are long-term contracts.
We obviously thought strategically have made sense for us to sign them and well obviously lap pricing pressure over time.
On willfulness we would expect as we sit here today to receive the funds at some point during Q2 all signs lead to that.
With interest its just under $209 million and they have our bank account information and were anxiously waiting to receive.
But I would expect to be during Q2.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Youre welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matthew Taylor with Barclays.
Go ahead please.
Hi this is actually Yong Lee in for Matt.
Thanks for taking our questions.
The first question I guess in the U.S.
weve been hearing about lot of improvement in terms of volume and utilization not a lot but incremental improvement.
I guess are you seeing that trend as well and can you talk about maybe from European perspective as well? In fact I think that while we've seen certain glimmers of improvement and primarily you saw a little glimmer in Marchs improvement in terms of volumes.
That was probably offset by January and Februarys volumes where there wasn't a substantial improvement in hospitals in United States.
So if you aggregate it all I'd say were optimistic but we have not seen anything extremely tangible and I think Id evidence that by the way we look at our basic business and drainage quite frankly.
In terms of Europe there was a number of reimbursement issues that are going on in Europe.
France is foremost in those.
We didn't have a great Q1 in our European business as you probably saw but were optimistic that those volumes will come back as we go through the course of the year.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And then I guess a quick second question.
Regarding the emerging markets business can you just talk about some of the key geographies that are driving the growth as well as maybe the sustainability of that growth? Yes they are all the ones weve mentioned previously.
So there is the ones in Asia and then the ones in Latin America and then Eastern Europe and the Middle East and they're all doing very well right now.
All right great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Richard Newitter with Leerink Partners.
Go ahead please.
Hi.
This is Ravi in for Rich Newitter.
I have a couple of maybe big picture questions.
First Ill start with - a lot of people talk about what assets you are going to buy.
Im curious to get your thoughts on some of the businesses that you said that are now sort of less than 1% of sales perhaps PI and womens health.
What's the strategic outlook for those segments? Well let me back up and give you a broad answer.
So when you look at the portfolio 14 000 SKUs this isn't new.
This has been - I've been here 23 years.
It's been like since I've been here.
You have 25% or so of the SKUs that are actually declining over time.
So the balancing of the portfolio and where we make the investments and where we look for acquisitions where we expand sales force etcetera etcetera you're constantly going after the higher growth areas probably very similar the way you manage your own investment portfolios.
So we don't get too hung up on movement of one or another.
I will tell you this relative to divestiture decisions it's a lot easier to get rid of a business than it is a product line.
And we'd rather have - having done both we'd much rather have our management teams focused on increased revenue growth opportunities than pruning off product lines.
Yes and the only thing I'd add Ravi is obviously you'd expect and we do run an economic analysis to determine whether or not the value of some of those declining product lines are worth more to us if we resource them appropriately from a cash flow standpoint as opposed to what you might if even anything get through a sale of a product line.
So certainly the things we are keeping rest assured we think thats the right decision even if they are in a declining mode.
Great thanks.
And then maybe one question on hernia.
A lot of - it looks like the OPTIFIX and the CapSure products coming out soon.
I'd like to hear maybe your general view on how many of minimally invasive surgery and potentially robotics can affect the long-term view or the long-term outlook of that business especially if there is more conversion from open to MIS procedures? Sure I'll take the bigger picture.
We're very pleased by the way with the positioning of the entire hernia portfolio.
We've got great breadth of line.
We've got strength now.
The one area we were kind of weakest in my view was the fixation area John DeFord talked about couple of projects that we had alluded to previously but feel pretty good about them now.
So we've got a great - probably if you were to go by category maybe our single strongest portfolio right now across the various vertical groups within that broader category.
As it relates to the robotic thing our view is we provide the products the implants etcetera that would be used with the robotics.
So I don't see dramatically impacting the business.
In fact several of our products to the extent that there are people I think there is more talk than action right now relative to that.
But we know that a couple of our products have become the product of choice to be used in some of those procedures.
With that I'll let John DeFord put some color.
Sure I think just to weigh in I think maybe you were alluding to in robotic surgeries fixation devices arent typically needed because they can suture with the robotic device.
Right.
And so again I think we see that - were well positioned.
We don't see that happening overnight.
And certainly robotic surgery is pretty limited right now.
There are some benefits of course.
You can close the abdominal wound before some of the fixation is required.
You can do a few other things.
But it's pretty limited in the procedures that you can use robotics in today.
So we think we've got a good mix.
As Tim and John had said earlier we think we've got from a mesh or implant perspective a great mix of products that work well with the robotics surgery as well as with laparoscopic and open.
And we also think our fixation products are going to be useful in a number of different repairs that arent necessarily amenable to robotics today.
Thanks.
I appreciate that very detailed response.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question will come from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you for taking the question.
Good afternoon everybody.
I wanted just to start with a follow-up on your M&amp;A commentary Tim.
There is a tremendous amount of deal euphoria in healthcare as obviously everyone has observed but can you maybe just talk to us about how you think about cash EPS accretion versus ROIC? I mean I understand the benefit of a press release that goes out with a 15% accretion number in it but also obviously you're stuck with the asset over time.
So how do you think about really finding value given the M&amp;A environment now? Yes it's an interesting question.
So I think you go - and this isn't a new thing.
Those kinds of properties and models if you will call accretion versus revenue growth if you want to just book in the two have always been there.
We've had our eyes wide open to those especially when you get into larger deals someone is actually got to go find that synergy and execute against that.
And that's always tends to be a little more difficult than people think.
And while you're doing that those are the same management groups that youre expecting to grow the other part of the business that you have.
So really the decision for our management group is where you want your people and your management teams spending their time.
So we have watched what's occurred in the marketplace.
Weve watched our investors that reacted to those deals.
It's kind of interesting.
And we clearly have targets.
We put them into different categories but we clearly are more of the revenue growth mindset at the moment versus the accretive and slower revenue growth mode.
Yes and the only thing Id add David is ROI is very important to us.
So when were evaluating opportunities we're trying to be good stewards of shareholders capital.
And we think the notion of near-term accretion for a transaction that frankly is not a good return for shareholders.
Were going to be very careful as to how we deploy capital and we're going to do it in a way that's not going to only be driven by near-term accretion.
Its got to make sense strategically from a return standpoint and if its accretive that's obviously terrific as well.
But all of those factors are certainly important to us and we're not going to weight short-term accretion over ROI.
Okay.
That's helpful context.
Thank you.
And then maybe just a follow-up on the business and perhaps sort of along the same lines emerging markets obviously remains quite strong for you but still as a percentage of sales it's relatively small compared to the peer group.
And it just seems like it's going to take a while to see that number move in sort of a step function type of way.
And I guess we've seen some others in med-tech go into emerging markets and pay decent premiums for assets there.
I mean is there a strategy - is there a vehicle organically to accelerate the emerging markets adoption where that can get to a mid-teens call it percentage of sales number or is that something that would have to come through external investment? I think that the game plan that we put in place which was investing heavily in building our teams and people around the world and then arming them with the products that come through our R&amp;D pipeline and do that via great training of physicians is that right long-term strategy for us.
We made the investments.
We're seeing the growth in all those segments.
We like the game plan and I think it's one-step at a time for us but we believe that's how you build a meaningful business long-term that has great staying power.
And I think coming back to ROI I think if you look at some of those larger transactions in emerging markets I question what the returns are going to be on those.
And again coming back to the right balance between risk and growth to John's point we think we've got the right strategy.
We certainly are looking for targets that make it through our filters and we spent a lot of time looking.
And again our bar is reasonable but relatively high and we clearly have not found targets that we think makes sense for us.
In the meantime we're doing a terrific job growing the business organically.
Okay great.
Thanks so much.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Josh Jennings with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Hi good evening.
Thanks a lot for taking the questions.
Chris just one for you.
I was hoping you could help us think about longer term operating margin expansion opportunities and getting back to the levels that you had - Bard had performed at prior to 2013.
Looks like youre doing a great job navigating the reserve in the FX this year and seeing some operating margin expansion to get to the midpoint of EPS range but how should we think about operating margins in the out-years? Yes I think this year is going to be a nice down payment I think Josh on returning to those levels.
Certainly as we talked about some of the portfolio moves we made in 2013 were dilutive in terms of exiting the EP business and adding Rochester in particular.
Those were the right moves for the company no question.
And were really pleased with the portfolio.
Having said that it did set us back a bit.
'15 will be a nice down-payment.
Every year our commitment is to drive operating leverage and operating improvement.
That's what the management team is tasked and committed to do.
And I won't give you a point in time where we'll get back to that level.
But I think we're well on our way and everything we've done in constructing the portfolio in terms of adding higher margin products.
To Johns point we've got infrastructures built in emerging markets that are going to be leverageable for a number of years to come.
We feel good about the ability for us to continue to move higher year after year.
And just one follow-up.
Thanks a lot for that Chris and one follow-up for John DeFord and maybe Tim can pitch in on just the vascular business now being leader in stents as well as drug-coated balloons.
Is there anything else in the portfolio that you need to fill your bag with and maybe a specific commentary on your outlook for the combo of atherectomy and drug-coated balloons and the need for Bard to have an atherectomy technology? Thanks a lot gentlemen.
Sure.
We constantly look at what we think are the right combinations of products within all of our spaces vascular certainly.
We've always had a close eye on atherectomy in particular.
Were always a little nervous about the reimbursement in that space.
That said it seems to continue to hold much to my surprise but something that we'll be continuing to keep a close eye on.
We think the potential combination with DCB could be interesting.
Were already seeing and running some studies around using our technology with stents using our technology in other chronic cases.
And so we'll continue to keep that as something to evaluate.
And I would just add.
I think a lot of the opportunity we have we already own.
So the ability to get further indications for below-the-knee we think that's really interesting being able to go after smaller vessels with DCB.
The whole AV access area we think is a huge opportunity both relative to stent grafts and the drug-coated technology and/or combinations to those.
So we think there is a lot of runway left both in our internal revenue and expanding the markets just what the platforms that we have today.
Yes.
And we just mentioned today a couple new products that we expect to be launching in Europe by the end of the year entering the Venus market with a Venus stent technology and also our AV Access the next generation stent graft kind of products.
So we think those are organic ways to continue to expand the pipeline as well.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
And it does conclude our Q&amp;A session.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Bards management for closing or additional comments.
Thank you.
Thanks everybody for staying with us.
Sorry we went over a little bit over the hour.
I'd like to take this opportunity to thank Bard employees around the world for a very strong start for the year and look forward to updating you on our progress at the end of the next quarter.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the C.
R.
Bard Inc.
Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Christopher S.
Holland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management team will discuss some forward-looking statements the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information in Bard's March 31 2015 Form 10-Q and the information under the caption Risk Factors and Bard's 2014 10-K including disclosure of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance of the company and its individual product franchises.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings press release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of July 23 2015 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information unless otherwise noted.
All comparisons are to the prior-year period.
At this time I will turn the call over to Mr.
Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I'd like to welcome all of you to Bard's second quarter 2015 earnings call and thank all of you for taking the time to join us today.
We would expect the presentation portion of the call to last about 25 minutes and the total call will last about an hour.
The agenda today will go as follows.
I'll begin with an overview of the results for the second quarter.
John Weiland our President and Chief Operating Officer will review second quarter product line revenue.
John DeFord our Senior Vice President of Science Technology and Clinic Affairs will give you a brief update on our product pipeline and then Chris Holland our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will review the second quarter income statement and the balance sheet as well as our expectations for the third quarter and the remainder of the year.
And then finally we'll close with Q&amp;A.
Second quarter 2015 net sales totaled $859.8 million that's up 4% over Q2 of last year on an as-reported basis and up 8% on a constant currency basis.
Currency impact for the quarter was unfavorable by about 380 basis points.
The royalty payment we received from Gore in the quarter was approximately $36.9 million.
That's down 2% from a year ago.
We believe the decline was due to FX headwinds but we don't receive that level of detail from them.
Our organic revenue growth was approximately 8.2% this quarter which exceeded our expectations.
That does include a little more than 250 basis points of benefit from drug-coated balloon sales in the U.S.
alone.
Net loss for the second quarter of 2015 was $54.7 million and diluted loss per share was $0.74 which included a net charge for product liability.
Excluding this and other items that affected the comparability of results between periods which Chris will cover later adjusted second quarter 2015 net income and diluted earnings per share were $154.3 million and $2.27.
That's up 8% and 10% respectively.
These adjusted results exceeded the guidance we provided for the quarter and the first half of the year has come in a little bit better than we projected.
Looking at the revenue growth geographically compared to the second quarter of 2014 net sales in the U.S.
increased 7% on a constant currency basis Europe grew 5% Japan was up 2% and our other international businesses grew 20%.
We continue to be very pleased with the acceleration we're seeing in emerging markets which represented 10% of our total sales in the second quarter with all of our major geographic categories contributing strong double-digit growth.
We're seeing good returns from our increased investments over the last couple of years.
As we told you a key objective of our investment plan was to accelerate the growth rate of the company.
In Q2 every business performed either at the top or above our stated guidance range for each category.
And each of the major growth drivers that we've been highlighting mainly emerging markets drug-coated balloons biosurgery homecare and targeted temperature management all grew in the healthy double-digits this quarter.
We continue to believe that executing our investment plan will allow us to provide a sustainable above-market revenue growth rate for the overall portfolio in the mid to high single digits with attractive returns for shareholders.
On the business development front in early July we acquired Vascular Pathways and its technology to enhance our wire-assisted vascular access devices for approximately $90 million plus milestones.
While the existing revenue is very small we believe this strengthens our future pipeline and revenue opportunity long term in a very large and important market for us.
With that let me turn you over to John Weiland for a review of our product line revenue.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start let me point out that I will be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to prior-year period on a constant currency basis unless noted otherwise.
So let's begin with Vascular.
Total net sales were $248.6 million up 7% over last year on an as reported basis and 12% on a constant currency basis.
Excluding the royalty payment and the transition agreement related to the divestiture of electrophysiology products total Vascular sales were up 15% in Q2 with the United Stated business up 18% and international up 11%.
Sales in our surgical graft category were down 5% in the second quarter within the range of recent experience.
Our endovascular business grew 17% in the second quarter excluding the Gore royalty.
The key driver of this growth was strong Lutonix sales globally which drove our peripheral PTA line to increase 45%.
Our stent business declined 3% in Q2 consistent with recent trends.
Sales in our vena cava filter line were up 8% in Q2.
And as disclosed previously we recently had FDA inspections that resulted in a warning letter and we are working closely with the agency to resolve the issues identified.
And to complete the Vascular category our biopsy family of products grew 11% this quarter driven by over 40% growth in emerging markets.
Biopsy is one of our more global product lines in the portfolio with approximately 60% of our sales coming from outside the United States.
Let's go to Urology.
Total net sales were $209.2 million up 1% on an as-reported basis and up 4% on a constant currency basis compared to the second quarter of 2014.
The United States business was up 4% while internationally we grew 6%.
Our basic drainage business was up 3% both globally and in the United States with our I.C.
Foley business down 2% globally and 4% in the United States.
Our targeted temperature management products grew in the healthy double-digits again this quarter.
Our continence business was up 4% in Q2 compared to a year ago.
Sales in urological specialties were up 3% this quarter including our brachytherapy business which grew 1%.
And finally in this category standalone sales of our StatLock catheter stabilization line increased 2% in the second quarter.
Let's move on to Oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $235.2 million an increase of 5% on an as-reported basis and 8% on a constant currency basis over Q2 last year.
Geographically net sales in the United States were up 5% and international sales were up 17%.
Our port business was up 1% versus Q2 of last year.
Our PICC revenue was up 11% this quarter with each of our major geographical regions performing well.
As we've said before we believe PICCs represent our largest single outside of the United States revenue growth opportunity and we are focused on developing the international markets and advancing lives in the delivery of healthcare across the globe.
Our vascular access ultrasound product line grew 20% this quarter with significant growth coming from both the United States and internationally.
And to close out this category our dialysis access product line was up 7% this quarter.
Let's conclude with our Surgical Specialties business.
Total net sales in this category were $143.8 million up 3% as reported and up 6% on a constant currency basis.
United States sales were up 6% and international sales were up 9% this quarter.
We are pleased with the continued momentum from our biosurgery business which grew in the healthy double-digits again this quarter.
Our soft tissue repair business grew 8% in the second quarter which is the best result since the first quarter of 2011.
Our synthetic hernia products grew 9% this quarter and our natural tissue products grew 8% driven by our new XenMatrix antibacterial porcine mesh or XenAB.
And our hernia fixation business which is included in the soft tissue repair subtotal declined 5% this quarter.
John DeFord will tell you about a couple of launches that we hope can change the trajectory here.
Closing out the surgical category in Q2 our performance irrigation business was down 35% similar to last quarter as we told you that we discontinued certain product lines in this category at the beginning of 2015.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to John DeFord for a pipeline update.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</strong> Thanks John and good afternoon everyone.
Q2 was a pretty busy quarter for our R&amp;D teams and for the sake of time I'll just hit some of the highlights today.
I'll start with drug-coated balloons where we're excited to report the publication of the LEVANT 2 study in the New England Journal of Medicine on July 9.
We also released a first look at the 24 month results from the LEVANT 2 study and data from our global registry at the Society of Vascular Surgery meeting in mid-June.
While those are important events we're continuing to push forward with additional configurations sizes and indications worldwide.
Our PMA supplement for 120 millimeter and 150 millimeter balloon lengths was recently approved and the rollout of these sizes is underway for use in the SFA and popliteal arteries.
Enrollment continues in our below-the-knee IDE and in-stent restenosis studies and we received IDE approval and enrolled the first few patients in our AV access drug-coated balloon study.
We're also on track to start our LEVANT China clinical trial and enroll our first patient before the end of the year.
Also in Vascular the LifeStream balloon expandable covered stent IDE continues to enroll very rapidly and I am pleased to announce that we've completed enrollment of the initial cohort required for analysis of our primary endpoint.
We're continuing to enroll a larger cohort and anticipate completing recruitment by the end of the year.
This clinical study is evaluating the technology for the treatment of iliac artery disease with a nine-month follow up.
In other stent graft news our next generation device for use in AV access is in final internal testing and we anticipate launching in Europe in Q4.
This product will require a clinical study for U.S.
approval and we anticipate filing the IDE and initiating a study in the first half 2016.
Our Vena stent project is on a similar development pathway and we anticipate launching in Europe in Q4 and initiating an IDE study around the end of the year.
Next moving to urology and home care we're anticipating the launch of a new intermittent self-catheterization product the MAGIC 3 TOUCHLESS later this quarter.
MAGIC 3 TOUCHLESS combines the comfort and insertion benefits of the MAGIC 3 platform with our TOUCHLESS closed system to reduce the risk of contamination and infection due to catheter insertion in more challenging environments outside of the hospital.
In June we launched our new HYDROSIL Rose 2 intermittent catheter designed specifically for the female patient.
HYDROSIL Rose 2 incorporates a new handle design to further ease insertion with the technology of our MAGIC 3 silicone catheter and very low friction coating.
The new handle is also designed to simplify the interface of the catheter with the drainage bag for enhanced patient control.
Closing this category I'm happy to tell you about our new self-lubricating catheterization product the MAGIC 3 Go.
This new family of catheters anticipated to begin rollout around the end of the year incorporates our new and proprietary coating technology that provides a hydrophilic low-friction insertion without the mess and inconvenience of a water sachet.
This new coating provides a sterile and wetted catheter surface straight from the package without excess moisture and is designed specifically to address the needs of users outside the acute setting that may have limited dexterity.
Moving to Oncology earlier this month we launched the new Site-Rite 8 ultrasound system with integrated 3CG diamond in Europe.
The Site-Rite 8 with Pinpoint GT technology and 3CG diamond is slated for U.S.
launch in Q4.
We believe the combination of ultrasound needle guidance and catheter tip confirmation in an integrated system will provide a full-featured user-friendly and intuitive solution for vascular catheter placement.
In PICCs we've submitted for U.S.
regulatory clearance a new catheter line that's highly resistant to the chemicals used in chemotherapy as well as cleaning and disinfecting agents.
This new and proprietary material is designed for extended exposure to these various solutions while maintaining the catheter characteristics that have made our PICCs the market leader.
We anticipate product launch in Q4.
As Tim announced we've recently closed the acquisition of Vascular Pathways and have begun selling the AccuCath product.
We believe the combination of our PICCs PowerGlide Midline family and AccuCath will help us bring the best guidewire-assisted peripheral devices to a broad spectrum of patients with vascular access needs.
We're also working toward the launch in the first half of 2016 of a next generation of both the PowerGlide and AccuCath products.
For the acute hemodialysis patient we've recently launched our new Trialysis Slim catheter.
Trialysis Slim incorporates superior flexibility and kink resistance with flow rates in excess of 400 milliliters per minute and a small 12 French triple lumen catheter configuration.
I'll close my portion of the discussion today with surgery and I'm pleased to present a series of launches ongoing or anticipated this quarter.
First in hernia repair our new Phasix ST is expected to launch in just a couple of weeks.
Phasix ST incorporates our proven Sepra barrier technology with our bioresorbable Phasix mesh to provide a fully resorbable ventral hernia repair solution.
This new offering supplements XenMatrix AB XenMatrix and Phasix and allows us to offer proprietary and differentiated products that address the spectrum of complex abdominal wall repairs.
Moving on to our biosurgery product family in Q2 we filed our PMA supplement seeking approval for our new TRIDYNE Vascular Sealant and continue to anticipate approval and launch in mid-2016.
And finally in mesh fixation we're in the early launch phase of our OPTIFIX spring-loaded resorbable tack device.
OPTIFIX has been designed to employ stored energy for ease and efficiency of tack delivery while reducing tissue trauma that's been associated with some other fixation devices.
We're also in the early rollout of our new permanent fixation device named CapSure.
CapSure is designed to reduce the risk of tissue injury due to exposed sharps seen on some other permanent fixation devices and incorporates a small cap on the tack to reduce the risk of adhesions also seen with some other products.
With these two fixation launches we're excited to move back to playing offence in this highly competitive space.
Thanks for your attention.
Let me know hand it over to Chris.
Thank you John.
Let's first start with the items that affect the comparability of our results between periods.
This quarter we received $210.5 million related to the willfulness ruling in the Gore litigation.
In product liability matters based on recent developments including progress on several large settlements in Q2 we recorded a net charge of $343.7 million primarily related to pelvic health product litigation.
We also had acquisition related items of $4.5 million in the quarter and charges of $8.5 million related to restructuring and productivity initiatives.
The P&amp;L impact for these items is detailed in the notes to the financial statement and the reconciliation accompanying our Q2 earnings press release.
Now let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $526.1 million or 61.2% of sales for Q2.
On an adjusted basis GP was 61.4% of sales up 10 basis points from the prior-year quarter a little better than we expected.
New amortization of intangibles relating to activity in the last 12 months cost us about 30 basis points year-over-year this quarter.
Price was unfavorable at 120 basis points on the revenue line and 40 basis points in gross profit consistent with expectations.
And foreign exchange was about a 50 basis point headwind to gross margin in the quarter.
Mix was favorable by 40 basis points and our cost improvements and the timing of manufacturing variances drove approximately 90 basis points of favorability in GP in Q2.
As we've described in the past manufacturing variances can be somewhat lumpy from quarter-to-quarter and in comparison to prior year causing some ebbs and flows in GP.
So in Q3 we expect the gross margin of about 61% even.
Our cost savings and margin improvement programs are on track and we remain comfortable with our full-year guidance of GPs of between 61.4% and 61.8%.
SG&amp;A expenses were $250 million for the quarter or 29.1% of sales.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A as a percentage of net sales was 29% even or 60 basis points lower than Q2 of 2014 consistent with our full-year guidance.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $64 million for the second quarter or 7.4% of sales on a reported basis.
On an adjusted basis R&amp;D expense as a percentage of sales was 7.3% again consistent with our full-year guidance.
I'll remind you that a couple of years ago we significantly increased the level of R&amp;D investment and we are now seeing leverage from that higher investment level as sales increase.
We remain on offense from an investment standpoint and based on what we've seen in the results in the first half of the year on sales and income we intend to increase funding towards certain projects in both SG&amp;A and R&amp;D that we believe drive long-term shareholder value.
Interest expense was $11.2 million for the second quarter and other income and expense was $141.7 million of expense for the second quarter as reported or zero on an adjusted basis.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 24.9% down 80 basis points from the prior year.
We continue to expect the effective tax rate for the full year to improve between zero and 50 basis points when compared to the full-year 2014.
As a reminder our full-year EPS guidance continues to assume the renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit in Q4.
Diluted shares for the period were 75.5 million and we repurchased approximately 194 000 shares in the second quarter.
The net result is adjusted EPS of $2.27 well above the range we provided by the quarter driven primarily by the overachievement in sales.
The balance sheet as of June 30 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of $1.1 billion compared $1.03 billion at March 31.
For the quarter accounts receivables days were down 0.4 days and inventory days were up 0.6 days.
Capital expenditures totaled $28.4 million in the quarter.
On the liability side total debt was $1.4 billion as of June 30 compared to $1.6 billion at March 31.
Debt to total capital at the end of the second quarter was about 46% and total shareholder investment was $1.7 billion as of June 30.
Now moving to financial guidance for Q3 we are expecting constant currency sales growth between 6% and 7% and organic sales growth between 6.5% and 7.5%.
We expect the Gore royalty to decline compared to the prior year due to foreign exchange.
With regard to the full year we now expect constant currency sales growth to be between 5% and 6% and organic sales growth to be between 5.5% and 6.5% which is a full 150 basis point improvement from our original guidance in January.
And we now expect foreign exchange to reduce sales for both Q3 and the full year by about 350 basis points.
From an EPS standpoint excluding items affecting comparability we expect the third quarter in the range of $2.21 to $2.25 per share reflecting a somewhat lower gross margin and the higher R&amp;D spend compared to Q2 and the prior year.
For the full year we're increasing our adjusted EPS guidance by $0.05 to a range of $9 to $9.10.
This higher range reflects modest dilution from our recent acquisition and the increased investments we expect to make in SG&amp;A and R&amp;D during the second half of 2015.
In summary the first half of the year has gone quite well from both a sales and profitability perspective.
As we now move to the second half we remain focused on executing our investment plan and pursuing strategic opportunities with the clear objective of driving attractive and sustainable revenue growth profitability and shareholder returns over the long term.
I'll now turn you back to Tim.
Thanks Chris.
That does conclude the formal part of the presentation.
I'll now turn the call back to the moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A session.
Due to the number of investors on the call I'd ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
As Mr.
Ring said due to the large number of investors expected on the call please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up only.
If you have additional questions you may reenter the queue.
One moment for the first question.
We have a question from Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Thanks can you hear me okay? Sure can Bob.
Sure.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Good afternoon.
Given the outperformance in revenues I wanted to focus my questions there.
So I guess from a top-down perspective as you look at the composition of the growth drivers is there anything in this quarter that you think was maybe one-time in nature? And also Tim for you do you think this had anything to do with kind of a pickup in markets? Or is this really more Bard-specific innovation that's driving the growth? Sure.
With respect to the first question Bob and I think we've tried to capture it in our guidance our organic revenue growth guidance for Q3 of course Q2 was the first quarter in which Boston Scientific was distributing the Lutonix balloon as well.
As we've talked about we certainly expected some of those initial orders to be stocking orders.
It's difficult to be at all precise in terms of what portion of it were but certainly that probably would be the one item.
And we had signaled that clearly coming into the quarter that is relatively one-time in nature.
Obviously only a couple of quarters to cycle through that otherwise I think everything else is really part of the core at this point.
Yeah as it relates Bob to the underlying market it still is hard to say exactly.
Things feel a little bit better.
It's hard to hang your hat on a lot of specifics.
Clearly we watch other competitors and companies in our space or close to it and ancillary spaces and try to get a feel from their trends.
I'd say for the first half of the year it's been somewhat positive although it is mixed when you look at some of the larger companies there.
So it's hard to say.
I would say we're pleased with our emerging market growth and that's a lot of moving parts but everything seem to be moving in the right direction for the quarter for us.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Yeah that was  So my second question one of the things that I thought was impressive is that in addition to drug-coated balloons it looks like the underlying core business also accelerated here.
So was emerging markets kind of in that 20% threshold like you've been seeing or did that accelerate? And then maybe lastly if you could comment a little bit on hernia because you've got some product momentum going there which I know is a very high-margin business.
So if you could just talk about maybe in a little more detail some of these launches that you've recently had and have coming in the near future and just put those in perspective for us about how big an opportunity those might be? Thank you I think the quarter could be summed up as that we had really very consistent growth through all the different businesses and geographies.
I mean it was hard to go through our entire portfolio and find a weakness in it this quarter.
As it relates to emerging markets and we actually without giving out any numbers of what our actual growth was we did see an uptick in growth and it really was across the board of the emerging markets.
Again the consistency theme that we started with.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> And Bob just jumping in on the pipeline and some of the launches I think we have had a pretty good string here of some good launches around the company XenAB for example that John talked about.
The Phasix product in the synthetics seems to be doing well.
We've talked about Phasix ST as a upcoming launch here in the next few weeks and then obviously OPTIFIX and CapSure really too new to have changed trajectory yet.
But we think that all of those and you talk about hernia in particular are a pretty reasonable bag that we've got right now of new technology a lot of stuff for the rest to talk about and a lot of good products to help patients.
Larry Keusch with Raymond James is next.
Please go ahead.
Mr.
Keusch please press your mute button we can't hear you.
Inc.</span></strong> Sorry about that.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> For Tim and Chris I wanted to touch on the capital allocation.
Obviously Tim you've stated in the past that you're a little disappointed with the cadence of M&amp;A last year and here we are sitting in July with not much done yet.
So I'm wondering if you can talk a little bit about the environment and do you still think you have some opportunity there? And then obviously not a whole lot of stock repurchased during the quarter so really just trying to understand you guys have a lot of cash a lot of cash flow generation kind of what the plans there are? Sure.
I'll cover that broadly and if Chris wants to comment relative to anything specific I'll let him jump in.
Our strategic use of cash has not changed strategic first.
But we continue to be extremely active in the business development front.
That's a bit opportunistic and timing to bring things along but we're as active as we've been.
And hopefully we'll be able to post some more things going forward.
But certainly that's more timing-related than effort or focus-related.
And the share buyback would be the second use of cash and dividend third beyond that.
Chris do you want to...? And Larry we'll continue to do both.
Obviously we knew we would be closing the acquisition in early July so obviously we had a use of cash coming into Q3.
And as we move forward through Q3 and Q4 I would expect us to continue to be active on the repurchase side always with a view to what the pipeline looks like.
And as Tim said and as you guys all well know it ebbs and flows and you can't exactly predict which ones are going to get over the finish line despite the I think very high level of activity that we have.
So the priorities are clear.
We'd love to be closing more.
We're certainly trying.
And absent that and in conjunction with that we'll continue to return cash to shareholders in a pretty consistent basis between buybacks and obviously the slightly increased dividend.
Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan is next.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
So Tim this is your best quarter since I think the fourth quarter of 2008.
What do you think  besides Lutonix and the launch which we're all aware of what do you think kicked in this quarter in the base business? And it looks like you had some U.S.
businesses that did a lot better than they've been doing trend-wise but you also had like surgery had a really big business outside the U.S.
so it's kind of all over the map.
What was special this quarter that kicked in? And obviously based on your guidance you're assuming a high level of sustainability.
Yeah really there wasn't any magic formula.
We've been making a number of different investments as you know for several years across the board both in SG&amp;A sales force expansion and R&amp;D.
And a lot of those just happened to come together from an execution point of view in the quarter.
As John said it was very consistent across the board both from a product and geographic standpoint and I give a lot of credit to the management teams and the employees around the world for a very high level of execution in the quarter.
Okay.
So if I look at some of the different businesses so surgery outside the U.S.
as I mentioned was up 9% this quarter versus down 4% last quarter.
Part of that was because of the product lines you discontinued in irrigation.
But like that high single-digit performance in surgery outside the U.S.
that's sustainable obviously.
The Oncology performance outside the U.S.
which has been fantastic in the mid-teens or better that's sustainable? I wouldn't disagree with your viewpoint on that Mike.
We've talked for a while getting productivity in the sales forces that we've expanded.
We talk a lot about the pipeline of registrations in markets around the world all of that's been happening.
And you've got now larger more productive sales forces with more products in their bag.
And again it's two-plus years into the investment plan and I think you're seeing again Mike a lot of the results of those investments.
That's great.
Nice to see you guys.
Congrats.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thanks.
David Lewis with Morgan Stanley is next.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Just two quick questions.
Chris just first for you on the reinvestment.
It's obviously a dramatic opportunity here on the top line you're reinvesting some of that away but given the prior investment over the last 18 months can you give us a sense of where these investments in the second half of the year are going relative to where the prior investments were the last 15 or 18 months? And what does this tell us about the abilities to drive leverage as we look forward into 2016? And I had a quick follow-up.
Yeah I think clearly even with these investments David over the coming years we certainly intend to and believe we can continue to drive leverage.
I think the balance we're trying to strike is this sustainability question to take advantage of strength to make sure that we're doing everything we can with the pipeline and with the emerging geographies to continue to strengthen them over time.
And again I think this quarter and how we've done in the first half gives us some of that luxury.
We're frankly looking at some additional opportunities in emerging markets on the sales force side with a couple of product categories including in China.
We're ramping up some of the clinical trial work in a number of places.
John DeFord mentioned the trial in China.
And there are a couple of other projects that frankly we're able to turn on as we move into the back half of the year that we probably wouldn't have been able to if we hadn't performed quite as well as we have through the first half.
So we're trying to strike a balance with delivering strong returns in the near term but also continuing to set the portfolio up to drive attractive organic growth rates for the long term.
And that's the challenge and that's how we're trying to manage it.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then John you spent a fair amount of time on the call talking about intermittent catheters and that doesn't happen that often.
So I wonder if you could talk about the how you're seeing your portfolio and how you could exploit that opportunity in light of the patent expiry coming up for Coloplast SpeediCath.
Thank you.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Sure.
Well I think again just as Chris said and as Tim said we've had a lot of focus on execution and getting products through our development pipeline.
And so you see we're in a position to talk about some of these products that have been in the development pipeline and we're either launching or very near launch.
So it's a pretty exciting time for us.
I think as far as the intellectual property goes look we're certainly aware of all of that.
We already had internal developments of our own.
We think that we're in good shape and obviously on a go-forward basis we'll continue to look at ways that we can expand and develop products to meet the needs of our patients.
Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank is next.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Congrats on a good quarter.
I just wanted to address a couple things.
First with respect to the willfulness how should we just think about the cash that you're going to be receiving? Should we be thinking about it in the same context with respect to the lump sum that you received in terms of reinvestment in the context of giving back half to shareholders and reinvesting the rest back into the business? Or should we just think about that in terms of going to offset maybe some of the increased product liability claims that you have? How should we think about that offsetting from a P&amp;L perspective? Sure Kristen.
The cash actually was received in Q2 so it'll be reflected on the balance sheet for the quarter.
It's about $150 million after-tax.
And I think we've been pretty consistent.
It sort of goes into the kitty.
It obviously gives us some increased flexibility.
But it's not like we're going to do an incremental $75 million buyback on the back of the receipt of that cash.
So we'll as I said continue to be active from a buyback standpoint.
The money is already in the bank.
And again as Tim said we're also actively looking at opportunities on the business development side.
And again just a reminder with respect to the product liability...
Inc.</span></strong> That's O-U.S.
cash right? Those cash needs we'll be able to be serviced with our O-U.S.
cash.
Inc.</span></strong> And you also have like half of it you have it's offset by  you can claim against I guess it's now Medtronic or your other partner that you the original manufacturer as well right? Yeah.
As we've said and the Q will be out tomorrow and actually obviously there's been a lot of activity in the quarter vis--vis product liability and so there will be a lot of good disclosure for you.
But about half the claims as we've talked about relate to Medtronic and there's been good progress there as well with respect to a settlement.
So I think a lot of frankly productive activity as it relates to the product liability exposure and I think we feel good about where we are now exiting Q2.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay good.
And then just walking through the guidance you know it looks like you're  can you help me understand the key underlying changes within the sales growth rate? It looks like Gore is expected to decline due to FX and then you have the base kind of organic growth rate change which is an improvement from January but then you're raising full year EPS by just $0.05 just kind of the moving parts.
Maybe bridging the EPS reflecting the change in Gore relative to acquisitions and investments.
Yeah sure.
And it's a little unusual because organic growth is higher that constant currency and so that's why we're calling it out.
But so for Q3 organic of 6.5% to 7.5%.
We're saying a negative 50 basis points related to a decline in Gore so constant currency of 6% to 7% and FX impact of 3.5% so again a strong quarter.
And again the difference between Q3 and Q2 is Boston stocking orders in Q2.
For the full year the other impact organic at 5.5% to 6.5%.
You'll also see in Q4 a decline in our sales to Boston Scientific related to the electrophysiology products and that's actually material.
So that's why we've got this difference in for the full year from a constant currency basis to the organic number.
And again currency impacting it negatively by about 3.5%.
So a nice strong improvement in organic.
From a earnings standpoint we've talked about some dilution from the acquisition of $0.02 to $0.03.
And you'll see some stepped up investment in R&amp;D and SG&amp;A relative to what we would have done frankly otherwise given the strength in the top line.
So I think that kind of organic growth commitment for the full year moving earnings higher but still being able to maintain a high level of investment I think strikes the right balance.
David Roman with Goldman Sachs is next.
Please go ahead.
Thank you for taking the questions everybody and good afternoon.
I wanted just to start with the Surgical Specialties business which as a number of others have commented had a very nice tick up here.
And I think in your prepared remarks John you talked about the soft tissue repair franchise seeing its best growth since 2011.
Can you maybe just elaborate on that in a little bit more detail? Are we seeing sort of a bottoming out of utilization in that category? And some of the concerns that had driven those declines in 2011 are behind us? Or is it more new product related? No David I'd say it's all new products related.
We launched Phasix the year before last we've had great momentum building that business and continue to have strong momentum with Phasix.
The uptick of XenMatrix AB.
Having an antibiotic coating in challenged cases in ventral is a big deal and we saw outstanding uptake in XenAB in its first full quarter out there.
And we don't have any reason to believe we're not going to continue to be very successful in converting biological accounts to XenAB for those challenged cases.
So the pipeline is what's driving it.
We're delighted to say that with the two new fixation launches that we have over the new few quarters we expect the momentum that we started both in biologics to continue and build on that with the fixation launches.
Okay.
And then maybe just to follow-up on the M&amp;A topic.
Tim on the last call I'd asked about your view on looking at ROIC/growth versus just cash EPS accretion.
I mean over the past 90 days we've seen obviously continued M&amp;A activity across the landscape and valuations continue to move higher but somewhat more mixed equity market reaction to deals being announced.
Is there any sort of update on your thinking as you see the landscape unfold in front of you and the activity that's taken place over the past couple of months and how you're sort of sizing up your parameters for thinking about M&amp;A at this point? And how does the target environment maybe change as you put it into that context? Yeah no we haven't changed our filters at all relative to the way we look at things.
And I think if you were to go back and look at a lot of the growth or some of the growth in this quarter over the last several years a lot of it are platforms that we've either invested in internally like in the surgical area.
You've got bioabsorbables big investment in that whole biosurgical area both with acquisitions and internally.
And you're starting to see those pay off with increased revenue growth at a very nice margin.
So that's kind of the discipline that we have.
And frankly the external environment of diluting revenue growth for more accretion we watch that.
It hasn't changed our thinking at all in terms of how we look at acquisitions.
And Richard Newitter with Leerink Partners is next.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
It's Ravi here for Rich.
Can you hear me? Yeah we can Ravi.
Thanks.
A couple of questions.
One on the acquisition and then one maybe a longer-term question on the Gore royalty.
So I was hoping you could help me understand a little bit of the dilution around the Vascular Pathways.
Is that going to be disproportionate on your gross margins or SG&amp;A going forward? How should we think about that as we model going forward? And then with Gore I think the royalty comes off in 2019.
And just trying to figure out at this point it's a whiles away but what are you thinking about in terms of how you replace it? Is it mostly new indications related to organic organic growth other segments of the business step up inorganic acquisitions? How should we think about what's going to replace that in the long run? Thank you.
Sure.
First on the acquisition Ravi there's really no material sales at all in 2015.
We'll be looking to really launch it more broadly in 2016.
So I said it's $0.02 to $0.03 dilutive in 2015 and we're obviously covering that while still increasing our guidance for the year.
It will be relatively limited sales and breakeven on a cash EPS standpoint in 2016.
And then it'll become accretive in 2017 and beyond.
As John DeFord said it's a really interesting technology addition to the vascular access product portfolio for us and we think it will be an excellent long-term value creating investment for us.
But.
again I think it's too small at this stage for you to worry too much about and from a near-term standpoint we've covered the dilution.
I think the Gore royalty in 2019 we've talked about for a number of quarters now.
The objective of everything we're doing is frankly by 2019 to make that royalty a smaller and smaller and less significant portion of the P&amp;L.
Obviously this quarter helps in that regard.
We're looking internally and externally to find things that will provide good organic growth and then good drop-through so as we get to 2019 again the portfolio is performing in a way that helps to overcome some of that.
And I think we've been pretty frank about continuing to have a lot of balance sheet flexibility to help mitigate that impact as you jump from 2019 to 2020 through utilizing the balance sheet through increased share repurchase activity.
So we spent a lot of time planning and thinking about it and obviously as we get to 2019 there will be an opportunity for us to give you more visibility.
But we're certainly thinking about it in a way that it will be manageable.
And we'll make sure we do everything we can to mitigate the impact for investors.
David Turkaly with JMP Securities is next.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
This is John (51:00) on for Dave.
Can you hear me okay? Sure John (51:03).
All right.
So first I just wanted to follow up on the question Bob asked earlier on Lutonix.
Granted it's a different ball game now with Boston on board and strong registry data out there but given the stocking orders that have taken place make it a little bit tricky to evaluate what's going on.
I think it might be helpful to get a sense of any trends you're seeing in reorder rates.
Any color you can give us there would be helpful.
Well I would say that consistent with last quarter we're seeing uptick and uptake that has beat all of our internal projections which we're delighted with.
This quarter is no different than last quarter.
We like the momentum that we're building ourselves.
We have great expectations for the momentum Boston will bring to it.
In addition one of the areas that I would not discount is the additional reimbursement that was given to Lutonix during the quarter.
And I think a good way to look at that is that in essence there's full reimbursement now for Lutonix in all of these cases.
And the question would be based on the efficacy that you'll see in all the data sets registry datas et cetera why wouldn't you use Lutonix in a purple case? So I think that the momentum we're building at a field selling standpoint the momentum that the full reimbursement will give us and the fact that our own internal results are beating our expectations we like where we are right now.
Right thanks.
That's helpful.
And then I know a couple people have hit on it already but I just wanted to dig a little bit more into the uses of cash.
So if we look back historically at the M&amp;A there was a period of pretty significant activity from sort of late 2011 to late 2013.
A number of acquisitions divestiture of the EP business and then it kind of dropped off.
During that time across life sciences there was obviously a lot of activity.
There has been an enormous amount in the first half of 2015 and it's great to see the Vascular Pathways deal.
Is that a signal that you're refocusing on that in any way? Or is it just that targets have been harder to find? Sellers' expectations have been too lofty? Maybe if you can just comment on that that would be helpful.
Sure.
I'll take a stab at the broader kind of environment comment.
There's a lot of things that go into looking at deals including our high filters.
There have been some assets that have traded over the last couple of years that frankly we'd taken a look at and passed on.
Other companies have gone forward and acquired those.
They didn't meet our expectations on what our filters are which are focused primarily on being a market leader number one.
And number two product leadership the sustainability of that and the revenue growth profile projected on a sustainable basis.
So it just takes time and we're turning over a lot of rocks and all I can tell you is we haven't changed our strategy or mindset relative to doing those things.
We look at those as adding platforms to do more investment with going forward as to just buying revenue.
So I wouldn't read anything into one deal changing our outlook one way or the other from quarter-to-quarter.
And the only thing I'd add to that is that if we look back at the transactions that we made the decision on we wanted to complete our success rate is very very very high.
And I'd use Lutonix as a good example of that.
The next question is coming from the line of Matt Taylor with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
I wanted to just drill down a little bit more on the emerging market growth.
You did provide some details but I was wondering if this quarter there was more of a step up and sometimes I don't like this analogy.
But what inning of your investment are you in there and how long of a runway do you have? Well the best way I can describe that is we think we're kind of in the second inning.
And I'd say that for this reason 35% of our worldwide sales force is in emerging markets yet it represents only 10% of our revenue today.
We've made the investments and we'll continue to make investments in those geographies but I would say we're very early in the cycle.
And that adds tremendously to the accretive nature of those investments that are already made as it relates to future revenues that come from that.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
And one follow-up on Lutonix I guess just given the strength are you willing to give any kind of update in terms of your thoughts on market size or market share or the future applications? Yeah I'll take that.
We're either number one or number two.
Market share data doesn't come out for a while.
We're pleased with momentum and the build of the market.
I think if you a lot of analysts have written that they would look at the size of the U.S.
market being closer to the $140 million to $160 million size on an annualized basis.
It's hard for us to project that but that's probably close to being right I think.
We initially thought it was going to be closer to $100 million.
So all that's indicative of a lot of excitement and uptake in the market for a technology and a product that's very important in terms of being able to treat patients with peripheral artery disease.
Anthony Petrone with Jefferies is next.
Please go ahead.
Great.
I'm going to stay on the topics on emerging markets and Lutonix.
I guess first on emerging markets you mentioned the PICC opportunity is quite large in the various markets that you've invested in.
Can you size what the opportunity is and maybe how long it will take to maybe fully realize that opportunity? Well I think we're going to refrain talking about the size of the opportunity for competitive reasons.
But it's  quite frankly it's solely in our hands in that these markets don't exist for the most part today.
We have to do the market building work the education work and the training work in order to build these markets then to substantial opportunities.
So it's not as if we're just trying to convert out someone else's product.
The reality is we have to go in and create these markets from scratch.
I think we have said it is our largest and fastest growing product in China for example.
And to John's point we're in the early stages we believe of really building that market.
And I think the exciting thing about PICCs is that it's not just an emerging market opportunity.
There's lots of developed geographies where PICCs just have not penetrated the market yet.
Frankly some of the investments we started to make a couple of years ago were focused on those geographies and we're seeing strong double-digit north of 20% growth in PICCs in developed markets as well.
So this has a long way to play out.
And as we've said in our prepared remarks it continues to be the largest global opportunity we believe for us.
Hey James we've crossed the hour here.
Let's just take one more and then we'll end it.
Okay.
The final question is from Josh Jennings with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good evening.
Thanks a lot.
Just a quick question on Lutonix we talked to some clinicians that are using drug-coated balloons in cases of all varieties above the knee in-stent restenosis post atherectomy and just wanted to see if you could give us some anecdotal information around types of cases that drug-coated balloons and Lutonix specifically are being used in by your customer base? And then just a follow-up for Chris any update in terms of longer-term tax rate targets? And my understanding is that you expect 0 to 50 basis points of improvement in 2015 and maybe can that continue to trend down with some tax optimization strategies in the out years? Thanks gentlemen.
Yeah Josh this is Tim and then I'll let John DeFord comment on the Lutonix question.
Yeah I think it's just too early for us to really be able to call out any trends of usage of Lutonix in either certain types of patients lesions or if other technologies are used or not.
I think what you're seeing and what you're hearing is what frankly we thought when we bought the technology that this is a huge unmet need and that I think over a number of years this is going to play out relative to all the things that you've pointed out and how well they work either together or independently what kind of lesions et cetera.
And the data will tell us how that plays out but suffice it to say that there's an awful lot of use and interest.
Various clinicians tend to focus in one of those areas more than another and we're seeing those physicians have an interest in trying drug-coated balloon technology together with their techniques or technologies depending on how they look at treating the disease.
So I think it's going to take a number of years for that to play out to be able to cite any trends.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Yeah I think that's right Tim.
Anything that we'd share today would sort of be anecdotes and really probably wouldn't be that helpful.
I think it'll take a little while for some CMS data to come out to see how the technology's being used and if it's being used.
Certainly we would expect that there'd be more use of provisional stenting than what we saw in the LEVANT 2 trial for example.
We saw that in the registry it's sort of the 20%-plus range.
So other than that it's all anecdote at this point just too early.
Yeah Josh just on the tax question we actually have over the last couple of years completed some meaningful projects.
Ironically the onset of the Gore royalty which is taxed at full U.S.
rates sort of hit some of the progress we've made on the tax rate.
We're certainly continuing to evaluate additional opportunities.
They will occur over time and certainly as we move year-to-year we'll provide guidance to reflect that.
There are not  there are no easy large big wins if you will but we'll continue to tackle over time and certainly one of our objectives is to move the tax rate down consistently over time and we'll again on an annual basis continue to give you guidance insight into what kind of progress we're making there.
This concludes our Q&amp;A session.
I would like to turn the call back over to Bard's management for closing or additional comments.
Thank you very much and I'd like thank all of you for taking the time to join us today as well as thanking Bard's employees around the world for their commitment to excellence and a very good execution quarter.
We'll talk to you next quarter.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the C.
R.
Bard Inc.
Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer.
Christopher S.
Holland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information in Bard's June 30 2015 Form 10-Q and the information under the caption Risk Factors and Bard's 2014 10-K including disclosure of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance of the company and its individual product franchises.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings press release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of October 22 2015 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information unless otherwise noted.
All comparisons are to the prior year period.
At this time I will turn the call over to Mr.
Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
And I'd like to welcome everyone to Bard's third quarter 2015 earnings call and thank all of you for taking the time to join us today.
We expect the presentation portion of the call to last about 30 minutes and the total call will last about an hour.
The agenda today will be as follows: I'll begin with an overview of the results for the quarter.
John Weiland our President and COO will review third quarter product line revenue.
John DeFord our Senior VP of Science Technology and Clinical Affairs will give you an update on our product development pipeline.
And Chris Holland our Senior VP and CFO will review the third quarter income statement balance sheet as well as our expectations for the fourth quarter.
And then finally we'll close with Q&amp;A.
Third quarter 2015 net sales totaled $865.7 million that's up 4% over Q3 of last year on an as-reported basis and up 8% on a constant currency basis.
The currency impact for the quarter versus the same quarter last year was unfavorable about 370 basis points.
Excluding the Gore royalty of $38.4 million and sales related to recent acquisitions and divestitures our organic growth rate was approximately 8.3% for the quarter.
That's above our expectations.
The U.S.
sales of the Lutonix drug-coated balloon contributed a little less than 300 basis points of growth in Q3.
Net loss for the quarter of 2015 was $86 million and diluted loss per share was $1.16.
Excluding these items that affected the comparability of results between periods which Chris will cover later third quarter 2015 net income was $154.5 million and diluted earnings per share which excludes amortization of intangibles were $2.28.
That's up 4% and 6% respectively.
Looking at revenue growth geographically compared to the same quarter last year third quarter net sales in the U.S.
were up 7%.
Internationally we grew 10% on a constant currency basis with Europe growing 7% Japan declining 1% and our other international businesses growing 18% this quarter.
Strong quarter in Europe was driven by endovascular radiology and PICCs and a slight decline in Japan was due to inventory fluctuations at our joint venture.
You may have noticed a few weeks ago we announced the acquisition of the remaining 50% ownership of our Japanese joint venture.
We expect this transaction to be completed in the coming weeks.
While it comes with some near-term dilution driven by exchange we believe this is strategically important for us.
Increased investment for market development and clinical trials in Japan was difficult with the structure of the joint venture when you combine that with foreign exchange pressure.
So we decided this was a timely opportunity to take full ownership and advance our product leadership strategy in the world's third largest healthcare market.
Our emerging markets business continues to grow in healthy double-digits following our significant investments there over the last couple of years.
So as we look at our overall results for the quarter and the first nine months of 2015 we said at the beginning of the year that it was an important year of execution for us and so far we're pleased with the results.
As we projected at the announcement of our strategic investment plan nearly three years ago now we are back at the top-end of the sector from a revenue growth perspective and we remain convinced that above market revenue growth is a key to a premium multiple.
We remain focused on making investment scenarios of faster growth in a profitable manner to enhance shareholder value over the long-term.
So with that let me turn you over to John Weiland for a review of our product line revenue.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</strong> Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start let me point out that I'll be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior year period on a constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
So let's begin with Vascular.
Growth in this category was 13% for the quarter or 8% as reported with total net sales of $250.5 million.
Excluding the Gore royalty and the divested EP sales total Vascular sales grew 16% globally with the United States business up 18% and the international business growing 14% in the quarter.
Sales in our Surgical Graft category were up 4% in Q3.
Excluding the Gore royalty our endovascular business increased 18% in the third quarter.
Within endovascular our biopsy products had another strong quarter with 14% growth with nice performance in the United States and even better performance outside of the United States.
Sales in our peripheral PTA line increased 48% driven by global sales of our Lutonix drug-coated balloon.
We're very pleased with the performance of this important product which anniversaried its FDA approval and the U.S.
launch on October 10.
It has been a good first 12 months in the United States and we're pleased with results from our Real-World Registry study.
John DeFord will tell you more about this in a few minutes.
As we seek to expand the indications and reach of this compelling technology platform we expect to see long-term global growth from Lutonix.
Our stent business declined 3% again this quarter consistent with recent experience.
And finally net sales in our Vena Cava Filter line declined 3% in Q3.
So let's go to Urology.
Total net sales were $212.3 million up 5% versus Q3 of last year on a constant currency basis and 1% on an as reported basis.
The United States business grew 5% while internationally we grew 4%.
Our Targeted Temperature Management products grew in the healthy double-digits again this quarter.
Our basic drainage business was up 6% globally in Q3 with the United States business up 7%.
Our I.C.
Foley business was up 3% globally and up 1% in the United States.
We believe that Foley's this quarter benefited from some dealer stocking but we don't know the precise impact.
So we've been cautioned against reading too much into these improved growth rates in a single quarter.
Our continence business decreased 3% in the third quarter.
Sales in urological specialties grew 1% with our Brachytherapy business down 1%.
And finally in this category standalone sales of our StatLock Catheter Stabilization product line declined 4% in Q3.
Now let's go to Oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $239.3 million an increase of 8% on a constant currency basis and 4% on an as-reported basis over the third quarter last year.
Geographically net sales in the United States were up 5% and international sales were up 15%.
Our Port business decreased 1% this quarter due to the price reductions in the United States that we talked about at the beginning of the year.
Our PICC revenue was up 13% in the third quarter including strong results in the United States Europe and emerging markets again this quarter.
We're very pleased with the clinical adoption of our advanced technology which helps patients and can save time and cost for the hospital.
Despite the competitive noise on single features here and there we believe that the quality and performance of our broad product offering is why we continue to grow faster than the market.
And as the competition tries to catch-up to our older products we continue to advance the technology and solve unmet needs for our customers and our patients.
John DeFord will tell you more about this.
Our Vascular Access Ultrasound product line was up 1% this quarter.
The growth rates for this system can be a little lumpy around new product launches and that's what we're seeing due to the Vision II launch in the prior year and the pending Site-Rite 8 launch later this year.
And to complete Oncology our Dialysis Access product line was up 12% over Q3 of last year.
So let's conclude with our Surgical Specialties business.
Total net sales in this category were $139.8 million up 6% on a constant currency basis and up 3% as reported.
United States sales were up 6% and international sales grew 4% this quarter.
Two years after the acquisition of the Arista hemostat and three years after the acquisition of the Progel Sealant technology our combined biosurgical product portfolio continues to grow double-digits.
Our soft tissue repair business grew 7% in Q3 with our synthetic ventral hernia repair products growing 6%.
While our natural tissue products grew 14% driven by our new XenMatrix AB coated porcine mesh.
Our Hernia Fixation business grew 2% this quarter which was the first quarter in positive territory since the second quarter of 2011.
We are hopeful that our new product launches here can reverse the trend of declines in recent years.
In closing out the Surgical category our Performance Irrigation business was down 20% in Q3 as we told you we discontinued some products earlier in the year.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
And now I'll now turn you over to John DeFord.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</strong> Thanks John and good afternoon or maybe it's evening for everyone.
Thanks for taking time to join us today.
For the sake of time I'll jump right into some highlights starting with drug-coated balloons.
About two weeks ago at TCT we released full 12-month results from our almost 700-patient global SFA and popliteal registry.
Lesion lengths were over 100 millimeters about half the patients had significant calcification and over 30% of the lesions treated were chronic total occlusions.
The study found over 94% of patients were free from TLR through the 12-month follow-up with primary patency in almost 90% of patients.
Interim 24-month results demonstrated 93% freedom from TLR and primary patency in excess of 80%.
We believe the learnings from the LEVANT 2 study on keys to a successful procedure are working their way into real-world practice and we're very pleased with the results.
In our below-the-knee IDE enrollment continues though recruitment remains slower than planned due to the complex nature of these patients and their disease.
We're working with FDA to find ways to speed up enrollment and analysis in this important study.
At current recruitment rates we will likely continue to enroll patients through much of 2016 putting PMA submission in the second half of 2017.
On the other hand our AV Access DCB IDE study that began enrollment last quarter is recruiting very quickly and we anticipate enrollment could be complete as early as Q1 of 2016 which could put PMA submission ahead of schedule in the first half of 2017.
The In-Stent Restenosis IDE study is ongoing and we're currently planning a second half 2016 PMA submission seeking this expanded indication.
We have a host of other DCB studies ongoing or in startup around the world and we plan to begin enrollment in our LEVANT China study in Q1 of 2016.
Also in Vascular the LiFeStream Balloon Expandable Covered Stent IDE completed enrollment in Q3.
This clinical study is evaluating the technology for the treatment of iliac artery disease with a nine-month follow-up.
We anticipate PMA submission in the second half of 2016.
Our Covera (16:26) next-generation stent graft designed for use in the AV Access circuit is planned for launch in Europe this quarter and we're working with FDA to commence our U.S.
IDE study in the first half of 2016.
Our new Venovo (16:42) venous stent recently gained the CE Mark as with Covera (16:45) we're working closely with FDA to initiate an IDE study seeking U.S.
approval with enrollment plan to begin in the first half of next year.
Next moving to Urology and Home Care we're pleased to announce the release of the new MAGIC 3 GO self-lubricated catheter for female patients.
This product's designed for enhanced comfort and ease-of-use for patients that often have limited dexterity.
We plan to roll-out this product selectively during Q4 as we ramp manufacturing.
We also anticipate the launch of our MAGIC 3 TOUCHLESS catheter in early 2016.
Both of these products employ our latest silicone technology designed to enhance patient use and comfort.
We've got some other impactful products in this portfolio for launch later in 2016 but I'll hold off sharing the details until we get closer to those launches.
Now moving to Oncology the new Site-Rite 8 Ultrasound system with integrated 3CG diamond is rolling out in Europe.
The Site-Rite 8 with Pinpoint GT and 3CG diamond is on track for U.S.
launch in Q4 as John alluded to you.
We believe the combination of Ultrasound Needle Guidance and Catheter Tip Confirmation in an integrated system will provide a full-featured user-friendly and intuitive solution for vascular catheter placement.
In PICCs we've submitted the 510(k) and await FDA clearance to launch a new and proprietary catheter family.
These PICCs have been designed to resist common chemicals used in chemotherapy solutions as well as cleaning and disinfection agents.
While these solutions are known to degrade standard PICC materials this new catheter can maintain the same high performance standards available in our current PICCs even after long-term exposure.
We're also expanding our development efforts toward technologies we believe can further reduce the risk of thrombosis.
While we prefer to keep our development plans confidential I will say we have a new product family under development that's based on a new high-performance material.
We expect to begin launching products using this new material in the back half of next year.
Our current plans also anticipate commencement of studies to provide further clinical evidence to support the benefits of these new designs.
In concert with these efforts we've also recently launched a training program and some associated products designed to reduce infections and promote the safe and effective use of our PICCs.
With this change in near-term focus we've reduced the priority we placed on our antimicrobial and thrombo-resistant coating technologies.
The developments are ongoing but we don't believe they'll have a major revenue contribution compared to these other opportunities.
For the difficult stick IV catheter patients we announced on the last call the acquisition of the AccuCath guidewire-assisted PIV products.
We've taken that technology into our development engine and anticipate the launch of an improved family of AccuCath products in the first half of 2016.
These products are anticipated to launch alongside our new Midline Catheter the PowerGlide Pro also planned for launch in that same time period.
We believe the combination of our PICCs the PowerGlide Midline family and AccuCath IV product line will help us bring important guidewire-assisted devices to a broad spectrum of patients with Vascular Access needs.
Lastly for the acute hemodialysis patient we're expanding our family of catheters with the expected launch of a new dual lumen power Xenesis (20:17) catheter in Q1 of next year.
Xenesis (20:23) is designed for superior flexibility in kink resistance along with flow rates in excess of 400 mls per minute in a small 11-French catheter configuration.
I'll close my portion of the discussion today with Surgery.
Just a few weeks ago we launched our new Phasix ST Resorbable Synthetic Mesh.
This launch adds another differentiated product to our complex abdominal wall portfolio that includes XenMatrix XenMatrix AB and the Phasix Mesh technology.
We're continuing our efforts to expand our product offerings based on the Phasix platform and we expect to begin launching those new products over the next several quarters.
We're also making good progress on our development of additional sizes of our one-of-a-kind antibiotic coated XenMatrix AB Family with launches expected throughout 2016 and into 2017.
In our BioSurgery product offering on our last call I told you we filed our PMA supplement seeking approval of our new TRIDYNE Vascular Sealant and we continue to anticipate approval and launch in the back-half of next year.
And finally in mesh fixation we recently launched both the OptiFix spring-loaded resorbable tack device and the CapSure permanent fixation product.
We're working to build upon that momentum through the launch of two additional fixation devices but due to the competitiveness nature of this market I'll hold back the details for later call.
Thanks for your time and attention tonight.
Let me now hand you over to Chris.
Thank you John.
Let's start with the items that affect the comparability of our results between periods.
In Q3 we had acquisition-related items of $2.5 million and a $14.6 million charge for restructuring and productivity initiatives.
This quarter we have made significant additional progress in settlement activity related to our women's health product liability driven by this settlement progress and additional information learned from it as well as recent activity in other product liability matters we took an additional combined charge of $241.1 million this quarter.
The P&amp;L impact for these items is detailed in the notes to the financial statements and the reconciliation accompanying our Q3 earnings press release.
Now let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $529.4 million or 61.2% of sales for Q3.
On an adjusted basis gross profit was $530.3 million or 61.3% of sales a little better than we projected and down 120 basis points from the prior year.
New amortization of intangibles relating to transactions closed in the last 12 months was about 50 basis points this quarter and foreign exchange drove approximately 30 basis points of headwind for us in Q3.
Price was unfavorable by 90 basis points on the revenue line and approximately 30 basis points in gross profit and our mix was favorable by about 40 basis points this quarter.
As we forecasted last quarter the manufacturing variances in our plans from year-to-year can be a little lumpy and Q3 is an example of that.
In Q2 cost savings drove 90 basis points of improvement but in Q3 it was 50 basis points negative.
In Q4 we look for Q4 to look more like Q2 with strong favorability.
So we expect gross profit in Q4 on an adjusted basis to be a meaningful improvement over Q3 and back to the Q4 2014 level or maybe even a little bit better which will put us near the high-end of the original guidance we gave you for gross margins for the full year.
So it's been a year of solid organic improvement for us on the gross margin line.
SG&amp;A expenses were $247.1 million for the quarter or 28.5% of sales.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A was also 28.5% of sales down 60 basis points from Q3 of last year.
I'll remind you that we typically see an uptick in SG&amp;A as a percent of sales in Q4 sequentially but we expect to still see good leverage compared to the prior year and expect to be within our full year guidance for 2015.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $65.2 million or 7.5% of sales on a reported basis for the third quarter which was the same on an adjusted basis down 40 basis points from the prior year and right on our full year guidance.
We feel good about the level of investment in innovation and continue to drive an active new product pipeline towards faster revenue growth opportunities as you can probably tell from John DeFord's update.
Interest expense was $11.2 million for the third quarter no change from the prior year.
Other income and expense was $258.3 million of expense for the third quarter as reported and $1.8 million of expense on an adjusted basis.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 24.9% which is the same for the nine months year-to-date where we are down 50 basis points compared to the prior year consistent with our original guidance.
We do expect the renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit before the end of the year which would lower the rate in Q4.
Diluted shares on adjusted earnings for the period were 75.4 million and we repurchased 767 000 shares during the third quarter.
The net result is adjusted cash EPS for Q3 of $2.28 above the guidance range we provided for the quarter driven by the higher sales.
The balance sheet as of September 30 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of $1.1 billion no change from June 30.
For the quarter accounts receivables days were down 1.6 days and inventory days were down three days.
Capital expenditures totaled $21.7 million for the quarter.
On the liabilities side total debt was $1.4 billion as of September 30 no change from June 30.
Debt-to-total cap at the end of the third quarter was about 49% and total shareholder investment was $1.5 billion at September 30.
Now moving to financial guidance.
At the beginning of this year we guided organic revenue growth to be between 4% and 5% for the full year and we're now expecting to be closer to 6.5%.
That includes lapping the anniversary of the U.S.
launch of Lutonix in Q4 of 2014 which included significant initial stocking orders.
Excluding those initial stocking orders from last year which we estimate represent about 1% of sales to the quarter we project Q4 organic sales growth between 5% and 6% with about 300 basis points of headwind from FX and an additional 200 basis points of headwind from other sales reductions on a reported basis.
The biggest of these reductions relates to the pending acquisition of the Japanese joint venture which would add about $40 million to operating revenue on an annual basis.
However the joint venture is holding inventory we have already recorded as sales to them.
So we expect to have a negative impact to reported revenue in Q4 and Q1 until we work through that inventory.
We also as we've discussed in prior calls expect the sales of EP products to Boston Scientific to decline in Q4 as they've now started manufacturing some of those product lines themselves.
So we are projecting reported revenue to be flat to down 1% in Q4 even though the organic momentum in the business is expected to remain quite strong.
Now to update our expectations for adjusted cash EPS.
Following our announcement of the acquisition of our Japanese JV our latest forecast was $8.95 to $9.05 for the full year.
Today we are raising that guidance to be between $9.03 and $9.07.
At the midpoint this also represents a $0.05 increase to our original full year guidance provided in January despite absorbing approximately $0.15 of expected combined dilution from acquisitions and worsening FX during the year.
Specific to Q4 this means we expect adjusted cash EPS to be between $2.38 and $2.42 which includes about $0.06 from the renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit.
This performance speaks to the strength of our execution in 2015.
We've been able to increase investments in the business with the objective of sustaining above market revenue growth while absorbing dilution along the way and yet we still expect to increase the EPS delivered on the bottom line in 2015 above our initial expectations.
Thank you for your attention.
I'll now turn you back to Tim.
Thanks Chris.
That does conclude the formal part of the presentation.
I'll now hand the call out to the moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A session.
Due to the number of investors on the call I'd ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
Thank you very much.
And ladies and gentlemen we will now begin the question-and-answer session And again as Mr.
Ring said due to the large number of investors expected on the call please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up only.
If you have additional questions you may re-enter the queue.
At this time we go to our first question that will come from Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Can you hear me okay? Yeah we do Bob.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Great.
Good afternoon.
So two things one for Chris and one for Tim.
First Chris I was just wondering if you could go over some of the thoughts on Q4 especially as it relate to the EP business in Japan.
So that 5% to 6% revenue growth does that excludes those two things and can you just go into a little more detail on how those two things impact the guidance you've given on top line and bottom line? Sure.
So what we're saying for Q4 organic excluding the stocking impact from last year's Q4 is 5% to 6%.
So about a point from Lutonix stocking last year gets you to 4% to 5% organic.
There's then about 2% that relates specifically to the decline in Boston sales expected in the quarter and the impact of lower sales into Japan a result of us expecting to close the acquisition in a couple of weeks here.
So the combination of those and a flat Gore royalty reduced sales by 2%.
So you get the constant currency if you will Bob of 2% to 3% for the quarter.
And then the FX impact as we said is going to reduce sales by 3%.
So that then gets us to the negative 1% to zero on a reported basis.
All right.
I'm sure there'll be some follow-up on that.
But I wanted to ask one of Tim for my second question.
So Tim could you give us your sense as to the broader utilization environment that you saw in the quarter? And if you wouldn't mind breaking it out by the U.S.
and then separately emerging markets? And I ask it that way because it looks like you guys are seeing really good growth in emerging markets some of the orthopedic players like J&amp;J and Stryker have reported a slowdown in implant rates in Brazil and China and just wanted to get your  again your broader comments on utilization broken down U.S.
and emerging markets.
Yeah.
Again Bob I hesitate to call trends out of a quarter-to-quarter kind of a swing just because there's so much uncertainty going on all the time.
But I would have to say that our utilization was pretty strong our volume was strong everywhere.
There wasn't any weakness other than kind of the one we've cited in Japan geographically and emerging markets remains very strong for us.
We watch and hear and read what everybody else reports and we keep looking for that both in the projections we get in from the businesses and our actuals that we just haven't seen it.
So I would say similar to what we saw last quarter overall.
All right.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question in queue will come from Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Chris I think I need your help.
I'm still struggling a little bit with the fourth quarter guidance as well.
So first part of it is so why  as I understand Lutonix had stocking in the fourth quarter of last year but Lutonix revenues should year-over-year be up why are you describing there's a 100 basis points headwind? And then second just want to make sure I understand the impact both top line and on the gross margin of the Japanese joint venture buy-in in the fourth quarter that almost 200 basis-point reduction you're saying is coming from Japan.
Was there stocking of products into Japan over the last couple quarters that would have benefited those quarters relative to kind of underlying trends? Thanks.
Sure Mike.
I think when we talk about Lutonix and we talked about Q2 and Q3 with sales to Boston right? As Boston stepped up sales and we talked about stocking in Q2 with Boston we think we've actually seen some stocking in Q3 as well.
We actually launched a couple of additional lengths in the quarter as well.
So I think certainly as we look at Q4 as it relates to Boston's order pattern we would certainly expect to see a sequential decline as they begin to now work through that initial inventory.
So that's certainly impacting the overall growth rate for Lutonix as we look at Q4.
We're seeing continued very strong organic growth in Lutonix relative to last Q4 though we had a large stocking order in our own business right? And so that's  it's that lapping event as well as the sequential sales into Boston that are just driving some of the sequential moves for Lutonix.
The challenge...
So how are you coming up with that 100 basis points just so we can understand what that is? Yeah that's our  as we evaluated last year's Q4 sales of Lutonix that's our estimate of what the stocking component of those sales were.
Okay.
So you're basically taking out the stocking but you're not giving yourselves credit for the underlying sales? Yeah we've not projected a number for Lutonix for Q4 in the analysis that Chris gave.
Okay.
Okay.
But you're not giving  you're giving yourself the penalty but not the benefit.
Yeah but I think the other sequential impact is sales  our expected sales into Boston.
Understood.
Understood.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
And then just the Japan piece Chris.
Yeah the impact there and it's about $11 million Mike.
And the way  so last year we would in the ordinary course be selling product into the JV as they are obviously then selling out.
They maintain levels of inventory that are similar to us and similar to the sector.
The sales that we make to them once we close the transaction we will not record until they're sold out the door.
And so they're sitting on inventory today we haven't closed the transaction.
We've already recorded sales for  as they then sell those products out the door in November and December we can't record the sale again.
In the ordinary course we'll continue to ship product to them which is what we did last year but there is a delay now as that inventory needs to get sold once we have full ownership of the JV...
And my question Chris is that before distributors usually bought they have an incentive to stock up on extra product and I'm just making sure that the Japanese distributor wasn't buying in excess product to have as much on their shelves before the conversion? No to be very clear nothing about their order patterns last year and their order patterns this year are different at all.
So it's purely the mechanism that once we have ownership right we just have to wait for the inventory to clear before we record additional sales.
Got it.
Very clear.
Thanks guys.
Sure.
Thank you.
The next question in queue will come from Brooks West with Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
One more just on that last topic.
Chris you said $11 million impact from Japan in Q4 you said there is going to be a little bit into Q1 what is the impact in Q1? Yeah it's about the same impact.
Okay.
And then the last part of that is just some declines in EP sales to Boston Scientific.
Is that a surprise that that's dropping off or was that part of the forecast and again could you quantify that? Yeah.
Sure.
And actually if you go back to each quarter we've actually talked about it both coming into the year and every quarter because actually what they did prior to this quarter we actually were seeing growth in sales to them as they were actually building inventory in anticipation of the shift to self manufacturing.
We've taken those sales out of organic growth obviously the entire year.
And so we talked about Q4 being the first big quarter where we'd see step-down because they now have actually stood up the manufacturing plant in Costa Rica.
So that impact in the quarter is round numbers about $5 million.
So between that and Japan you're talking about $16 million $17 million of negative impact as it compares to prior year.
Okay.
And then I guess one big picture for me guys it looks like now you're going to have the Gore royalty through 2019 based on I guess the decision not to hear the case.
You've executed well against the investment plan you laid out.
I believe the only thing you haven't done is a big acquisition.
So I guess two-part question for Tim; how are you thinking about mitigating that the fall-off in the Gore royalty and can you just update us on what you're seeing out in the market and are you starting to get more aggressive given some of the declines in multiples we're seeing? Thanks.
Sure.
I think it's a little early to comment specifically on 2019 right now.
I can tell you though that clearly it's very visible in front of us it's clearly a noble event for us.
And we're obviously planning or what will become over time obvious that we've been planning and anticipating that.
So that's the comment generally about the Gore royalties.
Relative to our business development activity we remain extremely active going through a number of things in our what we call funnel if you will and I remain optimistic that that landscape continues to look robust for us.
And as we go ahead and close things we'll announce them when they occur.
Thank you.
Mr.
West does that answer your question? Yes.
Thank you.
Thanks.
And we'll go to the next question in queue that will come from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good evening everybody.
I wanted to actually come back to Lutonix and go into utilization in a little bit more detail.
Could you maybe talk to us about how you're seeing this being used in a real-world setting because our understanding and feedback from TCT is that that this is a technology that's getting used in a broad number of cases and it's not so much proving to be a replacement for things like stent therapy or atherectomy it's being more used as an adjunct.
Can you maybe give us your perspective on that and how you're seeing the adoption curve roll-out? Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Yeah John DeFord here.
Let me talk a little bit about the utilization.
I think what you heard at TCT is fairly consistent.
We're beginning to see drug-coated balloons used as sort of an initial therapy not necessarily the destination therapy but an initial therapy and then depending on the outcome of that initial therapy making other decisions.
Now obviously atherectomy or things like that might come into play prior to using any kind of other technology.
But by and enlarge we're seeing drug-coated balloons be used first.
And then as you would expect if there is provisional stenting required then stents are used.
If there are other technologies or other pieces needed then they get included.
So I don't think we ever expected DCB to replace some of these other technologies but we are seeing that move exactly as we expected to be the first line of therapy.
We think there is still a long way to go as far as grow with and penetration.
It's still early days but that's what we're seeing.
I think that's fairly consistent with what you've heard.
Okay.
And then maybe just sort of a broader question as you think about the growth rate.
2015 has obviously proven to be a very strong period of organic growth for the company.
And I think when you laid out the investment plan earlier about in early 2013 this is the year you were envisioning growing above market growth.
So maybe you can talk to us a little bit about where we are in the realization of the benefits in that investment plan and to what extent you think the trends you've seen over the past nine months and what you're guiding for the full year are sustainable? Yeah.
We haven't given guidance nor will be on this call for 2016.
I think if you go back and look at what we said in 2013 is we expected to be above-market revenue growth occurring about this point in time and that our expectation both with not only the investments that we made then but with the investments ongoing is that that would be sustainable.
So that's what we said a few years ago and that's kind of what the plan was and we'll give you guidance for 2016 in January.
Okay.
And maybe just again what are the different ways.
So if you think about the momentum in the business that you're seeing today is there any part of it you'd ascribe to macro-related factors I know this came up earlier in the call versus Bard-related factors? You know that in any given quarter and obviously I said earlier we watch and listen everybody it's very difficult for any company I don't care how big you are to know if you gain share or lost share the markets increased for say flat or decline from quarter-to-quarter.
I wouldn't say virtually impossible to know that that over that short period of time.
So we said in the past it kind of felt like things were getting a little bit better.
I think that some of the old metrics we used to use like hospital admissions especially when you're involved in procedures maybe aren't the bellwether science necessarily that they were a few years ago so some of the dynamics as you know in healthcare utilization generally are changing.
So it's kind of difficult to say when you look at how full mission metrics maybe going down and yet how revenue continues to grow up what does all that mean? Just very difficult to say.
We said earlier at the last call it feels a little bit better.
I would say that still holds true for this quarter just hard to put any fine points on it.
I think the only think I'd add David obviously we track the sector and when we look at organic growth rates across the sector actually over the last four quarters or five quarters they're frankly pretty flat relative sequentially and obviously we've moved higher over that period of time.
So at least the things that are growing for us in both emerging markets and in the product portfolio and Lutonix being part of that are related to things that we've invested in over the last couple of years.
And so we haven't seen material moves to Tim's point in volumes or utilization and as we look at the sector it certainly would appear to be that improvement in organic growth that we've experienced is directly related to the investments that we made.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue will come from David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
Chris just a quick follow-up on the Japanese distributor.
So the EPS dilution that you had previously described obviously it appears like it's dropping through and full in the fourth quarter.
Should we expect the same to hold true in 2016 the full $0.20 drops straight through or should we expect it to offset in some way? Yeah I think certainly it's a $0.20 hole right and it's purely related to the yen just to be clear.
So it's a hole and obviously we haven't given guidance David for 2016 but because of the transaction we're facing a much more significant yen headwind than we would've been otherwise.
So obviously as we roll up our budget and decide we're ready to commit to for 2016 we are starting with a big yen headwind that we wouldn't have had.
Now having said that it's a very interesting strategic move for us and we believe it will pay nice dividend long-term for the company but it's a headwind that we'll deal with as we go in 2016.
Okay.
And this is a follow-up maybe quickly for Chris.
Can you give us a sense of what that accretion or return looks like in 2017 and beyond? And then I guess just for John DeFord as it relates to Lutonix I guess if you give us a sense for in the field what do you think is resonating with clinicians more the trial data or the registry data and I guess more directly what I'm trying to get at is would you expect any impact on your business based on the impact one results post-TCT? Thank you.
Yeah.
I won't be specific David but assuming the yen stays roughly where it is and we execute which includes some interesting product launches for us into Japan including LifeStent and Lutonix over time here.
The business for us will turn nicely accretive beginning in 2017 and beyond but I'm not going to put a fine point on it for you.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Okay.
And then just jumping in to talk about the data we think that clinicians are really interested in looking at both pivotal and randomized studies and registries.
I think the LEVANT 2 study as published in New England Journal of Medicine and it was a very unique study design.
Also we've also found in that study that procedure really matters and that was something that came out at panel came out in some of the post discussions that the way the device was used compared to PTA was different and actually in our study the drug-coated balloon was used what you call had a less effective treatment at the end of the procedure compared to PTA.
Again I think that is attributed to some of the results that we see in our randomized study.
Certainly I understand our competitor wanting to try to shift the discussion back to theirs it's kind of interesting they haven't updated their registry data yet but our registry data real world is in much more difficult patients than we saw in LEVANT 2.
We think it's really demonstrating the real world usage of the technology.
And of course those clinicians were educated on the things that we've learned in the LEVANT 2 on the importance of fully inflating the balloons getting good expansion appropriate access to the vessel and the lesion quickly and other things that were discussed by Dr.
Schmidt at TCT.
And so we think that these results are pretty indicative of real world usage based on that new knowledge.
Now what clinicians are going to do so far I think it's resonated pretty well that drug-coated balloons work and at least the two technologies on the market today seem to work pretty similarly.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Are we ready for the next question? That will come...
We are.
Thanks.
It will come from David Turkaly with JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Do you guys give the percentage that emerging markets was in the quarter? It's about 9.5% of total sales David.
It's up about a 120 basis points year-over-year very strong double-digit growth and obviously continuing to move in the right direction overall.
There is some seasonality to the different geographies but we had another great quarter.
And again it's actually across all of the geographies just like we saw in Q2.
Great.
And obviously everyone is aware that you've hired a bunch of folks there.
I was just curious as you look at their productivity what all that look likes versus some of your U.S.
or European reps over time and then how long do you think it takes some of these guys to get fully ramping up to speed? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I would say that we're delighted with the ground game of our team in emerging markets.
We've been very aggressive in terms of adding that to field sales force around the world.
And as we've talked continually that sales force represents about 34% of our reps around the world.
It's the fastest area of investments for us in field sales reps yet it only equals a little bit less than 10% of our sales.
So we think we've made the right investments for the long-term.
We like the uptick that our people are giving us in the field but as they get seasoned it takes on average nine months to 12 months for a person to really be productive no matter what geography that you're working in and I would say that we're delighted with the execution in the ground game that our team is putting on not only in emerging markets but around the world.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Sure.
Thank you.
The next question in queue that will come from Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Hi Kristen.
Hi Kristen.
Inc.</span></strong> Good night.
I don't know where John DeFord is.
But I guess good afternoon to you.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> It seems dark here I don't know where you are? Inc.</span></strong> Anyway I was just wondering if you could explain a little bit more I think you had mentioned there was dealer stocking with Foley catheters because that seem to be up quite a lot.
I don't remember when they could  basic drainage has been up actually like 6% and 7% in the U.S.
So how big of a stocking was there in the quarter and will that just pull like as from the fourth quarter or is that  where does that shift from? Yeah.
I think and frankly Kristen we don't know for sure as we get additional tracing data.
We're speculating there was some in the quarter.
And so we just wanted to caution you against it.
It could possibly pull a bit from Q4 and that's certainly factored into our overall sales guidance.
So I don't want to make too much of it and we can't say for certain yet we'll know more in the coming weeks as we get additional tracing data.
I'd say in the grand scheme of things it's a really small point for us.
Yeah.
Across the board.
Yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
And then I guess just in general just in terms of I guess going back just to the M&amp;A side.
Tim is there anything in terms of the landscape that you're seeing that makes you more or less likely to go off into any additional areas whether it'd preference to do more smaller tuck-in deals for a product portfolio in the U.S.
or are you seeing or thinking about doing more deals that might give you greater exposure into international markets at this point or do you feel comfortable with the investments that you made in emerging markets that you have the right investments there and you're capable of growth given just the investments that you have already? Yeah.
Well in terms of our lenses and our filters the answer is yes to all the above we're looking at everything.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So relative to the landscape we kind of like what we see in terms of what's out there.
Our filters or our hurdles have not changed relative to our priorities.
We don't start with size as one of the first questions.
In fact probably it's a couple of reviews through a read before I even start to focus on that.
We're focused more on strategic intent.
Some of the examples of things we've done over the last couple of years our Targeted Temperature Management is one ratchets or (55:49) whatever.
We're focused on revenue growth because we think revenue growth provides a better shareholder return than a slower revenue growth than grinding on (55:58) on earnings.
So we look at revenue growth upside sustainability of that.
We actually look at each investment as is it a platform to invest further in whether that'd be both with technology.
And clearly at least given the size of the transactions we've done they've had limited capabilities outside the United States just from an expense of affordability standpoint and we already have that footprint.
So we look at all of those things but I'm optimistic about what the landscape looks like and we'll see how many of those actually clear our filters but we haven't changed our standards at all in the last several years.
Yeah.
I'd add that Kristen obviously we're focused on finding good targets internationally as well that fit all the same criteria.
And frankly within emerging markets we've continued to struggle to find good targets that meet the criteria that we have.
And so obviously we now have a really nice track record of executing organic growth-driven strategies in a lot of those markets and so we'll continue to do that while we still look.
But we're looking to Tim's point really around the world for opportunities that are first and foremost product leadership opportunities.
Inc.</span></strong> And the buying in of the JV over in Japan was that just because of the pressure of selling in dollars and the JV just taking a hit with currency or...
Well you know so...
Inc.</span></strong> ...just benefits of going direct? Yeah.
Let me  maybe a little background history here just for those of you that may not know this.
So if you go back into the 1990s we actually had a Bard Japan Limited business and Medicon the joint venture with Kobayashi that was primarily responsible for our urology product line.
In 1998 we sold off the Cardiology business as part of that transaction because of tax deals.
That entity in Japan went with that transaction.
So we had to make a decision back then do we put the rest of Bard's products into the joint venture or do we start our own business there.
Back then we made the decision we had a lot of confidence and faith in Medicon and obviously the fact that we just bought out the other half we have even more so now moved the entire product line into that JV.
Given the structure of the JV as we've invested more heavily internally in R&amp;D new product launches which require also clinical trials it just put pressure on the business model in Japan.
And strategically it made all the sense in the world for us to own the thing in its entirety so that we can make all the investment decisions we need to make to grow the business over the long-term.
Inc.</span></strong> That makes sense.
Okay.
And last one just because every other healthcare company's coming out today do you have an ownership stake in any pharmacy company? I'm just curious...
We do not.
Inc.</span></strong> Sorry.
I couldn't resist.
It's probably not funny for a lot of people who have dealt with a lot of facts today but...
Yeah.
Sure.
Inc.</span></strong> Anyway have a good night.
You too.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue will come from Neil Chatterji with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
This is Neil on for Josh Jennings.
Thanks for taking the question.
So you've highlighted in the past Targeted Temperature Management and BioSurgery as segments with significant market opportunity expansion and those have seen double-digit growth.
Can you give us some more color on how those lines are tracking relative to that and when you might see some significant ramp? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we've been seeing a significant ramp in those product lines since day one of the acquisitions.
We've been taking share annually in both of those major product lines that we acquired.
We've really build-out a very successful independent sales force pretty large by U.S.
standards in that business and I think they're executing extremely well.
So we have been growing substantially in that space.
We expect we will continue to and we're always looking for opportunities to be adjunctive to those product lines.
The only thing I would add Neil is that both of those opportunities play-out over a number of years because there is a number of additional indications that our technologies are going to be effective with both on the Targeted Temperature Management side as well as within BioSurgery.
So to Tim's point about having acquired platforms that have an investment opportunity beyond the initial product set that we acquired we've got a long runway we think in both of those categories to grow them for many years.
And again both of them are growing nicely in the double-digits as we sit here today.
Okay.
And just one quick follow-up.
So I believe you saw some softness in Europe earlier in the year but then volume seemed to recover the second quarter and then even more so in the third quarter here.
How are the reimbursement issues shaking out in Europe particularly in France? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well let me deal with the macro issue first I think that's the important one.
And that is that we did have a slow first quarter and I think as we predicted we thought the year would pick up and it certainly has.
Our team over there is executing extremely well.
There is nothing from a major pricing standpoint going on in our business in Europe and in fact our Europe was team was positive in price for the quarter.
So we don't see a big issue right now and looming in front of us in terms of reimbursement in France.
The only other thing I would add because I know there were some comments made perhaps by others in the market regarding specifically reimbursement for drug-coated balloons in Europe.
And I would just tell you that is a category reimbursement not kind of an individual brand reimbursement.
We're working very hard to expand that as well throughout Europe.
So...
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Yeah and that's where The New England Journal of Medicine publication frankly helps having that kind of publication is required in certain geographies to help achieve reimbursement.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thanks Neil.
Hey Tony we have crossed the top of the hour.
We're going to take two more questions and I apologize to anyone in the queue after that.
And so we'll take the next question then from Matt Taylor with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
I just had a follow-up on some of the Lutonix commentary.
I guess I just wanted to ask maybe in a more straightforward way if you could just talk about the underlying trends and what you're seeing there is sequentially versus the stocking there were a few stocking comments? And then conceptually the partnership with Boston Scientific has been interesting curious to know if you look out longer term do you think that they're going to be selling a meaningful chunk of your overall Lutonix sales if you could give us any sense of what the split would be there? And then is there any opportunity to expand that partnership into other product areas? Yeah.
So I think Matt just the sequential kind of Q2 Q3 Q4 and the first thing I'd say is we need as we've said it will be nice to have this all settle out but it's going to take a few quarters for this to settle out.
So Boston ramped up in Q2 certainly had some stocking in Q2.
As I said we launched a couple of additional sizes in Q3 which drove we think some additional stocking in Q3.
And so certainly we would expect a sequential decline in Q4 for Boston as they begin to work through that initial stocking inventory.
So when you then adjust for our stocking order last year in Q4 we're seeing really terrific both sequential and year-over-year growth in our base organic Lutonix business.
And feel really good about our competitive position and John DeFord talked about the Real-World registry data which is frankly outstanding.
So we need to get through these couple of quarters here and get to a steady-state next year where Boston's been in the business now with us for a while and we've then moved beyond our initial launch in the U.S.
I would say to the longer time issue on Boston we think the strategy was sound that we entered into.
Your question was what kind of a position will they have with Lutonix? I mean as we set out on this Boston had the right to sell the product in a small subset of customers based on where they had good relationships or position in a certain therapy that we're not involved in.
We have no plans to expand that to other product lines today or circumstances.
I think this was a unique opportunity for us to be complementary with Boston and a small segment of customers and I think that we like that positioning.
But Bard will be responsible for the greatest majority of sales and the greatest majority of customers obviously around the world.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then one follow up on Lutonix I guess.
Broadly just from the good data both out of your registry and the Medtronic data from TCT do you expect that or any other clinical or I guess market expansion catalyst to change the growth rate in the near-term of the market or you think we're just kind of going to see continued good growth? Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Well I'll jump in here.
I think we expect continued good growth but we also think that additional indications are really important.
So we talked about the studies the AV Access study below-the-knee In-Stent Restenosis other indications we think are additional catalysts for growth.
So we're strictly and specifically focused on those areas and we'll continue to be so.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks for the color.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Anthony Petrone with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks for taking the question.
One on Lutonix just wondering if you can provide an update on utilization per case how many balloons are actually used per case? And then one is a broader question; Community Health reported lower revenue per admission today and that was from lower negotiated rates from Medicare.
And then in addition we are seeing consolidation of private managed care companies.
I'm just wondering how you think this plays ultimately in price for medical device companies over time? Thanks.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Well I'm happy to jump in on the Lutonix side.
I can tell you that I'm not sure we have specific data to share on number of devices used per case just because we don't really have insight into that.
Unless we happen to have somebody standing in the room we wouldn't necessarily know.
I can tell you by the lesion lengths that we see we'd expect to sort of be in that 1.3 devices to 1.5 devices potentially per case kind of averaged out.
It's helpful.
Relative to the pricing scenario and consolidation of peers whatever look it's a very dynamic environment going on right now.
Pricing pressure has always been announced in other companies in the space.
I think specifically as you  I think the pricing dynamic is taking on a little bit larger or made a little bit of a larger impression in the investment community mainly because of some of the biotech and the pharma pricing issues that have been in the media recently.
A very large percentage I think it's 50% of our revenue has an ASP of less than $500 probably closer to $400.
So...
75%.
75% of our revenue actually.
So we're not exactly on the high-end of the radar screen here when they get to that.
Nonetheless the procedures they are under pressure and what we're trying to do is demonstrate the value and the quality and the outcomes and doing that with data which will gain a lot of traction and uptake from our customers as they move more to in the U.S.
an ACO kind of organization structure.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And I think that those data sets are certainly very helpful in driving reimbursement I'd evidenced full reimbursement for Lutonix as a result of that value analysis that we work with CMS on.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude our Q&amp;A session.
I would now like turn the call back over to Bard's management for closing or additional comments.
Thank you very much.
And I'd like thank all of you for joining us today and also close by thanking Bard employees globally for a strong year of execution so far.
So we'll update you again on our progress in January.
Thanks everybody.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference call for today.
We do thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T's Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the C.
R.
Bard Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Christopher S.
Holland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which are based on management's current expectations.
The accuracy of these statements are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
These statements are not historical in nature and use words such as anticipate estimate expect project intend forecast plan believe and other words of similar meaning.
Many factors may cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results including product development sales efforts income tax matters the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings the uncertainty of loss revenue estimates share repurchases acquisitions foreign exchange and other economic business competitive and regulatory factors.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information in Bard's September 30 2015 10-Q and the information under the caption Risk Factors in the company's 2014 10-K including disclosure of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance of the company and its individual product categories.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures with respective to the company's historical financial results are provided in Bard's earnings press release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of January 28 2016 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information.
Unless otherwise noted all comparisons are to the prior year-end.
At this time I will turn the call over to Timothy M.
Ring.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Ernie.
Good afternoon everybody and welcome to Bard's fourth quarter 2015 earnings call.
I would like to thank all of you for taking the time to join us today.
I'd expect the presentation portion of the call to last about 40 minutes.
You may note we have also placed a few slides on the Investor Relations page of our website to help you understand some of the moving pieces on our results and guidance to give you a little more clarity.
Our discussions today will go as follows: I'll begin with an overview of the results for the fourth quarter.
John Weiland our President and COO will cover the fourth quarter product line revenue.
John DeFord our Senior VP of Science Technology and Clinical Affairs will give you an update on the product development pipeline.
And then Chris Holland our SVP and CFO will cover the fourth quarter income statement balance sheet and provide our financial guidance for 2016.
And then we'll close with Q&amp;A.
Fourth quarter 2015 net sales totaled $878.8 million that's essentially flat on an as-reported basis and up 3% on a constant currency basis over the fourth quarter of last year.
Currency impact for the quarter versus the prior year was unfavorable by about 300 basis points.
Other non-operating adjustments also negatively affected revenue growth by about 200 basis points in the fourth quarter.
Adjusting for these items are organic growth rate for Q4 of 2015 was 5.5% which exceeded our guidance from three months earlier.
We've provided a summary reconciliation of these quarterly revenue results on slide three of the deck provided on the website that I just referenced.
Net sales for the full year were $3.4 billion that's up 3% as reported and up 6% on a constant currency basis.
That correlates to approximately 6.8% organic growth for the year compared with our original guidance for the year of 4% to 5%.
The U.S.
launch of the Lutonix drug-coated balloon exceeded our expectations and we're also pleased to see the acceleration of the rest of the portfolio in 2016.
It's notable that every business was at the top or above the revenue guidance ranges we provided a year ago.
Net income for the fourth quarter was $136.3 million and diluted earnings per share were $1.79 that's up 2% and 4% respectively.
Excluding items that affect the comparability of results between periods which Chris will cover later fourth quarter 2015 net income and diluted cash earnings per share which exclude amortization of intangibles were $164.6 million and $2.43 that's up 4% and 6% respectively.
Full year 2015 net income was $135.4 million and diluted EPS was $1.77.
Excluding items that affect comparability between periods full year 2015 net income was $615.8 million and diluted cash EPS were $9.08 that's up 5% and 8% respectively.
These results exceeded our original guidance for the year despite an estimated additional $0.15 of headwind during the year from a combination of additional FX headwinds and dilution from acquisitions during the year.
Looking at the fourth quarter revenue growth geographically compared to the prior year on a constant currency basis net sales in the U.S.
grew 2%.
Internationally we grew 5% with Europe up 7% Japan down 22% and our other international geographies up 16%.
To refresh your memory the decline in Japan is due to the work down of inventory that was record as revenue when we sold it to our Japanese joint venture prior to the acquisition of the joint venture.
This issue should be substantially behind us after the first quarter of this year.
As anticipated in our strategic investment plan our emerging market sales continue to increase nicely and represented about 10% of our total revenue in the fourth quarter.
Looking at overall results with some historical context three years ago we announced our strategic investment plan to invest in advance of the receipt of the Gore Royalty.
At that time our organic revenue growth profile was essentially flat.
We increased our annual spending and SG&amp;A and R&amp;D by combined $70 million.
We designed the investment plan to return the revenue growth of our portfolio to above market rates and to put the company in a better position for the longer term.
We then said on this call a year ago that 2015 was a very important year of execution for us to begin to see the results from that investment plan.
As we look at where we are today our organic growth rate has accelerated again to the top tier of the sector.
We're pleased with our teams that executed the plan and we believe we built the business in a matter that's sustainable.
We've been able to achieve our objectives while continuing to invest in future growth despite absorbing various headwinds along the way.
So while we're pleased with the execution of the plan so far our focus remains solidly on the future.
We have many potential opportunities for strong growth in front of us.
We believe we have significant room for growth in emerging markets.
We also have several technology platforms that we believe provide us with billions of dollars of market opportunity to pursue new indications and expanded market development and penetration.
And the Japan joint venture and Liberator acquisitions provide us better access to customers with delivery platforms that we believe will position us well for the long term.
So we remain in investment mode to pursue these opportunities.
Our objective remains sustained above market growth on the top line that we believe should provide an organic engine positioned for reliable and attractive profitability on the bottom-line.
Chris will give you more details when he lays out our financial guidance.
We continue to believe that the effective execution of our strategic investment plan will allow us to continue to increase shareholder value over the long term on a sustainable basis.
With that let me turn you over now to John Weiland for a review of our fourth quarter product line revenue.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</strong> Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start as usual I'll be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior year period on a constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
So let's start with Vascular.
Total net sales in this category for the quarter were $239.3 million a decline of 2% on a reported basis and an increase of 1% on a constant currency basis when compared to Q4 of 2014.
Adjusting for the non-operating items global vascular sales were up 5% with the U.S.
business down 3% for the quarter and international up 18%.
Sales in our Vascular Graft category were up 7% in Q4 which is above trend driven by some timing issues within our OEM business.
Excluding the Gore Royalty our endovascular business grew 4% in the fourth quarter.
Within endovascular our biopsy line was up 10% driven by strength in emerging markets.
Our peripheral PTA products were up 5% this quarter.
As expected the growth rate here was affected by the anniversary of the significant stocking event for Lutonix in Q4 of 2014 as well as the reduction in Japanese sales due to our inventory adjustment there.
As Tim said we are very pleased with the first year of our drug-coated balloon sales in the United States.
Sales in Q4 were as expected and we estimate that end customer usage which more than doubled the prior year.
We look forward to expanded adoption of this technology longer term as the market continues to develop.
Our stent business was up 4% in the fourth quarter which is better than recent trends driven by strength in this product family internationally.
And to complete the category sales in our Vena Cava Filter line were down 28% in the fourth quarter.
This was mostly due to a supplier component issue that we expect will be resolved in the next few months.
Now let's move to urology.
Total net sales were $217.9 million which is flat versus Q4 of last year on an as reported basis and up 3% on a constant currency basis.
Excluding the Japanese inventory issue global growth was 5% with the United States up 5% and international up 4%.
The Targeted Temperature Management products saw double-digit growth again this quarter both domestically and internationally.
Our basic drainage business was up 3% in Q4 globally and up 9% in the United States.
I.C.
Foleys were flat globally and up 7% in the United States.
We believe this strong finish to the year in the United States is more related to our sales mix than overall volumes.
We saw a particular strength in our temperature sensing products which are nearly double the ASP of our base product.
We continue to see a favorable shift in mix to higher ASP products.
Our continence business declined 1% from the prior year quarter.
Sales in urological specialties were up 1% with our Brachytherapy product line up 7%.
We do not hold significant Brachytherapy inventory in Japan.
So that product line benefited from moving to end customer pricing in the fourth quarter.
And sales from our STATLOCK catheter stabilization line decreased 3% in Q4.
Before we leave urology we're pleased to announce that we completed the acquisition of Liberator Medical last week.
As Tim said this adds a new delivery platform to a strong technology platform and we're very excited about the possibilities here.
Now for Oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $237.8 million which was flat compared to the fourth quarter last year on an as reported basis and up 3% on a constant currency basis.
Adjusting for the Japan inventory issue global sales were up 4% with the United States up 2% and international sales up 10%.
Our port line was down 8% versus the fourth quarter of last year.
The Japanese inventory issue contributed to this decline as did timing issues of orders in emerging markets which were lower than trend in the fourth quarter as we expect to register next generation devices there in the first quarter of 2016.
PICC revenue growth was 9% in the fourth quarter.
Contrary to ports we sell very few PICCs in Japan currently.
So the impact from the acquisition is minimal.
Our vascular access ultrasound product line was up 1% this quarter and our dialysis catheter business was up 9% in the fourth quarter.
So let's then finish up with surgical specialties.
Net sales in this category were $152.8 million in the fourth quarter up 5% on an as reported basis and 8% on a constant currency basis.
Adjusting for the Japan inventory issue global sales were up 10% with the United States up 11% and international sales up 7%.
Our Biosurgical product portfolio grew double digits again this quarter and we're excited about the long-term potential here.
Our Soft Tissue Repair business grew 9% overall in the fourth quarter.
Within that subtotal our total synthetic hernia products were up 9% this quarter while our natural tissue products increased 7%.
We're pleased with the execution and the momentum in our broad product portfolio of synthetic natural tissue and hybrid products for the treatment of hernia repair.
Our fixation business grew 15% in Q4 benefiting from the initial launch of new products in this product category.
Closing out the Surgical category our Performance Irrigation business was down 22% this quarter consistent with expectations.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to John DeFord.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</strong> Thanks John and good afternoon everyone.
2015 was a pretty busy year with about 40 product launches and several important developments and milestones reached.
We expect 2016 to be another year with a robust pipeline and a similar number of launches planned.
I'll start today with our drug-coated balloon pipeline.
We're building inventory for the launch in Q1 of recently approved additional lengths and diameters in the U.S.
SFA product line.
We've also submitted to FDA seeking approval for the treatment of long lesions based on clinical data we've gathered in Europe.
During the Leipzig Interventional Course or LINC meeting this week investigators are sharing data and updated results from several of our Bard-sponsored studies as well as results from independent studies of DCBs conducted by clinicians.
Some highlights include yesterday's presentation by Dr.
Christopher Metzger of updated Lutonix Global registry results including a 93% freedom from TLR at 24 months now in 229 patients.
He also presented results for subgroups including a first look at freedom from re-intervention for patients treated for In-Stent Restenosis.
At 12 months almost 92% of ISR patients were free from re-intervention and that result was durable with over 88% of patients free from intervention at 24 months.
Also yesterday Dr.
Sabine Steiner from University Hospital Leipzig presented results from their single center comparative study of the impact in Lutonix DCBs.
This real-world retrospective study included 12-month analysis of 456 patients with SFA and popliteal disease.
Though retrospective the baseline patient and lesion characteristics were pretty well matched.
This study treated very difficult patients with an average treated length in both groups of over 280 millimeters.
No statistical difference between devices was seen with freedom from re-intervention at 12 months in excess of 82%.
Sustained clinical benefit defined as freedom from an increase in Rutherford class was also found to exceed 80% in both groups at 12 months.
In our Below the Knee IDE enrollment progresses and we continue to work with FDA to expand patient inclusion and analysis in this important study.
At projected recruitment rates we anticipate we'll continue to enroll patients through 2016 putting PMA submission late in 2017 or likely into 2018.
On the other hand our AV Access DCB IDE study which began recruitment in Q2 of 2015 continues to enroll quickly.
At current rates we anticipate enrollment could be complete in late Q1 or Q2 of this year putting PMA submission slightly ahead of schedule in the first half of 2017.
The in-stent restenosis IDE study is also ongoing and we're working toward a projected second half 2016 PMA submission seeking this expanded indication.
Around the world we're also working to expand access to this important technology with submission for approval expected in the first half of the year in Japan.
We also expect enrollment to begin to accelerate in our LEVANT China Study.
Also in vascular the LifeStream Balloon Expandable Covered Stent continues to perform well in Europe.
The IDE is in follow-up after completing enrollment in Q3.
These clinical studies evaluating the technology for the treatment of iliac artery disease.
We'll remain on schedule for the projected submission of the final module of the PMA in the second half of the year.
Our Covera next-generation stent graft designed for use in AV access recently received CE mark and the IDE was submitted in December.
Our current plans have enrollment commencing in Q1.
And our new VENOVO venous stent also receive CE mark in Q4 and our first case was completed in December.
In the U.S.
we received approval to commence our IDE study a few weeks ago.
Next moving to Urology and home care we're expanding the launch of the new Magic3 GO self-lubricated catheter for female patients as our manufacturing ramps up inventory.
We're also building large quantities of our MAGIC3 TOUCHLESS and we anticipate launching the product family this quarter.
And in endourology we expect to launch around the end of Q1 upon FDA clearance the new PROXIS sheath family for flexible ureteroscopy.
In temperature management we've released software upgrades for enhanced EMR connectivity and additional user controls.
Moving to Oncology the new Site~Rite 8 Ultrasound System which launched in Europe in Q3 has received clearance in the U.S.
and we're launching the product this quarter with 3CG diamond and Pinpoint GT capabilities.
We continue to believe the combination of ultrasound needle guidance and catheter tracking and tip confirmation in an integrated system will provide a user-friendly and intuitive solution for vascular catheter placement.
In PICCs we're awaiting FDA clearance for the launch anticipated in the first half of this year of our new family of chemical-resistant catheters based on a new material design to resist commonly used chemotherapy solutions as well as cleaning and disinfecting agents.
We're also making steady progress on our new PICC family designed to reduce the risk of thrombosis or DVT and remain on plan to began launching in the back half of the year.
For the difficult stick IV catheter patients we are giving up to launch around the end of the first quarter an improved family of AccuCath wire guide assisted products.
These new products are anticipated to launch alongside our new midline catheter the PowerGlide Pro also slated for launch this quarter.
And lastly for the acute hemodialysis patient we're preparing for the launch of the new dual lumen Power Xenesis (23:43) catheter which was cleared by FDA earlier this month.
Xenesis (23:48) is designed for superior flexibility and kink resistance and flow rates in excess of 400 mLs per minute and an 11 French configuration.
I'll close my portion of the discussion today with surgery.
In 2016 we'll continue to expand our Phasix and XenMatrix AB families of products with launches planned throughout the year.
In our bio-surgery product family we're awaiting PMA approval for our new Tridyne vascular sealant and continue to anticipate approval and launch of the first in a series of indications in the back half of 2016.
We're also working towards the launch of a new Progel sealant configuration designed to improve visibility during minimally invasive and robotic surgery.
And finally in mesh fixation we're expanding on our recent permanent and resorbable product launches with two additional fixation devices slated for later this year.
And now before I hand you over to Chris I'd like to invite all of you to our Analyst Day to be held on Monday May 23 at the New York Palace Hotel at 4:30 PM.
I look forward to seeing you there.
I've stalled about as long as I can so I guess I'll hand it over to Chris now.
Thank you John and good afternoon everyone.
Let me start by covering the items that affect the comparability of our results between the periods.
We had acquisition related items of $33.9 million pre-tax a $14.5 million pre-tax charge for restructuring and productivity initiatives and a $4.5 million pre-tax charge for asset impairments.
These items are detailed in the notes to the financial statements and the reconciliation accompanying our Q4 earnings press release.
Now let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $550.8 million in Q4 or 63.3% of sales.
On an adjusted basis gross profit was $553.2 million or 63.5% of sales that's up 40 basis points from the prior year.
The headwinds to GP in Q4 included new amortization of about 30 basis points and FX at about 30 basis points.
Pricing pressure which was about 100 basis points of headwind on the revenue line was 40 basis points of headwind in GP during the quarter.
On the a positive side for GP mix was favorable by about 40 basis points and cost improvements and other items drove about 100 basis points of favorability this quarter.
For the full year 2015 that brings adjusted gross profit as a percentage of sales to 61.8% which was at the very high end of our original guidance down 30 basis points from 2014.
FX was a headwind of 30 basis points price was negative by 40 basis points and new amortization was also 40 basis points.
Mix was positive by 30 basis points and cost improvements and other items were about 50 basis points favorable.
SG&amp;A expenses were $279.3 million for the quarter or 32.1% of sales.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A was $271.3 million or 31.2% of sales.
That's up 110 basis points from the prior year primarily as a result of the acquisition of our Japanese joint venture.
For the full year 2015 adjusted SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales was 29.3% that's a decrease of 30 basis points from the prior year.
SG&amp;A was higher than we guided at the beginning of the year primarily because of acquisitions as well as some additional investment spending in the back half of the year reflective of our strong operating performance.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $69.4 million for the fourth quarter or 8% of sales.
On an adjusted basis R&amp;D expense was $64.8 million or 7.4% of sales a decrease of 80 basis points from the prior year period.
For the full year 2015 on an adjusted basis R&amp;D was also 7.4% of sales which was consistent with our guidance and reflective of a very robust level of investment spend.
Interest expense was $11.2 million for the fourth quarter and $44.9 million for the full year.
Other income and expense was $32.9 million of expense for the fourth quarter.
On an adjusted basis it was $5 million of income for the quarter and $1.6 million of income for the year.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 13.7%.
On an adjusted basis it was 22% taking us to 24.1% for the full year right in the middle of the guidance range we provided at the beginning of the year.
The quarter of course was lower than the full year average due to the renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit in December which as you now know has been made permanent.
That all adds up to cash EPS of $2.43 for Q4 excluding items affecting comparability bringing us in at $9.08 for the full year on the same basis.
That's $0.03 above the high end of our original guidance for the year despite having absorbed roughly $0.15 of additional FX headwind and dilution during the course of the year which is indicative of the strong operating performance we saw in 2015.
We repurchased about 600 000 shares of stock in Q4 taking total buybacks in 2015 to approximately 2.7 million shares.
The balance sheet as of December 31 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of $1 billion versus $1.1 billion at September 30.
For the full year AR days were up 0.8 days and inventory days were up 6.9 days driven by the acquisition of our Japanese JV.
Capital expenditures totaled $23.6 million for the quarter and $102.9 million for the year.
On the liability side total debt was $1.4 billion as of December 31 no change from September 30.
Debt to total cap at the end of the fourth quarter was about 49% and total shareholder investment was $1.5 billion at December 31.
So with the strong 2015 now on the books let's turn to financial guidance for 2016 excluding the impact of items that affect the comparability.
For revenue we project 2016 constant currency organic revenue growth between 5% and 6%.
Beyond organic growth will benefit from incremental revenue in 2016 from the acquisitions of our Japanese JV as well as Liberator Medical.
We also expect to see a non-operating reduction to revenue from lower sales of EP products to Boston Scientific and we're prepared for a range of levels for the Gore Royalty.
Therefore our overall constant currency revenue guidance is between 6% and 8%.
Our expectations assume no change in the market growth rates from where they've been in the last couple of years which we would characterize as being in the low-single digits.
Obviously the strength of the U.S.
dollar will continue to be a headwind for U.S.
multinational companies in 2016.
We estimate that at current rates we're looking at a revenue headwind related to currency of about 1.5% which would put our reported revenue guidance for 2016 between 4.5% and 6.5%.
As far as constant currency revenue growth in our four disease state categories in 2016 we expect vascular revenue growth to be between 3% and 7% Urology to be between 8% and 11% Oncology to grow between 5% and 8% and our Surgical Specialties business to grow between 6% and 9%.
To be clear these are constant currency growth rates not organic.
We're only providing organic revenue growth guidance at the corporate level.
As we move down the P&amp;L for financial guidance we're making one important change in our presentation.
As you know when the sector moved to cash EPS the vast majority of our peers excluded amortization of intangibles from their entire adjusted P&amp;L.
Up until now we've been reporting amortization in the entire P&amp;L and only excluding it from the EPS number below the line.
In order to make it easier for investors to understand our results in context with others in the sector beginning with 2016 we'll exclude the amortization of intangibles from our entire adjusted P&amp;L.
We've provided a reconciliation of the key margin percentages on the Reg G.
section of our Investor Relations page on our website and a summary of that reconciliation is provided on slide six of the deck associated with this call.
So the following guidance excludes items that may affect comparability and amortization of intangibles.
We expect our overall gross margin percent to improve in 2016 between 50 basis points and 100 basis points compared to 2015 which translates to a gross margin range between 65.8% and 66.3% that reflects about 30 basis points of pressure from FX.
Pricing pressure continues to be a challenge for us and we estimate the impact on 2016 to be between 30 basis points and 50 basis points of gross margin headwind.
Our cost improvement programs are projected to contribute between 80 basis points and 100 basis points of benefits to GP and we expect mix to be favorable between 50 basis points to 60 basis points which includes the positive gross margin impact from our acquisition in Japan.
We expect SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales to be about the same as 2015 as we continue to increase our investments in emerging markets this year and work to integrate our recent acquisitions.
And we expect R&amp;D as a percentage of sales to be in the mid 7% range again this year.
This would project our operating margin in 2016 to be between 29% and 29.5% which is an improvement of 50 basis points to 100 basis points compared to 2015 on the same basis.
We expect interest expense in 2016 to be between $50 million and $55 million reflecting higher projected average rates and debt levels compared to 2015.
Primarily as a result of jurisdictional mix we expect a slight pause in the cadence of the improvement in the effective tax rate which we project to be between 25.5% and 26% in 2016.
The R&amp;D tax credit is now permanent.
So we will not have the sharp reduction in the Q4 effective rate that we've seen in the last couple of years.
So all of that adds up to adjusted cash EPS for 2016 excluding items that affect comparability between $9.90 and $10.05 representing 9% to 11% reported growth over 2015.
This guidance includes a projected negative currency impact of about $0.30 based on today's rates.
The suspension of the medical device excise tax represents approximately $0.20 of benefit to us essentially offsetting two-thirds of our overall estimated currency headwind in 2016 at today's rates.
So were we to exclude both the negative impact of currency and the benefit from the MDET suspension our operational EPS growth forecast would have been between 10% and 12%.
As we enter 2016 we continue to be in investment mode with planned targeted incremental spending in SG&amp;A particularly in emerging markets and a continued robust level of investment in R&amp;D.
We're pleased that we're able to provide attractive 2016 guidance with strong reported earnings growth without having to reduce or delay investments and projects we believe we'll provide long-term value to our shareholders.
In Q1 we expect constant currency sales growth between 4.5% and 5.5% and reported revenue growth between 2.5% and 3.5%.
As with the case in Q4 Q1 revenue guidance reflects the negative impact from the sell-through of existing inventory in Japan.
We expect this factor to be behind us by Q2.
On an organic basis we expect Q1 sales growth to be in the 5.5% to 6% range.
We expect adjusted cash EPS in Q1 2016 to be between $2.14 and $2.18 which reflects the initial dilution from recent acquisitions as well as the foreign exchange headwind.
We expect the dilutive impact from acquisitions in particular our joint venture buyout in Japan to moderate as we move through 2016.
Excluding the front-loaded dilution from acquisitions Q1 adjusted EPS would have been about 10%.
So operationally I expect us to be off to a very solid start to the year as we move into Q1.
As for capital expenditures we expect 2016 to be in the $120 million range and we expect operating cash flow to be in the $700 million range in 2016.
Thank you for your attention.
And with that I'll turn you back to Tim.
Thank you Chris.
While we're pleased with our performance in 2015 as I mentioned earlier we remained very focused on the growth opportunities in front of us and our execution against the plan for those.
We look forward to updating you on our continued progress in the coming quarters.
With that that concludes the formal part of the presentation.
I'll now turn you back to the moderator to facilitate Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin the Q&amp;A session.
We'll go to Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thanks for taking the question and congrats on the strong finish to the year and the strong guidance.
A couple of things I wanted to ask about just in terms of the guidance that you provided.
I was wondering Chris or Tim if you guys could talk a little bit about some of the assumptions that drive the 2016 guidance? Specifically on buyback and share count for 2016 I'm wondering what you're assuming? And then also on drug-coated balloons could you give us a sense as to the contribution to growth in Q4 and the contribution to growth in 2016 that you're assuming? I assume it's probably between 1 point and 1.5 points of contribution to top-line growth but just wanted to confirm that.
Thank you.
Sure Bob.
Thanks for the questions.
I think on the buyback side we're not going to give a specific guidance number.
I think we've been pretty consistent as a repurchaser of our stock.
I think having said that we feel really good about the operational momentum in the business.
So I think we'll continue to have the latitude to maintain a lot of flexibility with the balance sheet.
And while we'll certainly be a active repurchaser I think we've got a lot of flexibility as we move into 2016 given what we see as really strong operating performance straight down the P&amp;L.
I think from a Lutonix standpoint we're really happy about where we are.
Q4 came in as we expected it to be.
Obviously overall we're ahead of our guidance for the quarter and I think as we move into 2016  we like to talk about not being about one big thing.
I think we're trying to really focus on the entire portfolio.
We feel terrific about Lutonix's momentum going into 2016.
I think some of the data that John referenced that's just hot off the press out of LINC continues to show a great clinical positioning of the product that frankly continues to get better the more we see some of this real world data coming out.
So it's a component of what we think is a really strong organic growth profile coming into 2016.
Okay fair enough.
Thanks for that.
And then Tim just on emerging markets we've heard a lot of discussion out of other companies on emerging markets today and it sounds like for you guys the growth continues to be strong.
But I just wanted to ask your views on emerging markets here exiting 2015 and beginning 2016 In Q4 did you see the same kind of growth trends that you've seen in the last couple of quarters and just any highlights on emerging markets or specific geographies would be helpful? Thank you.
Sure.
We haven't really seen a change from the trends that we've seen.
Clearly we pay attention to what others are seeing and feeling in emerging markets.
I think it might be kind of the mix of the geographies where we're strong and have a sizeable presence and some of the geographies that seem to be causing others more of an issue; either it's the mix of our offering in those geographies that don't seem to be impacted and/or we're not very strong in some of those other geographies.
So John if you want to...
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The only thing I'd add is that I think one of the unusual natures of our business is we're really still rolling out the portfolio of products into a lot of these markets.
In fact we had 252 new product approvals in 2015; that was up from 114 in 2014.
So we have a bolus of new products yet that are still in regulatory agencies around the world waiting for approvals all those are a wave that are coming through our international businesses through 2016.
I think that's a little unique to us based on the investments that we've made and the product mix that we're developing for these markets.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
Welcome.
Thank you.
Let's go to the line of Larry Keusch with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning or good afternoon I should say sorry.
Good evening Larry.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
So could we start off just Tim maybe I know that you've said that you assume the environment is sort of where it's been but I'm wondering as you kind of move through the fourth quarter and into 2016 was there anything notable that you might have been seeing that was changing in the U.S.? No.
We didn't detect any notable difference really at all.
John I don't know if you want...
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
I think that we didn't see any trends that would cause us to believe it's different from what we experienced through the majority of 2015.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Terrific.
And then Tim look on the home side you obviously did the Liberator deal you did Rochester a while back.
Can you sort of help us think about just what the strategy now is for the home now you've got some enhanced distribution.
You obviously have some new products flowing through which John talked about.
But where do we go with the home strategy? Yeah.
So look I think it's coming together.
We're still figuring it out as we go here and I do think we do know certain of the trends right.
So hospitals are trying to take care of more people outside of hospitals.
And obviously we paid attention to that.
We've done a lot of work relative to understanding that dynamic.
We think we understand very much the difference between a good solid product model and a service model and the profitability and sustainable growth differences between those two.
So I like the way we're positioned.
I'd say we're still understanding it and trying to figure out where to plug and play in that kind of an environment.
But we're optimistic about it which is why we pulled the trigger on Liberator.
We felt we needed that platform as a missing piece to solving that puzzle.
So we're pleased with that and I think you'll continue to hear more from us in the future on that front.
Larry I think just the one thing I'd add and I think it's important as you think about the strategy both Rochester and Liberator were movements into the home but based on the back of a strength in urology.
And I think as we said when we did Rochester and I'll repeat it again now that we've got this really interesting platform it works just on the back of a urology entry strategy into the home for us.
What it's given us is clearly these other capabilities that we can then begin to really think about how we can leverage into some other category areas but we don't need to do that to make this both the Rochester and the Liberator now in combination very successful and really accretive to us for a long period of time.
So I'd characterize it as a lower risk build of a new capability into an adjacency on the back of some core strengths we already have.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay terrific.
Thanks guys.
Sure.
Thank you.
Next we go to the line of Brooks West with Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
A question on margins maybe more theoretical.
Chris you're getting back to the margin profile that you had in 2012 which I think was a big kind of milestone for investors maybe you're a little bit ahead in gross margin almost there in operating margins.
I'm just wondering you've got leverage left in the business and specifically from the emerging markets investments that you made.
How do you think about running the business going forward? Do you kind of get to 30% operating margin and reinvest from there? Is there significant upside to where you might see operating margins progress from here? I'm just curious your thoughts there.
Yeah.
I think what we've been saying now for a number of years Brooks is we're focused on driving margins higher certainly back to the levels we were at we made good progress in 2015 and we've now committed to making additional significant progress in 2016.
As we do that we're continuing to balance that objective with longer-term investments that make all of this sustainable.
So we're not giving a longer-term margin goal that we get to and then we think about running business differently.
We're making investments in China as we go into 2016 and making investments in other areas in the business but still committing to 50 basis points to 100 basis points of operating margin performance.
We'll continue to try to strike that balance.
Obviously there'll be headwinds that come our way along the way but as Tim said this is all about sustainability and we like where we're at and we'd like the opportunities in front of us.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The only thing I would add to what Chris said is that when you look at our guidance for 2016 you note  and in our 2015 results you note the strength of the contributions of our operating manufacturing teams around the world.
That's a core capability that we believe we'll deliver every year for the corporation moving downstream and it gives us a lot of I think a lot of strength in the ability to make a lot of moves strategically depending on where we see the opportunities.
Thanks for that.
And then just one on the acquisition environment if I could.
There's been a lot of speculation on consolidation perhaps this year in med-tech.
I'm just wondering it seems like there's still a disconnect between valuation expectations from sellers and buyers.
I'm wondering if you're seeing that change at all or how your expectations might be for kind of the rest of the year here.
Thanks much.
Yeah.
I think it's hard to comment specifically.
Brooks obviously there's been a lot of volatility in the market.
Certain stocks have settled at much lower levels.
Certainly sellers always have a long memory in terms of recent highs.
So I think all of that noise doesn't really affect us frankly.
We're very focused on a number of key criteria and transactions need to make sense to us from a whole other set of perspectives as well as obviously from a valuation perspective.
So we're obviously in a world here with a lot of market volatility but I don't think it changes the things we're focused on and we looked at a lot of things in 2015.
We'll continue to be very active in looking but we'll pull the trigger on things that meet a whole bunch of criteria and we can get at a price that makes sense for our shareholders.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next we'll go to the line of David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good afternoon everybody.
I wanted to start with one clarification question around the EPS guidance.
Can you just help us tease out what the deal related dilution is in your guidance? And if that $0.25 number you provide around Medicon still holds and how that tracks throughout the course of the year? I think you said it was mostly Q1 weighted but if any  any more detail you can provide around the dilution from deals would be helpful.
Yeah.
So the Medicon dilution in the year David is about $0.20.
It's about half of that actually hits us in Q1 again because you've got obviously the full P&amp;L with the reduction in sales as well.
And the other acquisition the Vascular Pathways acquisition as we're really ramping up some of the R&amp;D spending around those  the products that were required are also more heavily impacted in Q1 before we launch the new AccuCath.
So the dilution from Medicon is still a good $0.20 number for the full year.
The other acquisitions Vascular Pathways caused us $0.03 to $0.05 in 2015.
It'll be a little bit less than that during the course of 2016 but obviously all of that's fully loaded into the $9.90 and $10.05.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And then maybe on Japan specifically you could help us think about the opportunity that exist in front of you and at least the way we thought about was two pieces.
There's obviously the price recovery from shifting from distributor to direct but then I think there's also a fairly significant market share opportunity across at least three of your four categories.
So can you maybe help us think about the cadence at which might be able to recognize that benefit and if sort of a similar playbook to what you've been able to execute in emerging markets and how we should think about the contribution to growth going forward? Yeah.
So I'll start and maybe John Weiland wants to jump in.
I wouldn't compare it to an emerging market and the models that we are running are different.
It's more of a mature market model.
Maybe it's a little bit of high grade in the sense that because we haven't had total control and management over all of these selling and marketing resources some of the things that we do relative to training and some of the management generally that practices we have around the world haven't been fully implemented there and we do think that implementing those in Japan will have a positive influence but that underlying growth of that market isn't anywhere close to what the emerging markets are.
So we see this as  we continue to invest in getting some of the clinical trials and some of the market investment build out of training et cetera clinical trials having control of that we thought was important thing from a long term in Japan.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think the only thing I'd add is we have 191 salespeople in Japan.
They will now be fully integrated in the Bard selling model which I think will be a significant momentum builder for us and I think that the product lines which we expect to come out of our own internal R&amp;D and clinical base this has been largely a Urology business historically as we move our competence into oncology into vascular into surgery I think that's where we believe we're going to have the bigger payback from.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And maybe just one more on a longer term basis.
As you look at the acquisition of Medicon as well as Liberator I think you've talked about both being accretive on a go-forward basis do you think you're tangibly getting closer to having a higher degree of confidence and being able to still the "Gore hole" (53:35) as we look toward a much more outer year period? Yeah.
I think these are just two more examples of all the things we're trying to do to grow the business in a way that we've got a really strong organic engine with lots of different growth platforms that are hopefully increasingly accretive as we approach the end of 2019 and 2020.
So these are just consistent with I think everything we're trying to do to build a really strong sustainable organic engine that looks attractive when it's compared to other alternatives in the sector.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Let's go to line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Chris can you just walk me through the impact of Medicon buying on your organic growth both this quarter and then as we  more importantly as we roll through 2016? Yeah.
It's about 2 points in Q1 Mike in comparison to prior year.
The thing about comparing it to last year is we were selling in dollars into Japan last year right.
And so as the yen has weakened and we're now consolidating the JV there's a negative impact to organic really over the course of the year but it's somewhat muted compared to what we're seeing in Q1 because of the inventory sell-through.
But we've looked at your organic growth as you guys are characterizing it here you're expecting a lower number obviously in the first quarter because of Medicon and then a much higher number over the back half  certainly over the back half of the year? It's excluded from organic growth Mike in the 5% to 6% guidance.
So the Medicon impact is excluded from that? Yeah.
And that's in your non-operational items? Yeah exactly.
Okay.
So  yeah.
Okay.
So you're including that in that.
Okay.
Yeah.
So it's totally pulled out.
And then Chris when you get to that $0.30 impact from FX off of just 150 basis points from the top line could you bridge us on that? Because just the math implies at a 60% pre-tax drop through but obviously it's tied to the Japanese distributor and...
It's driven by Japan Mike.
So again the way to think about is last year the JV was hedged at 102 on the yen.
This year we're naked on the yen.
So it's really  and we have 100% of the exposure to the JV compared to 50% last year.
So the $0.20 of dilution is really off from the impact of the yen when you compare 2015 to 2016.
Okay.
Perfect.
That's very helpful.
Thanks Chris.
Sure Mike.
Thank you.
Next we go to the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Maybe one for Chris and one for Tim.
So Chris you have two deals in 2016 Medicon and Liberator.
They have this muted effect on 2016 both with the yen exposure of Medicon and the reinvestment in Liberator.
But there's this hopefully bigger effect in 2017.
We think these deals could be at least $0.25 $0.30 accretive in 2017.
So I know you've been reluctant to provide the returns on Medicon but is there anything you can tell us about the potential returns in Medicon accretion Medicon relative to the 2016 dilution and give us a sense of the relative magnitude of the Liberator investment in 2016 so we can start thinking about how this begin to hit the P&amp;L in 2017? Yeah.
I think David hopefully you'll join us about a year from now and I'll give you a lot more visibility to that.
I think seriously they both become accretive going into 2017.
The Liberator platform is strategic to us.
We are making significant investments in 2016 and we've got a lot of work integrating Medicon and to John's point turning that sales force into a Bard sales force engine.
I think as we move into 2017 between now and then obviously lots of other things are going to happen.
Those will be two nice tailwinds but I'm not going to call out specific accretion from them in 2017 and how do you guys make assumptions before we wrap everything up and think about what kind of commitment we want to make for 2017.
But those are two nice tailwinds that we'll have and then we'll reassess additional investments  incremental investments as we get closer to see how 2017 is rolling up.
Okay.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think one of the things to think about in the Liberator and in our home strategy in general and Urology is that unlike most home care segments most home care segments are episodic.
A patient gets home from the hospital.
They're getting care at home for a given period of time.
They get well and they move off the rolls.
That's not the case in the urological segment.
Most of these patients are on catheterization for the rest of their life.
So they naturally build the business year after year after year as you add more patients to your segments.
Liberator and Rochester help us do that and they're both hand in glove Okay very helpful.
And then Tim just coming back to this notion of drop through and I think it seems like the message you have for shareholders as you're moving towards this durable kind of 6% top 10% bottom-line model look at the presentation the PowerPoint you provided and obviously underlying growth rates are in excess of 10% earnings.
So maybe just give us a sense of  do you think you can deliver greater than 10% earnings growth or is this sort of 300 basis points to 400 basis points of leverage on whatever top-line you put up is that sort of the model that we should continue to expire and expect? Well the guidance we just gave for the earnings of the guidance so I'm not going to change that during the course of the call here.
But if you go back even historically and look at some of the leverage between our revenue and our earnings it's been about that kind of a range.
We were 8% and 12% 10 years ago and you can get that kind of range which we think gives us a very fair return to shareholders and also gives us the flexibility to invest in the business for future growth and it's that balance between those two that we manage and we think that's a good balance at least to  certainly for this year.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Sure David.
Thank you.
Next we go to the line of Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks a lot.
I guess most of my questions were taken.
So I guess just thinking about I guess just acquisitions and just kind of appetite now are you seeing any  how do you expect kind of the rollout in 2016? Do you continue to think the pace of tuck-in acquisitions will accelerate from here? It's kind been asked in a couple of different ways but...
Yeah.
We haven't changed our strategy at all relative to acquisitions despite the commentary earlier about valuations perhaps changing around.
We have a very disciplined set of filters that we look at and it starts with strategic first.
And we don't see any reason to change that.
I would say our pipeline is extremely full.
I do know for example just already this year we've had meetings with well over 50 different companies and technologies et cetera which is a very strong start for this early in the year.
So that cadence hasn't changed really.
The effort momentum the resources are all what they were.
So we don't feel any differently about our profile in terms of doing acquisitions going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Do you think the suspension of the medical device tax perhaps changes sellers' minds especially on the small company level in terms of their desire to sell out maybe more in the near-term or...? I haven't had that or heard that portrayed by anybody yet.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then Chris I guess you had mentioned in terms of the guidance you had mentioned that it seems a wide range of I guess scenarios with the Gore Royalty I was just wondering if you could share what those wide range of scenarios are or if you've had any sense of a change in terms of the cadence of what that could be anything  I don't know if you just said that to include just different possibilities or if there's something behind that? That's how we've been approaching it Kristen so there's not a change.
Obviously it's been flat to down.
Obviously there's some FX component to that that we frankly don't have visibility into.
And we're making commitments to you guys and we take it really seriously and we understand we may see some variability there but we continue to not have visibility to the royalty until it comes in the door.
And so I think the same dynamic that's been in play for a while continues to be in play.
It's just we need to make sure that we've got business plans that can deliver on the commitments we're making to you without visibility to that one item.
It's not unlike Kristen our other businesses.
I mean we give you a range for the businesses that we run and know something about and there's a high and low-end to those too and the Gore thing is not dissimilar it's just we don't have any control over it.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
Look forward to the Analyst Day and hope you let John throw in some jokes there.
Not a chance.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> I'm not even getting a question I feel like I was just ear candy for the prepared portion.
Thanks Kristen.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thank you.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Hey operator since Kristen's questions were already taken and we are past the hour we're going to do three more analysts and then I apologize to everybody who's on the line after that.
Obviously we'll be available here tonight over the phone to take questions but  so we're going to do three more analysts okay Ernie? Okay thank you very much.
We'll go to the line of Dave Turkaly with JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
And just quickly on the Liberator deal I've gotten asked a couple of times sort of the buy versus build.
And I wondered if you can just spend a moment on sort of why that was a buy decision sort of what the secret sauce is there that you gained? Sure David.
On the back of Rochester one of the things we spent the last couple of years doing is getting really smart on the DME space.
And we obviously came to a strategic conclusion that we wanted to control our destiny.
And Liberator really in urology is the market-leading highest quality provider of urology-related products.
There's no question.
If you look at their metrics the quality of their billing the quality of their customer service and really the great partnerships they have with all the leading manufacturers they were frankly the only platform that would have fit what we were looking for.
And so the complexity of building a nationwide DME distribution having all of the licenses and all the capability to build and  bill and ship to Medicare patients in virtually all of the 50 states and to do that at the volume of transactions that they need to do it at is something that frankly would have not been economically viable for us to try to build.
So we're really fortunate that that team is now part of the Bard family and welcome them.
And really again they were the only  really the only company that was going to allow us to pursue this strategy.
So we're really  really feel great about having them on board now.
Thanks.
And then just on the tip navigation or confirmation on the PICC side we've seen some news from competition.
I guess penetration today where does that stand and I guess how big of an opportunity do you think that is for you guys moving forward? Thank you.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we're very well penetrated.
We don't give that number out for competitive reasons but we have a high degree of penetration of our base business.
We continue to add segments to that as you can see by the new product launches that we talk about year in and year out within that segment.
So we're not slowing down at all.
And at the same time if you look at some of the new product lines that we're bringing to the PICC area John talked about them tonight you add some of those important competitive differentiators to our already strong differentiated position we think our position only gets stronger and stronger in the months and years to come versus any competitive offerings and the like.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Yeah.
And as John said we've been trying to move the needle here and move the game and the goalpost time after time.
So as we've added Pinpoint GT which is rolling out this quarter it's a new technology to further improve and simplify the placement of our devices.
We already have of course the ultrasound capability which is pretty unique to us on an integrated basis.
And then our tip tracking technology the Sherlock.
And then of course we also continue to improve upon our final tip confirmation technology and so we continue to add new algorithms and new ways to make that better like 3CG diamond.
So we think we're going to continue to do that.
We've got a few other tricks up our sleeve and we'll  as we get further down the pathway here we'll talk about them.
Thank you.
Welcome.
Thank you.
Next we'll go to the line of Matt Taylor with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi thanks for taking the question.
So I wanted to just ask one you were going through some of the new products and lines of the Lutonix balloon that you're coming out with here in the beginning of the year.
I was just wondering if you thought that would make a material difference in the applicability and the growth rate or if there are any other catalysts that you're looking for in 2016 that you think could meaningfully juice your DCB sales? Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Well so I think there's a few things that we've got in there.
We talked about the longer lengths.
So we've submitted data seeking approval for treatment of patients with lengths up to about 300 millimeter.
So about twice the length that we have now.
That could potentially open up the market.
In-stent restenosis probably a lot of that is going on today but having the ability to promote that is going to be helpful and some of the other sizes we talked about.
We've got some other launches that we hope will come in this year that we think will be helpful.
And then obviously expanding indications is going to be key below the knee AV access which is a little more near term for the U.S.
market and it's an area where we're particularly strong anyway with our stent graft technology as well as some of the other products we have for dialysis patients I think give us what we think is a pretty good opportunity for DCB and our ability to leverage that.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then I was just curious on Liberator really two minor questions.
One is you can kind of see their mix in the last 10-K in terms of what they distributed.
I was wondering if you could help us understand how much of that revenue is going through your different segments.
And then also I guess what was your history with them working with them before how much product was yours going through that channel and what else can you bring now to the table? Sure.
So just to be clear we're selling through them today and prior to the acquisition just urology products.
So we were a pretty small part of their volume.
So probably less than 10% overall.
They've been a very high-quality partner to us.
Again they're the leading independent urology DME and so they have urology ostomy and some mastectomy products but again we're only selling urology products to them today and that's certainly obviously going to continue to be the case for the foreseeable future.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I guess what else can you kind of bring in to the channel right away or I mean where do you see that expanding down the road? Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Yeah.
I think that was the point I was trying to make.
It...
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> We're obviously to John's commentary around the expansion of our ISC catheter portfolio that's continuing to become much more robust and that's really the first R&amp;D products coming out of the Rochester R&amp;D engine.
This acquisition and this strategy is a winner for us just within urology.
And that's what we're focused on integrating Liberator getting this off to a very strong start.
We've talked about investing in the platform and expanding it including the sales force that's supporting it.
Those are the near-term milestones that we're focused on.
What we're going to have now is this aperture into the home that's going to allow us to think more broadly beyond urology.
Again we don't need to do that to make this successful but that's something that I think you should just look for really over the coming years as opposed to anything within the next 12 months or 18 months.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Sure.
Thank you.
And our final question will come from the line of Rick Wise with Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Good afternoon everybody.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Rick.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> A little more on Lutonix.
You highlighted John the AV access BTK In-Stent Restenosis indications that are coming up.
Just can you give us some color on the indication opportunity is it 50% bigger? Is it double the current opportunity you're tackling? What are we looking  what are you looking at? Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Well I think if we look the SFA if you kind of look in that broad category I think the SFA is a big part of the overall market opportunity.
I think below the knee is  I'm not the marketing guy so I'm looking at John Weiland here.
But I think it's 20% 30% of the SFA opportunity AV access kind of in that same ballpark.
So certainly significant incremental opportunities.
But the SFA probably makes up about half of the overall  maybe a little more than half of the overall opportunity.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think the other thing to think about Rick is that after a little bit over a year into this now physicians now are getting to the point that have started using DCPs on some of their patients they're not only looking at the data they're looking at the fact that patients aren't coming back for re-intervention.
And as patients don't come back for re-interventions they get great confidence in using the device on more and more and more patients in the future.
And I think we'd like that in combination with the real life data that's coming out on our product and the fact that we're generating those kinds of results with 50% less drug on than other players in the space in the United States right now.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Yeah.
I think just to add a little bit to that I think physicians are still sort of figuring out what's the right treatment paradigm and how do they optimize the outcomes for their patients.
And so we certainly hear in our interaction with customers that the DCB gives them an important tool in the toolbox but exactly how they combine that with other therapies is still sort of underdevelopment.
So as John said there's a lot of work going on out there and I think there's a lot of penetration opportunities still ahead of us.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah thank you.
And just one last one just the 100 basis point cost reduction benefits that we saw just remind me again where that came from? And how sustainable that is is there more to come out of that magnitude in 2016 I just wasn't clear on that point? Thanks again.
Yeah.
Sure Rick.
And John referenced that being a real core strength of the company and actually within our guidance for 2016 we're projecting 80 basis points to 100 basis points of incremental benefit from all the initiatives that our manufacturing and sourcing teams will be undertaking in the course of 2016.
So that is something that we believe does have a long runway.
It's not easy but our guys are superb at doing it and they delivered in 2015 and they're telling us and we're expecting them to deliver similar magnitude in 2016.
I think the unfortunate thing is with what FX has been doing and in price as well that's been mitigating a lot of that benefit.
So if we can get some of those headwinds to shift or to be a little more benign you'll really see I think the power of what our operating  our operations and sourcing teams are delivering year in and year out.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And Rick I would think about it as almost half being operating efficiencies in terms of cost savings in our plants and production at about 50% on sourcing initiatives that are reducing raw material costs into our plants.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
Thank you again.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You bet.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
This does conclude our Q&amp;A session.
I would like to turn the call back over to Bard's management for closing or additional comments.
Great.
Thank you.
I'd like to thank all of you for joining us here today and I'd also like to take this opportunity as I always do to thank Bard employees around the world for their dedication commitment and very strong execution throughout 2015.
We look forward to catching up with all of you again after the first quarter.
Have a good evening.
Thank you.
And that does conclude our conference for today.
Thanks again for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Services.
You may now disconnect.