Good day everyone and welcome to the Vonage Holding Corporation First quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
This is just a reminder today’s call is being recorded at this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Leslie Arena Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ms.
Arena.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Speaking on our call this morning will be Marc Lefar Chief Executive Officer and Barry Rowan CFO and Chief Administrative Officer.
Marc will discuss the company’s progress and strategic direction and Barry will discuss our financial results.
Slides for that accompany Barry’s discussion are available on the Investor Relations website.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks we will be happy to take your questions.
As referenced on slide two I would like to remind everyone that statements made during this call that are not historical facts or information may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These and all forward-looking statements are based on management’s current beliefs and expectations and depend on assumption or data that may be incorrect or imprecise.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
More information about those risks and uncertainties is highlighted on the second page of the slides and contained in Vonage’s SEC filings.
We caution listeners not to rely unduly on forward-looking statements and we disclaim any intent or obligation to update them.
During this call we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to comparable GAAP measures is available on the Investor Relations website.
And now I will turn the call over to Marc.
Thank you Leslie and good morning everyone.
I’m pleased to report the financial and operating performance delivered in 2010 continued in the first quarter of 2011.
We generated record high EBITDA of $43 million grew net income improved gross line additions posted positive net adds and prepaid $20 million of our debt.
Last week we launched Vonage World Premium an up sell service to the original Vonage World and we expect to introduce two new mobile products during the spring and summer months.
We’ve now reported record high positive EBITDA in 13 of the last 14 quarters.
Our performance in the first quarter was driven both by higher revenue per user and continuing efficiencies across our business.
The combination of strong operating performance and reduced interest expense from our recent debt refinancing resulted in record high net income of $21 million or $0.10 per share which is up 51% from $14 million or $0.07 a year ago.
Our strong cash flow enabled us to prepay $20 million of debt at par and we expect to prepay an additional $30 million before year end which will result in nearly $5 million in annualized interest expense savings.
These prepayments are incremental to our scheduled amortization payments and Barry will provide additional details when he speaks.
Gross line additions or GLAs increased steadily during the year and we are up 13% from a year ago to $175 000 on roughly flat marketing investment.
As a result customer acquisition cost per line or SLAC fell to $282 the first time SLAC has below $300 since the fourth quarter of 2009.
With more than 1 million subscribers or 43% of our base on Vonage World we are making steady progress penetrating international calling segments.
Our increased marketing focus on Hispanic segment where we provide in language sales and service drove an increase in account starts for the second consecutive quarter.
Asian Indian subscriber continue to be a loyal and growing portion of our business and growth in Canada continued with GLA increases sequentially and versus the year ago period.
Our launch of an unlimited plan for the Philippines drove strong press attention however the retail price of $64.99 made necessary by unusually high termination rates has proven to be barrier to broad adoption.
We are considering alternative offers to address the ongoing needs of this heavy calling segment.
While marketing yield improved net line additions of 3000 were bit lower than in the fourth quarter as churn ticked by 10 basis points to 2.5%.
The slight increase was due to higher earlier life churn of no contract customers.
Our mix of ethnic segments and the one time impact of removing four countries from Vonage World.
We anticipated minor pressures from these factors and we continuously evaluate the impact of offers and promotions on churn making changes if necessary.
On balance our strong financial results and progress growing the number of international callers in our customer base provides a solid foundation for driving cash flow and funding our planned investment in new products and services.
The recent launch of Vonage World Premium which delivers against the largely unmet needs of customers calling internationally to mobile phones in many countries appears to be gaining traction in our existing base.
The results of email up-sell campaigns immediately upon launch are exceeding our early exceptions.
It is still too early to evaluate the impact on new sales as advertising has just started airing.
As I mentioned earlier we plan to launch two new mobile services in the coming months the first is a unique international long distance service for standalone mobile users it will be available in more than 75 countries immediately upon launch.
And we believe that it will the absolute most convenient way for customers to avoid high carrier charges.
The second new product will be an enhanced to our core Vonage World Service that will extend the utility of our home service plans to multiple phone numbers and devices including most mobiles.
With the launch of this extension service Vonage will offer both savings and convenience to customers regardless of device or location as an integral part of our basic service.
Not only will this provide a revenue opportunity through usage in our existing base but we believe this will improve the overall value proposition for prospects as well.
As we look to the balance of the year our financial outlook has improved.
We expect to achieve EBITDA of at least $165 million.
Recent improvements in ARPU and structural changes in cost have given us more confidence in the full year results.
While we continue to expect higher gross line additions for the full year versus 2010 advertising cost which are seasonally much higher in the second quarter may lead to lower marketing yield putting some pressure on gross line additions.
As we continue to expect churn to be relative stable with 2010 level with perhaps a modest impact from selective price increases we plan to implement in the coming months.
While there is still much work to be done our results clearly demonstrate that the major elements or turnaround are now behind us.
I’m pleased with the company’s solid financial and operating performance and we are working diligently against the execution of our strategies to drive growth in the quarters ahead.
And I’ll hand the call to Barry.
Thanks Mark I’m pleased to review our first quarter financial and operating results with you.
As Marc highlighted we reported a solid financial quarter as we generated record high EBITDA of $43 million as strong cash flow based on ongoing operational improvement and expense management.
We reduce selling general and administrative expense to a record low percent of revenue lead by continued improvements in customer care cost per line which declined 9% from the prior year.
We reported our fourth consecutive quarter of increasing gross line additions with continued progress penetrating international calling segments with Vonage World.
Reflecting the strong performance free cash flow of $30 million increased $10 million sequentially as we produce record high net income aided impart by lower interest expense following our successful debt restructuring last year.
Continuing with the balance sheet improvements begin in 2010 we are utilizing our cash flow to further reduce our level of debt specifically we prepaid $20 million of debt at par which will reduce annual interest expense by additional $2 million.
We expect to prepay at least an additional $30 million by year end bringing total voluntary prepayments to $50 million.
Combined with $20 million of scheduled amortization payments these results in a total debt pay down of $70 million in 2011.
As a result we expect term debt to be less than a $130 million at the end of 2011.
These planned debt reduction would reduce cash interest expense by $22 million in 2011 and at least $27 million in 2012 from the 2010 levels.
The resulting cash interest expense would be $42 million 20 million and $15 million for 2010 2011 and 2012 respectively.
These reductions in interest expense would have a corresponding positive impact on basic EPS of $0.10 per share in 2011 and $0.12 in 2012.
Let’s walk through the details of this quarter’s financial performance.
Beginning with slide 3 adjusted EBITDA of $43 million increased 9% from the prior year as we achieved the 20% EBITDA margins for the first time in the company’s history.
Sequentially EBITDA increased 6% as a result of higher service ARPU associated with Vonage World and through continued operating efficiencies.
We have opportunities to drive further structural cost reduction and expect strong ARPU during the second half of the year.
Based on these expectations we are raising our EBITDA expectation for the year from our previous guidance of more than $156 million we earned in 2010 to at least $165 million for 2011.
Moving to slide 4 we reported net income of $21 million or $0.10 per share up 51% from net income of $14 million or $0.07 per share in the first quarter of 2010 and up from a net loss of $42 million or $0.19 sequentially.
Note the fourth quarter of 2010 included $58 million in adjustment related to our debt refinancing.
Excluding these adjustments the company increased net income by more than $8 million sequentially with $4 million the gain resulting from interest expense savings.
This marks the eighth consecutive quarter that we have achieved positive net income excluding adjustments.
On slide 5 total revenue for the quarter increased to $220 million from $218 million sequentially reflecting our continued progress penetrating the international long distance calling market.
Revenue declined $8 million from $228 million in the year ago quarter primarily due to a $6 million reduction in deferred revenues related to legacy activation fees.
As a reminder this adjustment is not impact to EBITDA.
Quarterly telephony services was $218 million an increase of 2% sequentially helped by the higher number of Vonage World subscribers.
We now have a more than a million subscribers or 43% of our base on this plan.
These customers have an attractive lifetime value and more than half of Vonage World customers are international long distance callers who churn out lower rates than domestic callers.
Aided by the mix of Vonage World subscribers the first quarter average revenue per user or ARPU increased to its highest level in three quarters.
In the first quarter service ARPU increased 2% sequentially to $30.23 due to mix improvements lower bad debt expense and higher universal service fees which are a pass through.
Service ARPU declined from $30.90 in the prior year primarily due to reduced legacy activation fees and lower termination fees due to no contract plans.
Moving to slide 6 during the quarter we added 175 000 gross lines an increase of 13% from the prior year and up 5% sequentially.
This was driven by further progress penetrating the US Hispanic market and GLA growth in Canada.
Subscriber line acquisition cost or SLAC improved 11% to $282 down from $318 a year ago.
This marks the lowest SLAC in five quarters reflecting continued improvements in the efficiencies of our marketing spend.
Monthly churn declined to 2.5% from 2.6% in the prior year due to lower churn profile of certain international calling segments and improvements in the overall customer experience.
On a sequential basis churn increased 10 basis points as Marc mentioned we saw a negative impact in early life churn from the two potential negative factors we mentioned on our last earnings call.
The impact of the no contract offer and higher churn rates associated with some ethnic calling segments the slight uptick was also influenced by some one time actions such as removing the four countries from our Vonage World plan that didn’t meet our profitability goals.
Our higher gross line additions combined with slightly higher churn resulted in 3000 net additions in the first quarter.
This was our second sequential quarter of modest net lines growth.
Let me take this opportunity to highlight the importance of managing our business based on appropriate economically driven matrices as our business evolves.
In the quarters ahead we expect to shift our emphasis away from matrices such as gross and net line additions that may lead to optimization of individual measures at the expense of overall company value.
The introduction of new products sold as add-ons to existing plans and a wider ranging ARPU associated with new mobile products for example make these historical measures less meaningful.
We plan to emphasis growth and revenues EBITDA and free cash flow supported by a clear focus on subscriber economics as these new products become a larger portion of our portfolio.
Please turn to slide 7 where we will begin our discussion of our COTS structure.
COTS has been a good news story over the past several quarters.
Total COTS declined to $60 million from $62 million in the year ago quarter driven by lower domestic termination rates and usage which more than offset the expected increase in international termination cost from higher number of international callers.
We continue to reduce non termination cost within this expense category.
As I mentioned on last quarters call our consolidation of E91 vendors that will drive $4 million in savings this year some of which we have already seen in the first quarter.
On a per line basis COTS declined to $8.34 from $8.60 in the prior year and rose from $8.06 sequentially due to an increase in USF [ph] which is a pass through.
Excluding the impact of USF COTS declined 2% driven by lower domestic termination and other telephony service cost.
Cost of goods sold declined $6 million from the prior year to $11 million due to lower device cost as well as the reduction due to the accounting impact of legacy activation fees which are amortized over the life of the customer.
In the past year we have lowered the cost of our devices by more than 25% to $30 and we expect to reduce device cost further by year end.
Reflecting the strength in ARPU and reduction in COTS total direct margins rose to 68% up from 65% in the prior year.
This matches the 68% level achieved in the fourth quarter of last year.
Moving to slide 8 we reduced SG&amp;A to $58 million an all-time low of 26.5% of revenue from $61 million in the year ago quarter and down from $59 million sequentially.
A substantial portion of this savings has come through improvements in our customer care operations.
Care cost per line declined 9% from the year ago quarter as we lowered the number of calls into our care centers due to an improved customer experience combined with reducing the average channel time spend with customers who need our assistance.
Moving to slide 9 marketing expense was $49 million down slightly from $50 million sequentially and flat from the prior year.
While our total marketing spend has remained roughly flat for the past two years we continue to shift our marketing mix within this overall spend level.
These shifts are toward our targeted international long distance calling segments and to the media channels that most effectively reach these customers.
As Marc mentioned the second quarter tends to be a season of higher media cost.
We expect that this factor in combination with a traditional slower April will put some pressure on continued quarterly GLA growth during this quarter.
Moving to slide 10 CapEx in the first quarter was $5 million down from $16 million in the fourth quarter which reflected some higher year end capital spending.
For the full year 2011 we expect CapEx to come in at or below the low end of the $40 to $45 million range we had previously set.
The majority of this investment is to support the development of new products and services improve the customer experience and drive structural cost reduction in customer care and COTS.
Strong operational results and lower CapEx resulted in $10 million in free cash flow defined as operating cash flow less CapEx to $13 million.
As we discussed on our last earnings call working capital is typically negative in the first quarter due to the timing of certain payments.
In addition we paid approximately $5 million in ESCROW during the first quarter to fund the cost associated with the previously announced settlement of the consumer class action.
While the combination of these factors resulted in the use of $19 million during the quarter we expect working capital to approximately neutral for the year.
We maintained our strong cash position with cash and cash equivalents as of March 31st of $87 million including $7 million in restricted cash associated with the lease on our building.
Based on our strengthened operations we can continually improving balance sheet and our $885 million NOL carry forward Vonage is now generating meaningful cash flow.
With EBITDA expected to be at least $165 million cash interest expense of $20 million CapEx of approximately $40 million plus the $8 million annual payment for patent license and a modest $2 million in alternative minimum taxes our expected 2011 net cash flow is approaching $100 million.
Moving to slide 11 as I mentioned we prepaid $20 million of our term debt at par with $10 million paid at the end of the first quarter and an additional $10 million paid early in the second quarter.
This prepayment will reduce annual interest expense by $2 million assuming constant LIBOR and combined with our scheduled amortization payment of $5 million for the first quarter reduced the balance of our term debt from $200 million as of the end of last year to $175 million currently.
Looking ahead the combination of at least $15 million in expected total prepayment during the year and $20 million in scheduled amortization will result in term debt below $130 million at the end of 2011.
These prepayments represent the first phase of our two part strategy to improve our balance sheet.
In addition to these prepayments we will seek to refinance our existing debt at rates below the current 9.75% level as those options become available to us.
In summary we are pleased with a solid first quarter to start the year.
Thank you again for your interest in Vonage and I’ll now turn the call back over to Leslie to initiate the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Barry operator please open the line for questions.
Hi thanks for taking my questions.
Good morning just two questions for you first could you get a little bit more specific on the change in USF sequentially just to understand what happen to more of the customer revenue.
The second question that I had was can you help us put in perspective the size of the market that you are going after so you are now selling to more locations more geographic more customer segment and gross adds went up about 8000 sequentially 20000 year-over-year.
And can you help us conceptualize like you know improvement in productivity relative to the size of the market that you are going after.
The final question that I had was on churn? And on the churn front if you look at the overall churn rate whether sequentially or year-over-year let’s just call plus or minus flat but you now got half your customers on Vonage World which has lower churn than the other customers.
So what’s happening in the numbers is it that the churn from the non-World customers are going up.
Is the churn for the World customers going up but you are still below the customers can you just help us take through those mechanics.
Thanks very much.
Mike it’s Marc.
Let me take your second question first in terms of size of market and then can move down the funnel to churn and USF.
So from a size of market as we’ve discussed before the international long distance market is sizable we are looking at 12% frequent users of the US in any given month we call frequent users those who use more than 20 minutes a month.
In terms of global scale you are talking about a market that is the US market well in excess of $17 billion a year globally it is orders of magnitude we estimate it to be four to five times larger than that.
So relative to the overall market opportunity our growth is very small or we have a very small market share and there remains significant additional opportunity.
What we learned in proprietary market research is despite popular belief the vast majority of customers more than 60% still make their international long distance calls directly through their mobile phone or their wire line phone paying very high carrier rates.
We believe we’ve improved applications and reach into those device either by extending to those customer either by extending our Vonage home phone service penetration to new segment or by extending it to additional device mobile specifically and making that a more convenient experience through smart phones.
We can increase share and we have virtual limitless up side opportunity on a global basis.
And Mike let me respond to you the other two questions are specifically regarding USF fees they increased $0.40 from the fourth quarter to the first quarter from $2.07 to $2.47 which in aggregate about a $3 million increase sequentially.
And with regard to your question on churn let me take that apart for you a little bit if I can yes churn is a basically flat with last year’s overall level of 2.4%.
There are a couple of drivers there one is as you mentioned the impact of Vonage World now being over 40% of our base but it’s important to point out that approximately half and nearly half of the Vonage World customers use the product for domestic only.
So the real spilt in the churn drivers has less to do with specifically the rate plan being Vonage World versus others and more to do with whether customers are meaningful ILD users or not.
So those customers that use ILD extensively recap at more than 20 minutes per month and that represent about 25% of our base.
So those customers churn at lower rate than the overall domestic user base so that’s the first point is that the ILD user continue to churn at lower rates than other users.
The other factor in this is that and we mentioned this on the last call we introduced the no contract offer starting in the fourth quarter of last year as the churn had come down.
We became comfortable with that we knew going into that experienced that the impact of no contract offer is you expect to have higher churn in the earlier life of the customers because what happens under a contract is that you will get a modest spike in churn in the first month or two then it’s fairly steady state churn through month 12 and then you see churn spike as people come off contract in month 13 to 15.
So with our no contract offer the profile of churn changes so that you have and would expect to have a little higher churn in the early months relative to what you would have on a contract.
So we continue to evaluate those offers in the market and we will continue to make adjustments as appropriate going forward.
Mike let add to the comment and these revenues give you the specific number.
I think I might have misstated the US number the US ILD international long distance revenue is $19 billion with global ILD revenues we estimate to be $80 billion.
So obviously still a small fraction for those markets in which we’ve already entered and as we’ve talked in prior calls the market for international roaming as well as for messaging services our markets were they are equally as large $70 billion on international roaming and about that plus a bit more on SMS.
But obviously we have yet to materially enter those markets but you could expect that in coming quarters.
Thanks very much.
Next question operator.
Hey thanks yeah I guess on USF for a second the – it had an impact on cost [inaudible] I guess do you see that repeating in the second or third quarter or how long will that last.
We expect it basically to be flat Mike I mean it tends to be a little bit lumpy but on balance flat a little ironed in the first quarter but of course we can’t predict because it’s set on a quarter by quarter basis but as we look forward we wouldn’t expect a dramatic shift from where things have been.
I guess it looks like your [inaudible] services were didn’t trend up too much despite more international revenue not factoring in that USF function.
So I guess are you efforts in that regard continuing do you see the cost plus new services per line continuing to be flat or do they grow a little bit? Yes to a point Mike we actually saw the cost of telephony service come down from Q4 to Q1 if you take out the impact of the USF increase so we’ve been very pleased with the progress we made there.
In 2010 the real progress on COTS was on lowering termination rates as you know where we were able to take termination rates down by 25% in 2010.
There is still some more room to grow there but there is also room on the domestic side as we look to implement next generation call routing for example.
So we would expect to see in the back end of the year assuming continuing penetration of ILD segment that’s going to drive COTS overall but it will certainly be mitigated recently substantially by the improvement we continue to make on especially on the US side during this year.
In terms of the growth adds what percent of those are signing off as Vonage World and then also I guess what percent are using ILD because ILD I think it’s being 25% of the base now for a few quarters.
So about 80% of the gross adds from Vonage World and a little over half of those are ILD users.
So it increased it was about 40% of the base as of the end of the year and it’s up to about 43% as of the end of the first quarter.
And I believe on the last earnings call you had discussed second half of the year expecting some revenue more significant revenue growth let say.
I believe do you still expect that and what will be the top two drivers of that.
So we’ve not changed our guidance around new products and services beginning to impact revenues in a meaningful way in the back half of the year.
We’ve launched some new products recently including the Vonage World Premium that I mentioned in my call as well as eminent launches of additional mobile services that we believe can help grow the topline.
In addition to that we are seeing up sell in revenue migration for existing base.
We are managing our existing base into improved ARPU is contributing to top line growth in the back half as well.
Lastly as we’ve done has been our practice in past years we’ve been very efficient at surgically implementing price increases where the value proposition we are providing is exceptional and there is a not a lot of competitive alternatives.
We expect to take some pricing actions that will have some impact in the back half of the year and then obviously full year 2012 as well.
It sounds like I know you might emphasize certain methods more than kind of other going forward but sounds like this would revenue would show up more in a ARPU function as opposed to a material change in kind of growth as from earlier? I think you would expect to see a mix I think you expect see certainly we expect that ARPU will be stable and modestly growing.
We also expect to be able to grow absolute revenues either subscriber lines or simply paid per use as might be the case in some kind of mobile application where it’s not an ongoing recurring service contribute to top line.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks next question operator.
Yes good morning guys the quarter looked pretty good.
I have questions about the Spanish product that you guys recently launched.
Can you give us a little bit more of an update as to how well that’s doing and where you expect that to go and how big you think that opportunity could be considering that kind of redundant business platform you have established.
So let me make sure I’m clarifying for you our Hispanic efforts have really been increasing over the past year.
We started in the spring of last year simply targeting that group having identified them as a under serve segment both from a standpoint of international long distance services but also to how basic telephony service has been marketed to them.
During the course of the year we build out essentially an end to end Spanish language experience that included sales and service.
Sales being our inbound telemarketing environment as well as online portal and then service both online as well as customer service in language that combined with a shift to very specific marketing efforts not just the Spanish speakers but the Spanish speakers with varying specific countries of origin helped us to grow the number of Spanish language orders in the fourth quarter to record levels.
We’ve continued to accelerate that business and we have with the addition of the Vonage World Premium product which just launched in last week and half it’s very early days but we’ve included some additional Spanish language countries and South American countries which were not included in the original Vonage World.
Beyond that there are far more mobile destination that are included.
As you may be aware the price to call to mobile phones internationally is a tiered service for almost all carriers.
Mobile termination being more expensive and we think there is enormous opportunity there to meet the needs of folks who are calling to mobile phones in other countries.
The world premium product we expect to deliver against that but it’s way too early to be able to think about the overall impact and gross adds for the year.
But the early progress has been encouraging and we have seen some early response to Hispanic advertising that launched just a week ago almost immediately after turning it on.
Okay great and then had a few questions about the balance sheet financial engineering I mean it seems as though you mentioned that you are looking at your debt and right now you are only levered pro forma year end its about little about one time.
It shouldn’t be reasonable given your cash [inaudible] to this company and the visibility of that even if you didn’t grow subscribers at all.
I’m just curious as to what the company thinks is a reasonable debt level you can handle because it looks like you could handle two to two and half times and then possibly refinancing your debt.
It have to rate your pay because you are getting tax rate from the interest rate you are paying because of your NOL you could generate significant – you have significant free cash flow from operations and the refinancing of debt.
It seems like that would make a lot of sense and then repurchasing share could take the stock materially north of where it is and more fairly valued because the capital structure still isn’t close to optimal.
Just from what I see I’m just curious if you could comment a little on that and I know you made a little comment at the end of your presentation but a little more clarity as to what you think is an optimal leverage ratio would be what could this company handle what cost to debt and would buybacks make sense at some point given your operational free cash flow as well potential increase in leverage.
Let me start by laying out the way we think about this sequentially and as I mentioned in the formal remarks during the course of this year our strategy is first to prepay the debt out of cash flow we think that’s a very good use of cash given that we are paying 9.75% interest currently.
We obviously were able to cut the interest rate by approximately half through the refinance so that’s the first priority and that’s why you see us explaining that we plan to continue those prepayments.
In addition we do think there will be opportunities to refinance the debt with continued and sustained financial performance certainly from my previous slide as we are able to do that as the company is successfully improved the performance and we expect that to be the case here.
So we will be actively looking at the opportunities to do that and we will certainly be taking advantage of those as they come available.
I think in terms of the priorities of the cash going forward it would be – really in this order prepay the debt secondly is we do think that there are potential opportunities to continue through acquisitions to enhance the value of the company so we would look at that.
And then certainly we would consider at the right time returning value to shareholders through but more likely a stock buyback than a dividend.
We have not announced any plans along those lines; I think it’s early to be thinking about that currently.
But that’s how we think about the priorities of the cash flow.
In terms of the overall targeted leverage ratio for the company certainly we could sustain lot more debt than we have currently when we did the refinancing we made a decision not to leverage up the company as we go forward and go through the course of this year.
We will look at what that is but at this point we are not prepared to target what that could be but certainly understand the impacts of that kind of financial engineering on the equity value.
Great because it seems like your cost of equity your cost to debt are pretty close to parity right now.
And your equity is on a little higher it seems use your cash if you are going to really generate $100 million in free cash flow almost this year and going forward with some growth.
What seems like you are going to start stockpiling cash I don’t know how you are going to fund acquisition so the question is what else would you do with it? Do you see a big acquisition on the horizon or you just stockpile the cash and then go from there.
We think about it I think as the year unfolds for example as we look at it now with the level of debt that we have at 9.75% interest that’s a very good use of cash flow during the course of this year because you get nearly 10% arbitrage differential there.
As we go throughout the course of the year make the planned debt pay downs continue to evaluate other options I think we would look at this holistically in terms of what made sense – in terms of what made sense in terms of an optimal capital structure and what those other options might be.
So we haven’t had the ability frankly to look at acquisition under our previous debt was highly restricted essentially precluded acquisition so that is at least an opportunity that becomes available to us can actually.
Maybe I can add a little more tops into that so we clearly as expect as we look out over 2 to 3 year time horizon that organic only growth in a technology environment is not something that is likely to occur.
We are currently in the process of evaluating acquisition prospectus and the lens through which we look at that is really can we actually acquire technology we are not so interested in buying revenues but technology or concepts are beginning to get traction potentially those have intellectual property or strong technology engineering human resources attached to it.
It’s a great way to be able to scale the business and there is obviously tremendous demand for mobile application developers and engineering so we are consistently on the lookout there.
We look at this again primarily to enhance the new product and service areas of the business and accelerate growth there and you can think about them as relatively modest acquisitions in terms of overall size because we are not out there trying to buy huge revenue streams.
Great and just wanted to follow up on that which I think in terms of acquisitions given where your stock is now would you be more likely to use your stock as your currency or would you use cash.
I think we would just have to evaluate it on the facts and circumstance of the time.
Okay fair enough.
Thank you very much.
Next question operator.
Good morning I was wondering if you could just repeat the value proposition for the two new products that you are talking about today.
I couldn’t keep up with your – they both sounded excellent but I just was wondering if you could just repeat the value proposition.
Sure and I’ll apologize to the group in advance for competitive reason until we are actually launching I’m not giving all the specific details but to give you the general space so you could understand how they fit within the overall context so the first is a standalone mobile application for smart phones it address international long distance market and we intend to launch that in over 75 countries simultaneously.
It is one that has global reapplication and we think it solves some of the very basic problems about initially establishing service that you are paying for on a mobile phone as well as the way you use it and how fast you can up and running.
We think it will be the most convenient way to simply dial an international long distance numbers from anywhere to virtually anywhere and we will be able to see that in the coming couple of months.
The second product is one that is enhancement to the core Vonage Home phone service offering.
You can think about it as an extension like product the notion being people our consumers are telling us all the time that they want to be able to take advantage of the Vonage rate plan the relation that they have with us directly now and extend that benefit to other device.
And we don’t care where people are sitting or which device they are on and it really actually that core Vonage service to work on mobile devices or other wired phones and to register multiple devices and have that charged to the same account is an improvement value proposition.
The way we are planning to structure that we think it will give us increased usage as there is more availability and access to ILDs if you more phones to our base so there is an ARPU enhancement that we expect over time will be delivered and we also believe that the overall value proposition for our home phone service which is traditionally you have to have the home phone that’s the only place to get to use it.
We will be positioned very differently because now you be able to apply for a service plan that you can use on multiple devices your home your mobile phone your office phone and get the benefit of the Vonage value proposition across multiple devices no matter where you are so that’s the second of those products which will follow the first one.
And this is follow up in terms of the SG&amp;A build for the balance of the year does this fit within the build or are we are going to see a revision to that on the back of this new introductions.
I think we would be able to accommodate those within the guidance that we’ve given.
Okay thank you very much.
Next question operator.
Hi guys just one question that you addressed a little bit but given the churn kicked up a little bit because of the no contract which makes total sense.
I’m just curious as you roll out these two new products and everything else I’m holding too many things but what are you think about how we should look at churn on a full year basis in going forward.
Obviously it’s going to be higher when you don’t have any contracts but I’m just curious different modeling purpose.
What would be a good range or number for us to look at long term? Let me that we maintain our guidance that we believe it’s going to be roughly flat versus 2010 you might get occasional peaks and valleys during the course of the year.
But based on our current visibility and trends that’s what we expect in terms of new products that we are launching I should clarify that standalone mobile offering doesn’t require Vonage home phone service.
We wouldn’t expect that to have any impact on churn and since it is going to be a product that is not require an ongoing subscription you will see that as revenues we wouldn’t report specific ongoing subscriber lines or churns associated with the products could be a revenue stream.
Vonage extension we would expect that those customers to take it with certainly at a lower churn profile.
It increase the utility that they see more poor service and obviously without having the launched it yet we don’t know what the profile of new subscribers would be.
Okay so it just fair to keep it kind of flat that is what you are expecting based on what you know now that’s safe.
I think as Marc point out really essentially stable churn there are some puts and takes going both directions but [inaudible] I think we did mention – so I think we had a one timer this quarter where we had some countries that we took out of the Vonage World plan that weren’t meeting financial objectives.
We from time to time do that pricing actions can occasionally change monthly churn trajectory so I would encourage you to keep a range up and down.
It’s very difficult to have visibility quarter to quarter beyond the ranges that we have experienced in the last couple of quarters.
Sure and then one last question you did mention how later in the year as new products you might increase prices in some markets in some areas.
Can you give us some kind of sense as to degree or magnitude of what kind of price increase you are thinking or 5% 10% and is it across all your products or is it just Vonage World.
How should we look at that? Until we announce I’m not going to give specifics on the price changes.
Historically when we’ve done this we have done it that are on ranges below 10% so we look at this at the balance of what is opportunistic.
We do it in a way that we are obviously attempting to avoid churn and resell the value proposition relative to competitive alternatives.
So there is always risk when you take some level of pricing but we have been in this movie before and have successfully implemented that and the kind of increases we are contemplating are similar where they were before and there are in places where consumers are getting significant value today and we think there is not a lot of alternatives to go to.
We have time for the last question operator.
Hi thanks just two follow up can you give us a sense in terms of service revenue what’s not coming from the home replacement market your traditional subscriber business if you look at what’s coming from the mobile and the application side of the company.
Thanks.
It really hasn’t changed appreciatory from where it has been Mike.
We have said in prior quarters that it was at a run rate just below about $10 million annually so as Marc pointed out in process of introducing some of the new products that will begin to take hold in the back half of the year so that’s where it is currently.
Okay thank you very much.
Okay operator this will conclude the call.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day everyone and welcome to the Vonage Holding’s Corporation Second Quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Just as a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Leslie Arena Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ms.
Arena.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Speaking on our call this morning will be Marc Lefar Chief Executive Officer and Barry Rowan CFO and Chief Administrative Officer.
Marc will discuss the company’s progress new product enhancements and growth initiatives.
Barry will discuss our debt refinancing in detail and review our financial results.
Slides that accompany Barry’s discussion are available on the Investor Relations website.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks we will be happy to take your questions.
As referenced on slide two I would like to remind everyone that statements made during this call that are not historical facts or information may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These and all forward-looking statements are based on management’s current beliefs and expectations and depend on assumptions or data that may be incorrect or imprecise.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
More information about those risks and uncertainties is highlighted on the second page of the slides and contained in Vonage’s SEC filings.
We caution listeners not to rely unduly on forward-looking statements and disclaim any intent or obligation to update them.
During this call we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to comparable GAAP measures is available on the IR website.
And now I will turn the call over to Marc.
Thank you Leslie and good morning everyone.
In addition to posting another quarter of record high earnings Vonage achieved several major milestones in the past week including the introduction of two new products the announcement of significant new distribution partners and the refinancing of our debt at an interest rate below 4%.
Let me start with the product headlines.
In the early morning hours we launched our second new product in as many weeks.
Time to Call a stand-alone mobile application for iPhone was released in 87 countries.
Time to Call allows customers to purchase a call and talk for up to 15 minutes to landlines and mobile phones in 100 countries for $0.99 or $1.99 billed instantly through iTunes it is absolutely the easiest way to make low cost international calls on the go.
And to promote this introduction around the globe we are providing a free international call to everyone that downloads the application.
This introduction follows last week’s launch of Vonage extensions which allows U.S.
customers to extend their existing calling plan to any phone including cell phones.
In addition to these new product launches we have also expanded the availability of our core service for distribution agreements with TracFone Best Buy Kmart and Sears.
I will provide more details on our new products and our distribution expansion in a few moments.
But first let me spend some time reviewing our debt refinancing and second quarter results.
During the course of the year we successfully executed on our two-part strategy to first prepay and then refinance our debt.
By the end of June we have reduced our debt balance to $130 million.
And today we announced that for the second time in eight months we have refinanced our debt at substantially improved rates and terms.
Our new debt includes an $85 million three-year term loan and a $35 million revolver with interest at less than 4%.
The combination of less debt and a significantly reduced interest rate lowers our annual interest expense to approximately $6 million.
The cumulative effect of our two refinancing is dramatic resulting in approximately $43 million in annual interest expense savings or $0.19 per share.
As a point of reference it was less than a year ago that we were paying 16% and 20% interest rates on debt that we put in place during the credit crisis.
Today our new rates are less than one-fourth of those levels.
This refinancing is clear evidence of the transformation of Vonage.
Our financial results for the second quarter were strong.
We achieved record net income of $22 million or $0.10 per share a record high EBITDA of $44 million and positive free cash flow of $37 million.
This marks the 14<sup>th</sup> quarter out of the last 15 in which the company posted record high EBITDA and it is our sixth consecutive quarter of positive free cash flow.
On relatively flat revenue we achieved the EBITDA gains through operational improvements in most categories with the largest gains coming from SG&amp;A and cost of telephony services.
SG&amp;A declined 4% in the prior year driven largely by a double digit reduction in customer care cost per line.
Importantly we continue to reduce customer care costs while improving service levels as measured by first call resolution average handle time and customer satisfaction.
In addition we reduced cost of telephony services by 8% over the prior year more than offsetting the costs from our increasing base of Vonage World subscribers.
The reduction in costs was driven by lower termination rates both internationally and domestically and through vendor consolidation of the E911 services.
Although we increased our marketing investment by $3 million or 6% sequentially the increase was not enough to offset nearly 20% increase in market place pricing for television media which was accompanied by very limited inventory availability.
While the second quarter is an historically expensive quarter the number of advertisers coming back into the market place along with audience ratings made goods led to an even tighter market than we anticipated.
As a result our media rates were lower than planned which negatively affected gross line additions.
GLAs of 158 000 coupled with flat sequential churn resulted in the loss of 11 000 lines for the period.
Although media price remains higher than in the first quarter we have seen more reasonable pricing and inventory availability in the third quarter thus far.
While second quarter net additions were below our expectations we are encouraged by our continued progress attracting international callers to Vonage World our unlimited flat rate calling plan.
Vonage World subscribers now represent 45% of our base and have driven the 8% increase in gross line additions for the first half of the year.
With the improved value proposition of extensions the impact of new advertising airing in the next few days and expanded distribution we expect GLAs to increase from the second quarter level.
For the full year 2011 we expect GLAs to be higher than 2010.
As I mentioned we are expanding our reach by significantly increasing our retail presence and through selective distribution agreements.
We have recently signed new distribution agreements with Best Buy Kmart and Sears.
These agreements build on our existing distribution with Wal-Mart Fry’s and Micro Center.
Over the next few months we will double of retail footprint to 6 000 locations with our focus on international calling segments and the Latino market; we believe these partners are a great strategic fit.
We also announced yesterday morning that we have entered into a distribution agreement with TracFone as the largest provider of prepaid cellular services in the country with 18 million subscribers including the TracFone Straight Talk Net10 brands TracFone will further add to our marketing presence by promoting a unique Vonage home phone service offer through cobranded fulfillment channels directly to its user base.
Working jointly with TracFone we will test different marketing vehicles and messaging in the coming weeks.
In addition to our partnership and retail agreements during the past six months we have increased the number of community based sales teams who sell Vonage services directly to consumers from 4 to 30.
Although they currently contribute a small portion of total gross line additions these teams have delivered strong results in ethnic calling segments and now sell in 18 markets in 10 states.
Our expanded distribution is direct evidence of the first plank of our three-part growth strategy to drive market share in the U.S.
for international long distance.
The second plank of our strategy is to meet the emerging needs of mobile and connected device users and the third as we have talked in the past is geographic expansion.
The launch of extensions which is now a core element of our service improves our value proposition by extending Vonage service beyond the walls of the home to any other phone including mobile for no additional cost.
Extensions is clear evidence of our strategy to meet emerging mobile needs and to improve our share of the U.S.
international long distance market.
Now when you sign up for Vonage service you can use your international calling plan virtually anywhere.
We believe that this will be a loyalty builder for our base and we expect the prospects who simply couldn’t get over the hurdle of spending $25 each month for a home only service will reconsider.
Although only one week into the release of this new service 75 000 customers have already registered to use extensions.
Advertising direct mail and digital marketing efforts are just beginning this week to prospects.
In several weeks we will announce the availability of additional extensions for a monthly recurring fee as well as iPhone and Android applications that enable one-touch calling.
Time to Call which some members of the press are already referring to as an international pay phone that you can carry with you launched in 87 countries early this morning.
Supporting our strategies for both mobile and international expansion Time to Call is the first downloadable app that allows pay per call international dialing.
It’s by far the easiest international calling application available.
Unlike other apps there are no requests for usernames passwords or any personal information.
We don’t change the price if you call to a mobile phone and there are no hidden charges or recurring commitments or subscriptions.
This combined with direct billing in iTunes makes the service truly frictionless and the value is exceptional.
To support the launch of Time to Call everyone that downloads the app in all 87 countries will receive a free international call so they can try it out.
The service is available on WiFi globally and on 3G in the U.S.
and Canada.
Global expansion of 3G will be on a country-by-country basis and an Android application is in the works.
In the coming months and throughout 2012 you can expect additional enhancements these products and new service launches that continue to support our growth strategies.
In summary we are pleased to report another quarter of solid progress at Vonage.
We refinanced our debt at very attractive terms.
We achieved a record high net income and EBITDA.
We executed on our mobile and international growth strategies with the introduction of two exciting new products.
And while it may take some time to build momentum in our new distribution outlets they will combined with our improved value proposition help to drive customer additions going forward.
As we look to the balance of the year we are on track to deliver higher gross line additions in 2011 than in 2010 and continue to expect churn to be relatively stable in the mid 2% range.
We continue to focus on driving operational and cost improvements and we reiterate our guidance of achieving EBITDA of at least $165 million in 2011 with our growth initiatives beginning to contribute meaningfully to revenue by the end of the year.
And now I will hand the call off to Barry.
Thank you Marc and let me add my thanks to each of you for joining our call this morning.
I am pleased to review the terms of our refinancing and second quarter results with you.
First we are thrilled to have closed on our second debt refinancing in 8 months at extremely attractive pricing and terms.
The new $120 million credit facility carries a current interest rate of LIBOR plus 3.5% that is pre-payable at no cost and provides ample flexibility to operate the business.
As Marc mentioned through a combination of these two refinancing we will have reduced our interest expense from $49 million in 2010 to $6 million annually from this point forward which equates to roughly $0.19 in earnings per share.
This is a significant achievement made possible by the strong performance of our underlying business.
We also reported another quarter of strong financial results.
We achieved a record-high net income including adjustments more than doubling it over the prior year and generated record high EBITDA.
We accomplished these results even as we increased our marketing spend to offset seasonally higher advertising cost preparing for the launch of two new products and absorbed the higher international termination cost associated with an increase in Vonage World subscribers.
We also benefited from sharply lower interest expense following last December’s debt refinancing.
The strong financial performance of our core business provides a solid foundation on which we can build our future.
Beginning on slide 3 let me now run through the details of the refinancing.
As most of you know fixing the balance sheet has been a top priority over the past year.
The process began in 2010 with a focus on replacing our high cost restructuring debt put in place back in 2008.
Bad debt carried interest rates of 16% and 20% contained highly restricted financial and operating covenants and was highly complex including three liens and a convertible feature.
In 2010 we paid out $41 million of bad debt (Inaudible) negotiated the release of more than $40 million in cash from vendors and just this past December announced a comprehensive refinancing.
December’s refinancing resulted in a $200 million pre-payable term loan with interest rates at 9.75%.
While this was an enormous improvement we were committed to driving further interest rate savings through our two part strategy of paying down the existing debt ahead of schedule and seeking improved financing terms based on our sustained financial performance.
In March of this year we began aggressively pre-paying the $200 million loan.
And by June have paid off $70 million including $10 million of scheduled amortization.
This reduced our term loan balance to $130 million a level we have targeted to achieve by the end of this year.
Our sustained operating performance combined with this lower level of aggregate debt enabled us to access the commercial bank market in the second refinancing.
The new $120 million facility includes an $85 million three-year term loan and a $35 million revolver.
The prior $130 million debt was retired by using $30 million of cash from our balance sheet plus the $85 million in proceeds from the term loan and $15 million drawn from the revolver.
The interest rate on our new debt is LIBOR plus 350 basis points initially dropping to LIBOR plus 325 basis points.
The total leverage is less than 0.75 times which we expect to be at when we report third quarter results.
At current liable rates this reflects a decline of more than 600 basis points from the 9.75% rate in the previous debt.
Through this combination of lower debt and significant reduced interest rates our annual interest expense is now projected to be $6 million at constant LIBOR rates.
Importantly the loan also provides us with the flexibility to pursue a range of financial strategies in the future.
Let me highlight just two of these areas.
First the facility provides access to additional debt with a $35 million revolver a permitted basket of up to $60 million of credit facility debt and an accordion feature that increases the credit facility debt basket dollar-for-dollar as we pay down the new term loan.
Second unlimited stock buybacks are permitted and the facility provided a total leverage less than 1.25 times.
We are pleased with this financing provided by high quality group of banks led by JPMorgan.
Let's now move to the discussion of the financial results for the quarter.
Turning to slide 4 net income excluding adjustments more than doubled up a 114% from the year ago quarter drawing from $12 million to $25 million.
This significant improvement was driven by a 28% increase in income from operation up $7 million and more than 50% reduction in interest expense as we saved $7 million over the prior year.
Slide 5 indicates that our record EBITDA of $44 million was up 8% from the prior year and 1% sequentially.
As Marc mentioned we have now reported record high EBITDA in 14 of the last 15 quarters.
Moving to slide 6 revenue declined to an amount of $2 million or 1% sequentially than $7 million from the prior year due to a $3 million reduction in deferred acquisition costs and the accounting for legacy activation fees which did not impact EBITDA.
In addition customer equipment and shipping revenues declined $3 million reflecting the company's decision to no longer charge these fees to customers.
Service ARPU declined sequentially from $30.14 from $30.23 as gains from our improved customer mix were offset by the decline in non-operating revenues including activation fees and slightly lower USF.
Service ARPU declined from $30.71 in the prior year primarily to the previously mentioned accounting impact associated with the elimination of activation fees and lower USF.
Turning to slide 7 we are ahead of plans and reducing cost of telephony services or COTS one of the largest components of our cost structure.
Domestic COTS declined by 42% from the year ago quarter and the consolidation of our E911 vendors which we referred to on prior calls resulted in more than a $1 million reduction from the second quarter of last year.
These declines coupled with continued reductions in international long distance termination rates more than offset the anticipated growth in ILD minutes.
As a result we reduced total cost to $58 million from $63 million in the year ago quarter.
On a per line basis COTS declined to 8% to $8.03 from $8.72 a year ago and $8.34 sequentially.
Looking towards the back end of the year we expect COTS to increase due to the impact of higher international calling related to Vonage extensions.
As Marc mentioned this new product substantially is increasing the value proposition to all customers as they would be able to make international calls from either their landline or their mobile phones.
We expect a portion of these COTS increases to be offset as we continue to implement structural cost reduction resulting from my investment in next generation call routing infrastructure and peering.
Cost of goods sold declined $4 million from the prior year due to lower device cost and activation fees.
We have reduced device costs to under $30 from $40 in less than two years and expect a reduced cost by another 10% by year end.
These savings along with lower costs improved direct margin to 69% up from 66% a year ago and 68% sequentially.
Moving to slide 8 our focus on driving efficiency led to further reductions in SG&amp;A which declined to $58 million.
This was down 4% from the second quarter of 2010 largely driven by improvements in customer care which were reduced by 10% per line over the prior year.
Please turn to slide 9.
As we discussed on our last quarter's earnings call the second quarter is a seasonally high cost quarter for advertising.
Although we increased margin expenses by 6% or $3 million our media rates were still below those of the prior quarter as our higher spend did not really offset the increased cost of advertising.
Gross line additions increased 2% from the second quarter of last year reflecting our progress in inquiring customers in international calling segments.
While we made sequential progress penetrating certain ethnic calling segments we were unable to fully offset the impacts of higher advertising costs and as a result we reported a decline in sequential gross line additions to 158 000 from 175 000.
While we anticipated pressure on GLAs we were disappointed that we were unable to maintain the sequential growth in GLAs that we have delivered in the three preceding quarters.
The resulting comp of customer acquisition was $330 up from $318 a year ago and $282 sequentially.
While the residual impacts from higher second quarter advertising costs and a generally tight advertising market will have some impact on acquisitions in the third quarter we still expect higher gross line additions for the full year 2011 versus 2010 as the impact from new products and expanded distribution take hold.
Moving to slide 10 as expected churn was flat sequentially at 2.5% but is influenced by a combination of positive and negative factors.
On the positive side we continue to benefit from the impact of the lower churn of certain international calling segments and high customer satisfaction.
On the other hand there is upward pressure on churn from the transition to new contract offers and higher early life churn in certain international calling segments.
Taking these factors into consideration we continue to expect churn to be relatively stable at the mid 2% level for the second half of 2011.
This combination of growth and lower gross line addition and stable churn resulted in a net line loss of 11 000 lines in the quarter.
On slide 11 let’s now move to a discussion of our CapEx and cash flow.
As we discussed on prior calls our strong cash flow is enhanced by a low CapEx requirement which then held to less than 5% of revenue.
The majority of our capital expenditures are for investments in information technology and systems infrastructure and not for ongoing maintenance.
This investment contributes meaningfully to our ongoing structural cost reduction in COTS and customer care as well as enhancing the overall experience for our customers.
For the quarter CapEx was $9 million up from $5 million in the first quarter of the year.
For the full year we expect CapEx to be below $40 million.
Vonage’s business model is now delivering on its promise to generate substantial free cash flow.
We are achieving 20% EBITDA margin a dramatically reduced interest expense maintain low CapEx and had $885 million from net operating loss carry forwards that can be used to offset future income.
Based on the $165 million in EBITDA we have guided to for 2011 we expect to generate over a $100 million in free cash flow for the year.
We also have ample liquidity to operate the business.
As of June 30<sup>th</sup> cash and cash equivalents including restricted cash was $70 million with $7 million restricted cash associated with the lease on our building.
We used $30 million in cash from the balance sheet to retire our previous debt as part of the refinancing leaving us with approximately $40 million of cash on the balance sheet and $20 million in end ramp revolver at closing.
We believe that this level of cash combined with the anticipated cash flow generation and the unused portion of our revolver provide us with sufficient liquidity to meet our needs.
In summary this marked another quarter of solid progress both strategically and financially for Vonage.
We introduced two exciting new products extending our value proposition by extending Vonage’s strong international calling capability to mobile phones.
We more than doubled net income excluding adjustments from a year ago.
While we would have liked to have continued our straying of increasing customer additions we expanded our distribution reach doubling our number of retail phones to presence to 6 000.
We have a pristine balance sheet after concluding our second refinancing in eight months.
Taken together these two refinancing have reduced our annual interest expense by more than $40 million adding 5 percentage points to our bottom line margin.
We are pleased with our continued strong financial performance.
Thank you again for your interest in Vonage.
And now I'll turn the call back over to Leslie to initiate the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Barry.
Operator please open the line for questions.
Good morning and thanks for taking my questions.
Just first just trying to bridge the gap to the CapEx guidance it seems like it's been trending lower over the year.
Can you just kind of help us understand where that possible $26 million in additional spending will come from and does that include acquisition and development of software assets? And my second question is even at roughly $40 million of CapEx it seems like on run rate you guys can generate in excess of $0.50 per share in cash.
Is there any direction in what’s that going to go to now that you are at some sustainable debt service cost per year? Thanks for your question.
Let me take those in order.
First regarding the CapEx guidance as you may recall coming into the year we offered guidance of $40 million to $45 million for the full year 2011.
On the last call we certainly keep close tabs on CapEx.
About three-fourths of our CapEx spend is for investment about 25% for maintenance.
So the investments we are making in CapEx are important to driving the business.
They do help in the structural cost reduction as I mentioned.
So kind of the call routing the rate to deal with that we expect to drive meaningful improvements in the comp telephony service in the back end of this year 2012.
For example we have comprehended in the CapEx the Amdocs implementation; a new billing system is also included in that.
So we are certainly mindful of CapEx have strived to bring that down during the course of the year which we are able to do but we do expect it to ramp modestly during the back half of the year that would bring it in lower than $40 million.
There still is some as we continue to see in the CapEx for other things that we will see how that plays out for the backend of the year.
Regarding the cash flow for the year certainly this refinancing is going to help that if you look at the 9.75% interest rate that we were paying on $130 million debt level but we had brought the debt down to by the end of last quarter that translates into roughly $30 million in expense going forward.
We see the interest expense as we mentioned about $6 million on a go-forward basis so when we talked about over $100 million in cash flow that does comprehend the impact of the refinancing and we have also said that we expect working capital to be basically neutral during the course of the year it was negative in the first quarter due to anticipated seasonality it was positive in the second quarter so that’s how you arrive at that net cash flow for the year.
Thank you.
I think although we are going to see the direction going forward on a run rate basis the use of that cash being generated.
And I’m sorry just a follow up from before.
Could you also give like a nominal dollar value in terms of the maintenance CapEx going forward? Yes the nominal dollar value is in the $10 million to $15 million level that’s about a fourth of the overall CapEx.
And the use of cash going forward certainly previously it was to pay down debt at the higher interest rates of 10% now that we have interest rates that are effectively at 3% and 3.75% stepping down to 3.5% with LIBOR at 25 basis points the three-month LIBOR there is less arbitrage on the interest so we have flexibility now for the usage of cash going forward that we could do acquisition as they become appropriate.
We could do share repurchases if that becomes appropriate as I mentioned but we have the ability to stop repurchasing as long as the total leverage is less than 1.25 times.
So we have those options available to us now that are provided for I think well within the current credit facility.
Next question operator.
Thanks.
Great quarter and congratulations on the debt refinancing.
Marc you mentioned about a 20% increase in market place pricing in the quarter you still got to maybe more reasonable pricing in the third quarter I mean are we going to see that down 20% again or is it down a couple of percentage points what kind of pricing change do you think you will see in this quarter? Hey Mike.
Good to hear from you.
Yes the second quarter as folks who follow the markets know is historically a high price market place but usually in that 8% to 10% range.
We at least believe that at that point in time there is a recovery I’m not sure how people are viewing it today that a lot of advertisers came back into the market place that was compounded by viewership which continues to be fragmented by other media so you have a lot of people who bought in a fixed market place who are getting under delivered weight based upon the original buy so obviously all that media weight goes to make goods and for folks like us who spend a fair bit of our money in the direct response market which is kind of a week-by-week month-by-month market things got very tight very quickly.
Seasonable pricing went up; availability of good media was sketchy.
The 20% I referred to tends to be more in the general media market.
Hispanic was up in the mid teens not quite that high.
What we are seeing in the third quarter is about as forecast about half of those rates so about a 10% higher cost than what was in the first quarter which is consistent with what our expectations were coming in.
So in terms of market in the expense profile you could expect two things one that we will probably spend a little bit more than we did in the first quarter.
I don’t expect that we will spend as much as we did in the second and you should expect meaningfully better gross add yield for the dollars we do spend in the third quarter.
Great thanks.
And then as it relates to churn you talked about some few segments of an early life churn in certain segments occurring what segments would those be in? So there are really two things and I want to make sure that we clarify this; it’s the biggest driver of kind of that stabilized churn.
You got the benefit of international customers that have lower churn profile than our domestic and that can be used to grow as a percentage of our base.
The bigger offset is the move to no contracts which obviously the longer we are in that we have more and more customers in that base those folks age and they are still within that first 12-month period where you are going to have higher churns.
The first cohorts will in a couple of months pass that 12-month mark and we expect those curves to start to inverse you would expect that you won’t not see that month 13 and 14 spike that generally comes with contract customers but we are still kind of weathering that headwind of no-contract customers relative to the international segments that have some higher churn profile.
Recall that when we got into the international business the Asian-Indian market was the one that we penetrated most quickly and they have the lowest absolute churn.
We tend to attribute that to their technology savviness the penetration of high quality broadband in their homes and on average a strong economic profile.
As we get deeper into the Hispanic market we see that although there is still significantly lower churn than domestic only customers the Hispanic segment tends to churn higher than the Asian-Indian segment and while it’s certainly lower than our domestic churn and our churn rates a couple of years ago we were in the mid 3% range there is some upward pressure in the mix of international as a result of some of those Hispanic segments.
That makes sense thanks.
And then last question can you talk just a little bit about ARPU or perhaps maybe some directional comment on ARPU or if not maybe the influence that you see in ARPU over the next couple of quarters? Yes.
As we mentioned Mike on the call that ARPU is influenced by a couple of factors where that led to decline some of it was nonoperational.
For example the USF actually declined from the previous quarter and over the prior year USF was $2.39 for example versus $2.47 in the first quarter of this year.
So we saw that impact it was down from a year ago of $2.50 for example so we saw some of the nonoperational impact from that as well as the accounting treatment for legacy activation fees that goes well.
As we look at it going forward we expect relatively stable ARPU.
We did (Inaudible) price increases for our lower level plans and we increased the number of minutes so that will have a modest benefit in the back half of the year but I think we would look relatively stable ARPU going forward.
Alright thanks a lot.
Next question operator.
Hi.
Good morning and thanks for taking the questions.
Just to start off could you give me something I am not sure I heard the percent of ILD or Vonage World in terms of your subscriber base.
Second just curious if there are any stats that you could share with us on the mobile side on how your preexisting applications are going or maybe just any early indications for what you might expect from some of the new products that you have rolled out and then after that maybe I will just come back with a higher level question at the end/ Sure Mike.
Good to hear from you.
On the ILD question I will clarify first though.
The percentage of our customer base that is now on Vonage World is 45% of total subscribers and then the percentage of total subscribers that makes ILD calls with some regularity is 33%.
In terms of the stats on applications there is nothing much changed since we last talked in terms of mobile and other enhanced services; we’ve talked about that being in the sub $10 million range in terms of revenues.
There has not been material additional uptake or losses in those businesses that is material to our overall revenue trajectory.
In terms of the new applications obviously Time to Call just launched in the early morning hours so it’s very difficult to put a number on that.
We are optimistic that the press as well as over the next couple of weeks we have some very interesting approaches to digital and social network use we’ve got hitting over a 150 global bloggers with programs that are designed to build awareness of the application.
So we are hopeful that that will get us meaningful uptake and of course the news which we expect that everybody on this call will help us to get out of making a free international call and being able to experience the quality and the true seamless ease of use of the Time to Call product it will help you over the habit of usage.
It really is incredibly easy to use and tremendous value.
As you know everybody is dazzled in this space including us in the past but it feels just too gosh darn hard to use in terms of understanding what the rates are which country wire line to mobile calls personal information setting up billing relationships it is very complex and at the end of the day the vast majority of international long distance calls are still being made shockingly at prices that are three to four times more expensive than alternates and they are going through the traditional wire line and wireless carriers and that’s going to change it has to change.
There is no reason why people need to pay that level for that pricing.
So we think that we have got a big opportunity here and obviously yet the global scale provides some big top spin for us.
And then the extensions product is completely different.
The extensions product is really a restatement or repositioning of the entire Vonage offering.
Frankly it doesn’t matter to us whether folks even plug in their home box.
This is basically about choice it’s when you buy Vonage service for a rate you get phenomenal pricing for medium to heavy users of international calling domestic calling or InterLATA calling for those folks who still are paying long distance charges.
You get a phenomenal rate using whatever line you want and you can have two of them.
It can be your home phone it can be you office phone it can be a home phone it can be a mobile phone it doesn’t matter to us.
So we think adoption of the mobile download actually we know the adoption of mobile download is going to happen fast we have already in the first week just primarily from our base had over 75 000 people have already registered taken access numbers to use the extensions application and registered their mobile phones.
And we believe that once we are able to get the news out on extensions it will help us from a prospect standpoint as well.
We got a lot of people who are spending $25that gets great value but the people I call are not at home when I’m not in my home when I want to call them and then your time is up.
We still see a lot of people that do have our product that still use mobile and pay carriers to supplement their service so we think there is a real opportunity here to improve our value proposition for prospects as well and you will see that in traditional revenues although I think you can think about that as part of mobile.
It’s going to be hard to separate mobile and traditional these things merge what we are trying to say is we don’t care where you are what device you are using we provide a service of value and you can use it on any device from any number.
So we are optimistic about the potential for this product and I would go on to say by the end of the year and into early next year there is a whole host of enhancements many of which are telegraphed in prior calls international roaming opportunities where inbound calls can be completed as well seamlessly.
We have talked about on-net community and messaging; many of these things if you think about the applications we just launched can be integrated as enhancements and built into these cornerstone products.
So more news coming in the coming months on those fronts.
I should also mention we do have plans in several weeks to add two extensions.
I mentioned it in my script but it’s worth pointing out here.
We will do flat rate additional extension lines for sale into the base as well as our prospects so you can get the one line plus your mobile and then you can add a line that model as you are well aware works extremely in a wireless industry.
And then just Marc taking some of your comments and going back over the last couple of quarters I feel like you have had conviction at the back half of the year which shows significantly better revenue performance than the front half.
Probably the front half for some of the reasons you articulated earlier on the call whether it’s counting or maybe just losing a few thousands subs maybe it’s fair to say that the first half revenue might have been a little bit lighter? Not sure what your internal budgets were.
How do you look at the conviction for the back half revenue growth and are there some bogies that you want to set from an expectations perspective of how to think about the recovery towards revenue growth over time? Thanks.
mid-year will begin to meaningfully contribute to revenues before year-end; we still believe that’s the case.
The impact on the total 2011 year obviously when you start to see that ramp it’s not going to be phenomenal.
We really expect longer term that you will see the annualized and quarterly impact in a material way as a percentage of our total revenues grow and that’s what we have been saying and that continues to be the case.
You are right our first half revenue was a little bit lighter than we would have liked and the product that we are launching would have liked to get out a little bit earlier in the quarter but we are who we are and we want to make sure we have got the products right we feel good about the product mix we have got out there we feel good about the functionality and the sales and marketing programs that are out there we feel good about the distribution that we are expanding and we take all those elements together give us cause to be optimistic about how the year will finish up.
And just one other question for Barry.
There is this proposal out there with the FCC from a bunch of larger telcos about USF and Intercarrier Comp Reform.
One of the bullet points in the proposal which is just out at this point is to qualify VoIP as traffic that counts to take terminating switched access fees any of which started either over SIP comp or interstate rate and reform over five years to a very low $0.0007 rate five years down the road.
Initially if that were to happen in your and I am not sure how you pay termination today but you said a proposal actually became an FCC order and went into implementation.
In the near-term or 2012 or 2013 are there any cost implications that we should be aware of on that? So for those that are not aware let me recap Mike what you are talking about.
Last Friday a group of six large and mid-size telcos including AT&amp;T and Verizon calling themselves America’s Broadband Coalition submitted an FCC proposal for reform and access charges and some of the other Intercarrier Compensation paid by carriers to terminate calls to PSTN customers that happened last week.
As you know Mike as you mentioned we already paid substantial amounts of money to telecom carrier to terminate our off-net calls for both U.S.
landline and mobile telephone numbers.
In our own comments on FCC Intercarrier Compensation Reform we have advocated that the FCC avoid imposing any legacy access charges on VoIP traffic altogether.
The proposal made last Friday did not go as far and wouldn’t provide us with the greatest possible cost savings but to be clear the proposal that we made last Friday out there to be enacted would be savings for us.
Well I don’t we are prepared to give you the specific dollars right now because of the uncertainty of where that proposal will ultimately end up.
It is meaningful dollars in terms of savings and at the $0.0007 it is substantial savings to cost for us.
So we stand to benefit from the proposal.
However we still believe and maintain in our comments via FCC that it is not going far enough we support a bill-and-keep approach.
And so Marc just to clarify.
So it starts off at I think at either Intercarrier over SIP comp rates just I think kind of like a $0.01 something like that right or I think $0.0007 somewhere between there right now.
So initially is it kind of neutral because you paid today and then over time it is the savings or even initially is it savings for you? Mike I will have to follow-up and get back to you with this once I get the details of the proposal but as we assessed it initially it looked it was a long-term clearly favorable and even in the short-term I don’t think there was any material impact to us relative to our current rates but you are referring to numbers that sound higher than what my recollection was.
So let me go back and maybe we can talk offline about the specifics.
That’s great really helpful.
Thank you so much for taking my questions.
Next question operator.
If there are no further questions operator we will conclude the call.
Thank you for joining us today.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day everyone and welcome to the Vonage Holdings Corporation third quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Just as a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Leslie Arena Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ms.
Arena.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Speaking on our call this morning will be Marc Lefar Chief Executive Officer and Barry Rowan CFO and Chief Administrative Officer.
Marc will discuss the company’s progress and strategy and Barry will review our financial results.
Slides that accompany Barry’s discussion are available on the Investor Relations website.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks we will be happy to take your questions.
As referenced on slide two I would like to remind everyone that statements made during this call that are not historical facts or information may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These and all forward-looking statements are based on management’s current beliefs and expectations and depend on assumptions or data that may be incorrect or imprecise.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
More information about those risks and uncertainties is highlighted on the second page of the slides and contained in our SEC filings.
We caution listeners not to rely unduly on forward-looking statements and disclaim any intent or obligation to update them.
During this call we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to comparable GAAP measures is available on the Investor Relations website.
And now I will turn the call over to Marc.
Thank you Leslie and good morning everyone.
This quarter we took another step forward in transforming our business beyond traditional home phone service.
The two new mobile products we launched during the quarter are striking a chord with consumers seeking easy to use low cost mobile solutions for their international communication needs.
Approximately 400 000 customers have either registered their mobile phone as an extension to their Vonage World plan or downloaded our time to call app since we launched these products just three months ago.
<br>We are delivering on our promise to enable communications from any broadband connected device as we integrate the landline and mobile experience for our customers.
We will build on this progress as we launch new products in the coming year.
At the same time we are strengthening our core business.
We increased gross line additions 8% in the second quarter and improved our efficiency in acquiring new customers lowering acquisition cost 9% from the seasonally higher cost second quarter.
We continue to add customers on Vonage World enabling enabled by our growing success whether outsourced paid for performance even teams and broader retail distribution.
50% of our customer base is now on the Vonage World plan.
A testament to our core business financial results for the quarter were strong we tripled net income excluding adjustments from a year ago and for the fourth consecutive quarter EBITDA exceeded $40 million.
Revenues grew a modest 1% in the prior year while we generated free cash flow of $34 million fueled by strong operating results low CapEx and dramatically lower interest expense.
I would now like to review our results in more detail and the I will provide a recap of our strategy and our outlook.
We reported another strong quarter with year-over-year gains in net income and EBITDA.
As I mentioned net income excluding adjustments tripled from $8 million in the third quarter last year to $24 million.
This is our 10<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter of positive net income excluding adjustments.
Net income has been driven in large part by the two debt refinancing we completed in the past year building on our strong sustained operational and financial performance.
Through these refinancing we reduced interest rates from highs of 20% a year ago to less than 4% today.
We’ve saved $22 million in interest expense year-to-date and we will save $30 million by year end.
This represents a 59% reduction in interest expense over 2010 and the full year savings in 2012 will be roughly $43 million.
We generated EBITDA of $40 million during the quarter and are on track to achieve our guidance of at least $165 million in EBTIDA for the year.
This will mark our fourth consecutive year of record high positive EBITDA.
Gross line additions were also strong this quarter increasing 8% sequentially to 170 000 and GLAs were up 7% for the first three quarters of the year compared to 2010.
We also improved the efficiency of our marketing spend from historically high cost second quarter as subscriber line acquisition cost or SLAC was down 9% sequentially to $300.
Our expanded distribution is beginning to have an impact as we’ve doubled the number of distribution outlets with the recent addition of Best Buy Kmart and Sears combined with our existing partners we now have distribution agreements to sell our services in 6000 stores across the country.
In store merchandizing and training continued throughout the quarter and we are seeing solid growth in the stores that have fully executed our programs.
We have expanded our feet on the street event teams which now operate in 16 states with high ethnic concentrations including California Texas Florida and New York.
As reflected by our expanded distribution network third party retail is becoming an increasingly important component of our customer acquisition strategy.
Including our even team’s retail is now driving 15% of gross line additions this is up from 8% in the beginning of the year and we expect that to increase to 20% in coming quarters.
Importantly retail is also a highly efficient acquisition channel with direct SLAC in the low $200 range.
Although the numbers are not yet material we also launched our initial marketing trials of track phone as planned.
Although gross line additions increased churn of 2.7% was slightly higher than expected due to the full year impact and no contract policy along with higher churn in our Spanish speaking segments.
This higher churn offset most of the gains in GLAs resulting in net line losses of 9000 for the quarter a slight improvement from the 11000 lines lost in the second quarter.
Looking to the fourth quarter we expect churn to be stable to lower sequentially.
Over the longer term we expect stable churn in the mid 2% range.
As many of you will recall we eliminated contracts just over a year ago based on the significant churn reductions we had achieved during the prior year and with the belief that the service agreements were a barrier to acquisition.
Although this lead to slightly higher churn for no contract customers during the first 12 months we expect to see improvements in churn in months 13 to 15 as we will no longer experience the churn spike customarily associated with the expiration of contracts.
After assessing the trade offs of our no contract policy over the past year we are planning to re-implement contracts in a more sophisticated way rather than implement contracts across the board we will provide customers with a consistent low flat monthly rate when they purchase without a contract and a better rate and or promotional offer in exchange for signing and annual agreement.
We expect to implement these changes in the coming months.
Now let me shift to a discussion of our strategy and our plans for continuing to execute against our key growth initiatives.
While our strategy direction has not changed we’ve done considerable work in recent months to refine and operationalize our strategy it’s built on three primary planks as we’ve outlined on previous calls.
One solidifying our core business two meeting the emerging needs of mobile and other connected device users and three geographic expansion beyond the U.S.
Canada and UK.
Let me briefly describe each of these strategies and our plans to execute on them.
We’ve stabilized our core business and its generating significant cash flow.
The major strategic shift in our core business began two years ago with the introduction of Vonage World and an emphasize on international long distance callers.
With the introduction of extensions this quarter we have greatly enhanced our value proportion once again as our customers can now use our existing Vonage World plan to call from their home office or mobile phones.
As I mentioned we also began aggressively expanding our retail presence in the second half of 2011.
To further take advantage of our value proportion we will also extend our product line opportunistically into adjacent areas such as small office home office marketplace.
These customers’ needs are very similar to those of our core consumers and they will buy through many of the same channels.
We expect to increase our focus on these customers in the first half of 2012.
As the second plank in our growth strategy mobile is a clear priority consumers globally are shifting their communications to mobile devices and we are meeting their needs through Extensions and Time to Call.
Extensions meets the emerging needs of mobile users and provides value and convenient to international long distance callers.
Early response to Extensions has been strong 100s of 1000s of customers in our ILD caller base have registered an Extension and 97% of these Extensions have been added through mobile phones.
More than 70% of those registered are active callers.
We are clearly striking the chord with customers who increasingly prefer to dial internationally on mobile.
Approximately 30% of users minutes have shifted to Extensions in the first three months since introduction and overall usage is up only modestly.
Customers clearly value the ability to use Vonage service on mobile devices.
We believe Extensions will ultimately lower churn in our high value ILD customer segments.
Building on this early success we recently launched Extensions apps for Android and iPhones that greatly simplify ease of use.
Time to Call and its future evolutions support our strategies for both mobile and international expansion.
Time to Call has been downloaded in 85 different countries and provides calling to 190 countries highlighting the appeal of this product far beyond the U.S.
Time to Call has recently be named a finalist for the 2011 Mobile Excellence Awards for Best Mobile Application for Utility or Business.
The Mobile Excellence Awards honor excellence in mobile technology and celebrate business innovation.
We are pleased that Time to Call was considered among the best.
Looking ahead our international mobile product plans included additional Extension capabilities mobile stand alone products and a variety of calling plans targeting country specific callers.
In 2012 we plan to bring these services together to provide an integrated communications experience that will include free apps to have calling and messaging along with traditional off net international long distance services and new roaming solutions.
The third plank of our growth strategy is geographic expansion.
This represents a significant opportunity the global consumer communication market outside of North America is estimated at $320 billion and it’s growing at nearly 7% annually.
Shift in technologies economic development and changing government regulation are opening the door for new entrants to disrupt existing markets that are characterized by high price voice and messaging services.
Over the next year we expect to offer a range of mobile and international voice and messaging services outside of the U.S.
We expect most of this growth to occur through partnerships and we are active in discussions with several prospective partners.
Let me describe three examples of the kinds of products we may offer.
First is something we might call International Friends and Family through agreements with partners who also provide consumer services we could mutually extend free or highly discounted international calling to our combined customer bases.
Think of it as a virtual on net calling plan.
Second other companies have expressed interest in having us provide voice services that they can add to their bundle of video and internet access and third we believe there are opportunities to partner with local companies to develop communication key ups placed in high traffic locations for people to make inexpensive calls in developing markets.
This is not the similar from the wide array of internet cut key ups that are emerging all over the globe.
We are pursuing a range of options in partners and hope to be in a position to announce our first partnership agreements in the next several months.
Let me now address our outlook for the year.
With a stable core business strong cash flow and a pristine balance sheet we believe we are well positioned to address the significant market opportunities we’ve targeted.
We are pleased to report strong net income EBITDA and cash flow performance this quarter.
And looking ahead we continue to expect achieve adjusted EBITDA of at least $165 million and we are on track to deliver to a higher growth line additions in 2011 than in 2010.
We continue to believe in the attractiveness of the strategic markets we’ve identified as the foundation of our growth initiatives including international long distance mobile and international expansion opportunities.
And we will continue to invest in these areas.
<br>While we are encouraged by early results from product launches distribution gains and international business development activities our revenues are ramping more slowly than originally anticipated.
The revenue ramp from these initiatives are delayed by several months and is expected to more favorably impact results in 2012.
We expect churn to be stable to lower than the third quarter levels and expect full year churn or 2.6%.
Although we anticipate additional progress in the fourth quarter it’s unlikely to be sufficient to offset year-to-date net line results consequently 2011 net line additions are likely to be slightly negative.
We expect that capital expenditures will now exceed $40 million and we are on track to generate at least $105 million at free cash flow for the full year.
We look forward to sharing greater detail on our 2012 plans during our next quarterly call and now I will turn the call over to Barry and thank you again for your interest in Vonage.
Thanks Marc and good morning everyone.
I’m pleased to review our third quarter results with you.
We reported another quarter of strong financial results and are on track to deliver record high net income and EBTIDA for the year.
Our free cash flow continues to grow enhanced by our recent refinancing with significant savings in interest expense.
We are on track to generate more than $105 million or $0.47 per share in free cash flow during 2011.
Our expanded retail distribution channels including event teams are driving higher and more efficient customer acquisitions.
Importantly we have begun to shift our business beyond the home phone to mobile with a brief introduction of new mobile products and applications.
And as Marc discussed we are taking meaningful steps to grow our business outside of North America.
Let’s now move to a discussion of the financial results for the quarter.
Turning to slide three net income excluding adjustment tripled to $24 million or $0.11 per share from $8 million or $0.04 per share in the prior year.
This improvement was driven by a 38% increase in income from operations to $27 million and a 75% or $9 million reduction in interest expense reflecting the positive impact of our debt refinancing.
Net income excluding adjustments was essentially flat from $25 million or $0.11 per share sequentially.
We reported GAAP net income of $16 million or $0.07 per share up from a loss of $55 million or $0.26 in the year ago quarter which included $60 million in one-time charges.
GAAP net income was down from $22 million or $0.10 sequentially.
The sequential decline was due to an $8 million charge related to the early extinguishment of debt associated with our July refinancing.
This charge represents the final accounting adjustment related to our previous refinancing.
Effective cost management and operating efficiencies led to our fourth consecutive quarter of EBITDA at or above $40 million.
EBTIDA increased 15% from the prior year to $40 million on modestly higher revenue and lower direct cost.
EBITDA declined sequentially from $44 million reflecting the impact of higher international calling related to Vonage World and Vonage Extensions and increased cost associated with acquiring more customers during the quarter.
We continue to expect to generate at least $165 million in EBITDA for the full year.
Moving to slide five revenue increased $2 million or 1% from the prior year to $217 million from improvements in customer mix as we added more customers on our Vonage World plan and higher Universal Service Fees.
These positive impacts more than offset nearly $3 million revenue decrease associated with the decline in legacy activation fees which do not impact EBITDA.
Revenue declined slightly from $218 million sequentially primarily due to an increase in service credits and rebates as we added more customers through our lower cost retail channels.
Average revenue per user or ARPU for telephony services increased to $30.06 from $29.45 in the prior year primarily due to improved customer mix and lower bad debt.
Service ARPU declined less than 1% sequentially from $30.14 on modestly higher credits and rebates.
Turning to slide six we continue to focus aggressively on reducing Cost of Telephony Services or COTS one of our largest expense items.
In spite of higher international call volume we were able to modestly reduce COTS to $59 million from $60 million in the year ago quarter.
This cost management was led by a 41% decline in domestic termination costs aided in part by lower usage and the consolidation of our E911 vendors.
These improvements coupled with continued reductions in international long distance termination rates more than offset the costs associated with the growth in ILD minutes.
As a result cost declined to $8.25 from $8.36 a year ago on a per line basis.
Sequentially COTS per line increased 3% from $8.03 due to higher international termination costs associated with Vonage World callers.
In the fourth quarter we expect COTS to increase modestly due to the impact of higher international calling related to Vonage Extension.
These increases will be partially offset by savings from structural cost reductions as we implement our next generation call routing infrastructure and puring agreements.
We expect to see meaningful cost benefits from these efforts in 2012 which will offset anticipated continuing growth in ILD minutes next year.
We reduced cost of goods sold by $2 million in the prior year to lower device costs and activation fees.
As mentioned on prior calls we have reduced the cost of our devices to less than $30 a more than 25% reduction from the $40 we were paying two years ago.
These lower device costs along with lower costs improved direct margins to 68% up from 66% a year ago.
Direct margins declined from 69% sequentially as a result of a cost increase we discussed.
Moving to slide seven SG&amp;A of $59 million was flat year-over-year and up $1 million sequentially from the expansion of our third party retailer channels.
These efforts are yielding positive early results that Marc outlined.
New distribution channels and continued effectiveness of our event teams contributed to an 8% sequential increase in gross line additions to 170 000 year-to-date GLAs are up 7% compared to the same period a year ago.
As anticipated we saw some moderation in advertising costs from seasonally higher second quarter prices.
This benefit combined with increased sales from our low cost acquisition channels reduced subscriber line acquisition costs by 9% sequentially to $300 SLAC also improved modestly from the $302 level of a year ago.
Moving to slide nine we experienced upward pressure on churn from a no contract offer increasing churns to 2.7% from 2.5% sequentially.
While churn in some customer segments increased it’s important to note that churn for international long distance callers in most segments remained well below that of domestic callers.
The value proportion provided by Vonage World was a key contributor to this lower international churn.
As Marc discussed after assessing the trade offs of our no contract policy we plan to offer customers the option of taking a contract.
Customers who sign up for a contract will receive a discount from the pricing they would receive without signing a contract.
The combination of higher gross line additions and increased churn resulted in a net line loss of 9000 lines in the quarter a modest improvement of 2000 lines from the second quarter.
We will now move to a discussion of our CapEx and cash flow on slide 10.
As discussed on prior calls our strong cash flow is helped by our low CapEx which we continued to manage to less than 5% of revenue.
Approximately three quarters of our capital expenditures are for investments in information technology and systems infrastructure with the balance dedicated to maintenance capital.
For the quarter CapEx was $12 million up from $9 million sequentially year-to-date CapEx is $25 million and we continue to expect CapEx to be below $40 million for the year.
This is not only stable and generate substantial free cash flow aided by low CapEx and interest expense and substantial NOLs of $885 million.
Free cash flow for the quarter totaled $34 million and is expected to be more than $105 million in 2011 up from our previous expectations of $100 million.
As of September 30 cash and cash equivalents was $63 million including restricted cash of $7 million.
We ended the quarter with a strong balance sheet with total leverage to EBITDA of 0.7 times and net debt of $55 million.
Our strong balance sheet and continued cash generation provided us with substantial flexibility to invest for future growth.
In summary it was a solid financial quarter.
We tripled net income excluding adjustments from the prior year and are on track to deliver record financial results for the full year 2011.
We strengthened our customer base and are enhancing our distribution channels to drive customer additions.
We believe we are taking appropriate steps to stabilize customer churn.
We have also begun the strategic shift to mobile and international expansion and are encouraged by the early response from our customers.
Thank you again for your interest in Vonage.
I will now turn the call back over to Leslie to initiate the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Barry.
Operator please open the line for questions.
Thank you (Operator Instructions) and our first question comes from Mike Latimore with Northland Capital.
Alright thanks a lot.
Good morning.
In terms of I just have a question on churn you know you’ve had a number you’ve had subscribers coming up annual contracts pretty much every quarter over the course of the year.
What did you see that was maybe a little different this quarter around that dynamic? Mike this is Marc.
So this was the quarter in which we actually completed a full 12 months of contracts.
For the entire customer base this point is no longer under a service agreement so what you’ve seen in terms of the tick here is that the cumulative impact of customers from the prior nine months as well as customers now coming up on their 12<sup>th</sup> month that layers into the cumulative impact on churn.
It was slightly higher than we expected and that was combined with what we saw as a tick up in churn among some of our Spanish speaking segments as we’ve talked in prior calls.
We’ve been actually pleased over the last year that our Spanish speaking efforts have not only brought international long distance callers but a fair number of domestic users in the Spanish speaking segment but it basically not talk to by any telco’s in the past.
In addition having a higher than the ILD level of churn we are seeing higher churn among that Spanish domestic customer sub segment we hypothesize some of that might be socio economic issues and current economy issues that may also be a function of understanding of the core offering and what that delivers.
As we look forward to the fourth quarter we feel quite good about stable to lower churn we’ve actually seen evidence now that we are entering the 13<sup>th</sup> to 15<sup>th</sup> month of customers being outside of contract reduction in churn has folks on the call are probably well aware the cycle of contract is one that basically builds up a spike after the initial contracts expires.
And we were no different than that historically because we’ve had customers who have been moving out more steadily throughout the course of the year that pins up contract expiry churn no longer exist and we will get the benefit of that gradually over the next couple of quarters as new cohorts enter their 13<sup>th</sup> to 15<sup>th</sup> month.
So that’s kind of what’s what the churn dynamics are.
How about October has October you’ve seen some evidence on that in the month of October improvement.
In the couple of weeks we actually have seen some evidence of that 13 through 15 month reduction in churn.
And then with regard to the Extensions and Time to Call is that it sounds like that is there revenue associated with that maybe pushed down a little bit and what do you think is the reason for that and what gives you confidence that you might see that improve next year? So the revenue is on both Time to Call and Extensions also relates to the growth we have expected to come a little bit faster from some of the new distribution channels.
The bottom line on Extensions and Time to Call is you’ve got Time to Call free calls that were part of people’s initial promotional offer to get them in so it’s very difficult to think about what that recurring rate will be you got to understand and see what the ongoing habits are that you formed.
And on Extensions we are still pretty early days of this we call that the first Extension is added for free we had significant uptick on that.
We were actually delighted to see a huge amount of shift of usage roughly 30% of people’s total usage moved to mobile very quickly with very modest increase in total minutes actually far less than what we expected in our business case and we are seeing some pay per use revenues that come from that customer base as well.
But we didn’t start doing the third line sales at 499 until late in the quarter.
So it’s still difficult to understand what the safest point will be on that product.
And as it’s true with most new products until you understand the novelty impact it’s difficult to fully appreciate what the long-term revenue impact will be.
And then candidly as we look at some of the other new products and services as well as expansion into international markets we are looking at the timeframe of those and some of those just taken longer than we expected.
New distribution partners including track phone while things are on plan and we are executing it’s just taken longer to get them into marketplace and longer to get the customer response that we expected.
And just last question it sounds like you are spending a little more on SG&amp;A for the successful retail channel does SG&amp;A keep trending up little up as you focus on retail or is this kind of a run rate? Well as you see Mike we have increased marketing at selling modestly couple of million dollars from the first quarter of this year.
So we see that see it being relatively stable in this only that we may increase it modestly but we didn’t have a couple of million dollar increase there in the second or third quarters.
And we are very pleased with the success that we are seeing there so as you know we continually manage the mix of marketing and selling spend and with the success in some of the retail channels that we are describing we will continue to emphasize that but we will them also curve back in some other areas as required.
So we think it’s relatively stable.
Thank you.
Next question operator.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Robert Routh with Phoenix Partners Group.
Yeah good morning guys a good quarter.
Two quick questions.
In your balance sheet how low the debt is in given your cost it’s below 4% from where it was and $105 million of free cash flow expected from $110.
I’m just curious as why the company hasn’t put in place a stock buyback plan as intended for shares.
The equity and leverage that would create given how solid your EBITDA is suppose to be going forward the opportunities that you are talking about.
It just seems like it would make a lot of sense because your cost of equity is off the charts and your cost of debt it’s very low.
So and you are not going to be paying taxes you don’t get a shield from the interest.
Anyway I’m sure it’s just is that something the management would consider or is considering you could do to show the public markets that you feel the shares are undervalued.
Robert thanks for the question.
As we talk in prior quarters we will continuously assess the wisdom and timing of any kind of stock buyback.
But again consistent with our prior comments our objective is primarily growth and as we look at our growth trajectory we are primarily focused on use of cash for potential acquisitions done smartly so those are the things we will be requiring technology people or communities that have a head start in a consumer market that’s consistent with our mobile international growth areas.
So keep in mind that this phenomenon of cash in the balance sheet and the rapid pay down the cash flow potential is relatively new phenomenon for us.
It’s only been several months and we would like to have the opportunity to appropriately evaluate the acquisition opportunity that exists before us.
We think that’s a better approach for shareholder value and sustained growth if we are going to find the right opportunities then at this point in time returning cash directly to shareholders.
But it’s something we continue to assess and we continue to as we get through our evaluation of potential acquisitions.
Great I totally get that I understand just given where your stock is today its down 15% I mean the acquisition would have to have quite a return on capital compared to an investment in your own stock at this level I mean your stock is just 5 or 6 bucks I would get it.
But anybody here that seems like that could be at least a little bit one of the best use of your cash and but I hear you saying I mean I guess the real question if I’m getting is there anything that would prohibit you from buying that stock now if you wanted to is there a need to covenants restricted covenants with your debt or could you put in place a buyback and do that if you decided there was nothing else worth buying in the stockers the best use of your cash.
We do not have any covenants or barriers that prevents from doing that if we decide that was the that’s the way to invest that cash.
Okay great.
And then one follow up on what you said for that acquisition I noticed reading the financials that looks like you had your acquisition of software during the quarter it was like $8.2 million which was at double what it’s been historically just what you guys bought and how that’s going to help you guys going forward.
And then when it comes to the partnerships do you expect to announce I know obviously Canada and the U.S.
and the UK are big markets for now.
Can you give us any senses to what other areas that you take a big growth opportunity for the company that maybe investors are missing where you can really leverage the infrastructure you built? Let me take the first part of that question and Robert then I will turn it over to Marc to handle the other growth opportunities.
On the software side we as you know are in the process we are investing in IT infrastructure as we go along including investing in Amdocs which will be operationalized this year.
So that’s what you saw during this quarter.
As a reminder about a fourth of our CapEx is for maintenance the balance is for infrastructure and IT investment so that get’s reflected in the things we are pointing out.
Okay and in terms of areas of growth to leverage the infrastructure there is really three one of those is international expansion.
So our ability to conduct business outside the U.S.
with partners and others requires that we have different types of building support infrastructures as well as operational support infrastructures that it allows us to conduct business outside of the U.S.
efficiently and be able to do that on a revenue bearing basis.
Many folks who get to these businesses with free models don’t need to actually track what’s happening you actually have to have the OSS BSS to support a revenue bearing model that requires infrastructure so that’s piece one.
Piece two is the ability for us to have flexibility to have very different pricing models including that for mobile as you know we currently have a traditional home phone service business that’s what the original architecture was built for that allows you to with the shipping of an adapter tied to the issuance of the phone number track and manage customers.
We envision a different kind of model where you might have user IDs you might have customers per ID you might have very different billing models and all that being tracked through software.
So the infrastructure to allow us complete flexibility for individual or integrated offerings for mobile is another area that the infrastructure investments will help us.
And third is that which manages our cost structure.
So the ability to provide highly efficient customer service much of which becomes online customer self service as well as simply efficiency for our live representatives to be able to better serve customers to cross sell to up sell and to anticipate what their issues are so we can meet their needs and reduce churn are all areas where we think we can leverage the infrastructure investments we are making.
Okay great.
And just one last question and I will (Inaudible).
Obviously during the quarter I mean you managed to reduce your bad debts your reserve for that.
It seems I just want to know how you managed to do that are you really I know you mentioned a little bit in terms of the contracts at lower price points and with the credit quality I mean how are you successfully be able to do that and do you think that you can squeeze a little bit more out of that going forward as you kind of look at the credit quality of the Vonage consumer.
Robert I made a comment on that.
Just to be clear on the bad debt virtually all of our customers are pay in advance so we don’t encourage the usual kind of bad debt exposure that is characteristic of some customers.
The way it shows up is in the quality of the customers and as that has improved relative to where we were a year ago we have seen some benefit of that that I mentioned on the call.
So how do we continue to manage it we it’s in the acquisition process of the kinds of customer’s that we bring in and monitoring that and monitoring the early life results of those customers as we know we have focused on the static segment over the last year.
So I have been pleased with the opportunity there it’s something that we have to continue to look at particularly for people who are domestic callers as Marc pointed out within that segment.
So it’s something that we actively manage we have a revenue assurance group here that is very capable of that and but we’ve seen that improve relative to where it was a year ago.
Leslie Arena Next question operator.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from William Focal of Maryland.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could give us an update on the progress with getting the Time to Call software on the Android platform and then separately I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about give a little more detail on your network grooming activity and how it phases in in fourth quarter and into next year from the standpoint of does it come in small chunks is it lumpy does it start big and then taper it would be just helpful to understand what your expectations are in terms of that offset to the other cost increases that you had outlined.
Let me take the Time to Call question the Android application was actually launched into the market earlier this quarter and the iPhone app launched several weeks ago.
We’ve had 10s of 1000s of downloads between those two I think we are now in excess of 35000 on iPhone alone just in a couple of weeks to recognize that the Extension service I’m sorry the I’m sorry excuse me just mixed up Extensions with Time to Call.
The Extensions applications have been in both of those stores for Android and iPhone and the results I was just speaking to was for Extensions.
For Time to Call the those products are now available as well where we did have a point in time where we needed to pull those back there was an issue related to Apple and the iPhone store which is riposted addressed and development that is now been addressed.
So you are saying that you have Time to Call on both Apple and on Android now? Android is forth coming.
Okay so that’s my question is do you have a date is that going to be yearend is it going to be next year can you give us a sense when you add the Android capability.
I don’t think we’ve got a firm date on that yet let me check on that and get back with you.
Okay and then network grooming.
Yes let me take that one Bill.
As you know we are continue to make investments in IT infrastructure and that is particularly the case on the domestic side where you saw the domestic cost reduction of 40% this year or termination costs some of that was usage but the lion’s share of that was driving down the domestic costs we see.
That benefit continuing into 2012 and really gaining the lion’s share of that benefit in 2012 so as we are able to move to more of a (Inaudible) type of arrangement up hearing kind of arrangement with our carriers that will enable us continue to drive cost out of the system.
So as we do that the objective is to have the benefit of that infrastructure investment offset substantial portion of the lion’s share of the cost associated with the continuing growth in ILD minutes which as you know is the center piece of our strategy to target our international long distance callers.
Okay and then lastly you mentioned Amdocs can you just sort of generally discuss the key benefits that you feel Amdocs will provide you with.
I think that it entered in a little bit in the bad debt discussion.
But if you could just elaborate a little bit on what you think Amdocs is going to do for you once it gets fired up that would be helpful.
Sure I will take that.
Amdocs really is a complete infrastructure lift from what we had before the original Vonage legacy billing system was based on one macro database upon which most of our applications in production including customer services as well as real time queries and virtually anywhere in the business are banging against that very large database fundamentally built on Oracle technologies.
Amdocs basically provides a completely new approach to billing support services it will change how our customer service and sales activities in the front end pool information for use by front line representatives and it gives us a flexible what we call product catalogue which allow us the ability for new products and services to be implemented much more quickly in a legacy system which required completely new code every time we wanted to enhance the service.
Okay and when do you anticipate having the Amdocs up and running? We expect to stand it up before the end of this year and then really the primary benefits of it won’t encourage until 2012.
Okay thank you very much.
Let me follow up on the Android discussion I apologize for the confusion because we’ve done so much in the Extensions area in the last few weeks.
So we are not going to deploy the current version of Time to Call on Android I alluded to some enhanced services that we expect very early in the next year which is a new evolution of Time to Call that will have enhanced services and features and that’s when we will deploy on the Android platform and again we expect that after the New Year.
Can you give us a sense of what the enhanced features might be? I alluded to some of those I’m not going to go specific for what the launch in January but remember the kinds of things that we are looking to include going forward.
We will have no net free calling communities as well as enhanced international long distance services that are integrated into a sleek application as we look further into the year we also will have messaging services and expect solutions for international roaming.
Great thank you very much.
Operator.
Thank you (Operator Instructions).
There are no further questions operator we will conclude the call.
Thank you for joining us today.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day everyone.
And welcome to the Vonage Holdings Corp.
Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Just as a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Leslie Arena Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ms.
Arena.
Thank you.
Good morning.
And welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2011 earnings conference call.
Speaking on our call this morning will be Marc Lefar Chief Executive Officer; and Barry Rowan CFO.
Marc will discuss the company’s progress and strategy and Barry will review our financial results.
Slides that accompany Barry’s discussion are available on the Investor Relations website.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks we will be happy to take your questions.
As referenced on slide two I would like to remind everyone that statements made during this call that are not historical facts or information may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These and all forward-looking statements are based on management’s current beliefs and expectations and depend on assumptions or data that may be incorrect or imprecise.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
More information about those risks and uncertainties is highlighted on the second page of the slides and contained in our SEC filings.
We caution listeners not to rely unduly on forward-looking statements and disclaim any intent or obligation to update them.
During this call we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to comparable GAAP measures is available on the IR website.
And now I will turn the call over to Marc.
Thank you Leslie.
Before I review our results and provide our outlook for 2012.
I’d like to provide an update on the response we’ve seen to our new Vonage Mobile app which we launched last week.
Vonage Mobile the most exciting product we’ve offered since the launch of our initial VoIP service and continues our heritage of offering innovative products to deliver great value and convenience to customers.
If you have not yet downloaded the app or seen last week’s press release let me take a moment to describe it for you.
Vonage Mobile is a free downloadable application for iPhone and Android that lets users make free high-definition calls and send free texts to all users of the app worldwide.
It works over Wi-Fi 3G and 4G wireless data networks.
When calling people who don’t have the app users get ultra low-cost calling worldwide with pay per-minute rates that are on average 70% less than major mobile carriers and 30% less than Skype.
Vonage Mobile consolidates the best features of our prior applications while adding important functionality better value and improved ease-of-use.
Early interest has been extremely positive.
There have already been over 500 stories published globally and we’ve substantially exceeded our pre-launch expectations of 100 000 downloads in the first week.
Most user reviews have been very favorable.
We plan to release improvements in new features every few weeks.
Vonage Mobile combines the best of free voice and messaging services with exceptional high-definition audio and incredible value for traditional international calling all while using the existing mobile number and address book.
If you haven’t downloaded the app I encourage you to do so and let us know what you think.
The successful development and launch of Vonage Mobile is an emblematic of the strategic and operational progress we’ve made transforming our company.
As we close out one year and begin the next.
I would like to provide some context for where we are and how far we’ve come.
Over the last three years we have completely transformed the operational financial and strategic dimensions of our business.
Operationally we’ve graded -- upgraded systems streamline processes improved the customer experience and stabilized our subscriber base.
Through these efforts we’ve dramatically improved our operating and financial results driving over $200 million in EBITDA improvement while significantly improving customer satisfaction ratings.
A lowering churn from highs of nearly 3.5% will reduce customer losses from 155 000 in 2009 to 30 000 in each of the past two years and operational improvements have enabled us to lower our cost structure to its low level in six years.
Building on our sustained operational performance we completed two comprehensive refinancing in a span of eight months.
Lowering interest rates from a high of 20% to less than 4% and cut our overall debt level by two-thirds saving $43 million in annual interest expense.
Not that long ago our business were unprofitable and burning significant amounts of cash.
In 2011 our business generated nearly $100 million in net income and for the past two years it has generated more than $100 billion in free cash flow.
And the decision to account for our $800 million in net operating losses as a deferred tax asset this quarter reflects our strong profitability and expectations for continuing future income.
Many did not think these results were possible.
Perhaps more settled but equally important shift has been on a strategic front.
In 2009 we identified an opportunity to leverage our technology and position in the domestic home phone market to concentrate on international long distance callers which led to the introduction of Vonage World.
This calling plan is grown into our flagship product representing more than 70% of new customer additions.
Approximately half of our customers are now on the Vonage World plan and approximately 35% of our entire customer base are international long distance callers.
As our emphasis on international callers and sales of Vonage World increased service ARPU grew service ARPU has increased by 9% cumulatively over the three-year period.
In parallel we drove structural cost reduction throughout the company enabling us to absorb the cost of our dramatic growth in international long distance minutes while maintaining direct margins at 68%.
Over the past three years we have lowered international and domestic termination rates by more than 25% reduced customer care costs per line by 29% and cut the cost of our devices by nearly a third.
Together these initiatives helped to improve EBITDA from a nearly $50 million loss in 2007 to a positive $168 million EBITDA during 2011.
While we largely offset general market trends in declining domestic phone service meaningful revenue growth has not materialized as quickly as planned.
For 2011 service revenue at $867 million was basically flat from 2010.
We must do better.
Quality revenue growth is our top priority for 2012.
Allow me to show our plans for executing on that priority.
With the company now in a solid foundation operationally and financially the time is right to accelerate our investment in our key strategic growth initiatives.
In 2012 we will invest in the following areas the heart of our growth strategy.
The first is international long distance.
Where we will continue to penetrate ethnic calling segments and grow subscribers through our retail channels including event teams.
The second mobile services which builds on the Vonage Mobile platform and the third is international expansion as we plan to enter new geographic markets outside North America and the U.K.
These planned investments relate the groundwork for success in new markets as we increase our organizational capacity and launch new services.
We will invest in areas such as product development resources business development talent network enhancements and marketing.
We plan to invest in a range of $5 million to $10 million per quarter above 2011 levels.
Of course we will tightly manage this increased spending with the same financial discipline that’s driven our financial turn around.
A substantial portion of these investments will be success based allowing us to redirect or reduce investment levels if target results are not being achieved.
Reflecting the additional investment and strategic growth initiatives we expect to generate EBITDA of $30 million to $35 million per quarter during 2012 and $100 million to $140 million for the year.
With these initiatives in their early stage of execution it’s too early to predict their level of success.
However we are targeting large markets with a robust technology platform and a well-recognized brand.
We believe these growth initiatives have the potential to achieve over $100 million in annualized revenue within two to three years.
Let me now discuss each of the growth initiatives in little more detail.
We continue to execute on our strategy to penetrate international calling segments and have substantially grown our base of international callers over the past three years.
The success reflects the prioritization of our marketing sales and customer care teams to target and support International callers.
In the past two years we have increased our bilingual support by opening three new sales and service centers.
In 2011 we grew our Hispanic calling base by more than 50% through highly targeted marketing vehicles more relevant messaging and enhanced products.
We continue to have ample runway to grow our international base 10% to 15% of all U.
S.
households are moderate to frequent international callers using a mix of both home and mobile phones.
The majority of these callers are paying three to four times the rate they could be getting from Vonage and the average Hispanic international callers spends $40 to $50 per month on international long distance service.
With Hispanic comprising 16% of the U.
S.
population this large and rapidly growing segment continues to be an attractive opportunity for us.
While the opportunity is significant churn profiles for this segment are higher than other segments partly due to socioeconomic factors.
To help produce churn we are evaluating a range of initiatives including alternate payment vehicle that would allow cash transaction.
In 2011 we significantly expanded our retail distribution through new retail partnerships with Best Buy Kmart and Sears we doubled our store location to 6 000.
We also now have nearly 60 event teams up from six in January of 2011 operating in ethnic concentrated markets across 18 states including California Texas Florida and New York.
These performance base selling teams market and promote Vonage service a Hispanic and Asian-Indian events and community gathering places.
In the fourth quarter retail sales comprised 19% in gross line additions more than double the 8% level of the first quarter.
During the fourth quarter gains in this channel partially offset by softness in other channels resulting in flat sequential growth line additions.
However for the full year growth line additions were up 5% over 2010.
In 2012 we expected sales more expanded in direct channel will grow to more than 20% of gross line additions.
Our focus on mobile builds on our success targeting international long distance callers in the U.
S.
The power of this opportunity comes from leveraging our international long distance experience and termination rates which are among the lowest in the world along with fundamental market trends including increasing global access to broadband networks and Wi-Fi accelerating smartphone penetration and consumer comfort with downloadable applications.
Our mission is to be a leading provider of low-cost communication services connecting people through broadband devices worldwide.
To that end last August we introduced a very successful extensions product which enables Vonage VoIP subscribers to extend calling through mobile phones and now with Vonage Mobile we build on all our previous apps to provide a compelling all in one on-net and off-net voice and messaging service.
With Vonage Extensions and Vonage Mobile we are rapidly establishing the company as a leading provider of quality mobile voice and messaging services.
We’re very pleased with the early success of these products.
Vonage Extensions is clearly struck a chord with customers and now has nearly 500 000 users and Vonage Mobile is off to a great start.
Future releases will integrate MMS a low-cost international roaming capability and/or extension service and we continue to evaluate the benefits and technical options for mobile video as well.
Many other features and improvements are on the roadmap this year.
Our final growth initiative is geographic expansion.
The global consumer communications market outside North America is more than $200 billion and it’s growing at nearly 7% per year.
We plan to capitalize in these opportunities and expand our geographic footprint primarily through partnerships and we expect to announce our first partnership soon.
We plan to announce an international friends and family offer whereby we exchange and terminate traffic with the foreign carrier jointly providing lower rate to consumers while expanding our customer base and that of our partner.
Additionally we are actively exploring the delivery of full VoIP communication services to be marketed and distributed as a compliment to an existing foreign provider’s product suite.
In 2011 we assessed the market landscape and put strategic plans in place to guide the execution of our growth initiatives.
We built out our R&amp;D capability in Israel began to staff our international expansion team and accelerated the number of new products we are bringing to market.
Our core business has been stabilized and is generating significant cash flow.
We’re now focused on the next phase of our transformation and we are pleased to be in a position to invest in opportunities in attractive new markets.
We believe customer interest in Vonage Mobile is evident that we are making the right investment.
Before I pass the call to Barry I’d like to thank our dedicated employees who enabled our transformation.
They work tirelessly to enable us to reach this point and I look forward to announcing continued progress toward our key objectives through 2012.
And now I’ll turn the call over to Barry who will review our financial performance in greater detail.
Thanks Marc and good morning everyone.
I’m pleased to review our financial and operating performance this year.
In 2011 we delivered record high financial results and continue to build on the earnings and cash flow momentum established over the past several years.
For the fourth consecutive year we generated positive and growing EBITDA and for the third consecutive year we reported a positive and increasing net income excluding adjustments which more than doubled from 2010.
We have improved our balance sheet dramatically through the two transformative refinancing we completed over the past 14 months.
Our strong operating performance and lower interest expense combined to generate $108 million or $0.48 per share in free cash flow.
This was our second year of positive free cash flow and each year generated over a $100 million.
With our core business now stabilized and highly profitable and with a fresh balance sheet we are well-positioned to execute on the next phase of Vonage’s transformation through accelerating our investment and the strategic growth initiative Marc outlined.
Let me now move to review our financial performance in getting on slide three.
Our results in fourth quarter were generally comparable to those reported in the third quarter of 2011.
In the fourth quarter we generated EBITDA of $40 million our fifth consecutive quarter of EBITDA at or above $40 million.
For the full year we grew EBITDA to a record high a $168 million achieving our guidance of at least $165 million provided on our first quarter earnings call last year which represents a 7% increase over the prior year as we delivered operational improvements across most segments of our business.
Through an aggressive focus on driving operating efficiency we reduced the unit cost of devices by approximately 10% lower cost of telephony services by 3% and reduce customer care costs per line by 11%.
We generated these strong results even as we absorbed a $15 million increase in the cost of telephony services from our targeted international long distance users who generated more than 20% higher minutes of use than during the prior year.
Moving to slide four in the fourth quarter we reported net income of $25 million or $0.11 per share excluding adjustments up from $15 million or $0.07 in the prior year’s quarter and an increase from $24 million or $0.11 sequentially.
Net income more than doubled for the first year growing to $96 million from $47 million in 2010 excluding adjustments.
This is our third consecutive year of positive and growing net income excluding adjustments reflecting a continue improvement in operations and sharply lower interest expense which declined $31 million from 2010.
Let me take a moment to discuss the release of our net deferred tax asset valuation and the associated impact on our financial statement.
Accounting rules require that we record a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax asset if we determine that it is more likely than not that we will use the net operating loss carry-forward prior to their expiration.
Until the most recent quarter we have recorded a valuation allowance that reduced our net deferred tax asset to zero.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 we concluded that based on past profits as well as our expectation for future net income generation it is more likely than not that we will use our NOL carry-forwards prior to their expiration.
Therefore we released the related valuation allowance against our United States and Canada net deferred tax assets and now recognize the value of the NOL as an asset on our balance sheet.
This resulted in a non-cash income tax benefit of $326 million and a corresponding net deferred tax asset of $326 million as of December 31 2011.
Please note that while this accounting adjustment will lower net income in the future by the effective tax rate it will not effect the cash taxes paid by the company which will continue to be offset by the approximately $800 million and net operating loss carry-forwards we had at the end of the year.
The net result is that we expect to recognize income tax expense in 2012 but this will be a non-cash expense.
Reflecting this one-time gain of $326 million GAAP net income for the quarter was $350 million or a $1.55 per share which was up from a net loss of $42 million or $0.19 per share in the year ago quarter and up from net income of $60 million or $0.07 in the third quarter both of which included charges related to refinancing our prior debts.
As you can see on slide five total revenue for the quarter of $260 million was stable relative to both the sequential and the prior year’s quarters declining less than 1% from each.
On an annual basis total revenue declined to $870 million from $885 million in 2010 primarily as a result of a $12 million reduction in deferred revenue from legacy activation fees.
These were largely paid out in mid 2009 to provide more straightforward pricing for our customers and this non-operating issue does not impact EBITDA.
Equipment and shipping revenue declined $8 million as we no longer charge for customer equipment.
We continue to strengthen the quality of our customer base and revenue mix as we grow the number of customers on Vonage World which now comprise approximately 50% of our base.
35% of our total customer base are now international long distance callers to make at least 20 minutes of ILD calls per month.
While the cost of telephony services for these customers is higher due to their long distance usage they are attractive customers as they typically churn at lower rates than domestic callers.
Aided by the mix of Vonage World subscribers we have increased average revenue per user or ARPU in each of the past three years.
For the fourth quarter telephony services’ ARPU was stable sequentially at $30.12.
On an annual basis service ARPU increased to $30.22 and is up 9% since 2008.
As we have attractive customers on higher rate plan and selectively increased prices as we enhance the value of our offering by adding features such as unlimited calling on one call and Vonage digital voicemail.
Please turn to slide six.
We added 169 000 gross lines in the fourth quarter on par with both the fourth quarter of last year and sequentially while we’ve been pleased with the increase in sales to our retail channel which was largely offset to declines in other channels resulting in a minimal change to overall results in the fourth quarter.
Reflecting progress adding Vonage World customers and in line with our guidance for higher gross line additions per year GLA improved by 5% to 672 000.
We improved our marketing yield by 2% in 2011 from 2010 as subscriber line acquisition cost declined from $310 to $304 for the year.
We required more customers to our lower cost retail channels.
Fourth quarter churn of 2.7% was flat compared to the third quarter.
While we saw some benefit as planned from customers and their 13 to 15 months of no contract is gaining to offset by higher churn in some international calling segments.
But typically churns tends to be higher among our growing base of Hispanic subscribers relative to other international callers as Marc described and we saw some increased competitive pressures in other ethnic segments.
As you may recall we eliminated contracts in September of 2010 creating upward pressure on churn during the subsequent 12 months.
In the first quarter we have been providing customers a choice offering those entering into a service agreement a promotional discount in place at that time.
Increases in churn in the second half of the year led to full year churn of 2.6% which matched the full year guidance we provided on the last earnings call.
However disappointed with the 20 basis points increase in churn from prior year we believe reinstating contracts will help mitigate some pressure on churn during the later part of 2012.
The combination of slightly lower gross line additions on flat churn resulted in 14 000 net line losses in the fourth quarter an increase of 5 000 lines loss compared to the third quarter of 2011.
A 30 000 in net line losses for the year were stable with the level we experienced in 2010.
As we discussed our strong EBITDA results for the year resulted from a combination of stable ARPU and an aggressive focus on operational improvements which has substantially improved our cost structure.
Moving to slide seven in the fourth quarter cost of telephony services or COTS of $59 million are flat sequentially and up $1 million from the same quarter a year ago as we increased the number of international long distance callers.
On a per line basis cost of telephony services was $8.24 flat sequentially and up from $8.06 a year ago.
We maintained direct margins of 68% both sequentially and compared to the prior year’s quarter.
For the full year of 2011 the total cost of telephony services was a very strong story beating our internal target.
We reduced total cost to $236 million from $244 million in 2010 driven largely by a 38% decline in domestic termination cost structural cost improvements which helped to offset the rate of growth in cost for international callers and E911 vendor consolidation let’s say $4 million annually.
Going forward we expect growth in cost from continued increases in international long distance calling due partially offset by the next-generation call routing and peering relationship we are implementing.
On slide eight SG&amp;A of $59 million in the fourth quarter was flat year-over-year and sequentially.
On an annual basis our focus on driving efficiencies throughout our operations resulted in further improvement in SG&amp;A but the SG&amp;A declined 2% to $235 million during 2011.
In 2007 we’ve lowered SG&amp;A by$87 million or 27% as we have made operational improvements in virtually every area of the business.
The substantial portion of these savings has come through improvements in our customer care operations.
We reduced care costs per line 11% in 2011 on top of the more than 20% reductions in each of the prior two years.
These gains in 2011 came from improving first on tax resolution and our call handling efficiency.
We see further opportunities for gains including for example improving customer contacts to best-in-class level additional reductions in customer handle time and through more customers accessing our online account management system which we continue to enhance.
Moving to slide nine.
While marketing expenses roughly flat sequentially we continue to optimize the mix of media and channel expenditures to meet our marketing objective.
For the year marketing expense increased $6 million or 3% to $204 million primarily related to the expansion of our retail channel.
The increase in spending as I mentioned contributed to the 5% increase in GLA.
Now let’s move to a discussion of our CapEx cash flow and balance sheet.
For the second consecutive year we generated significant cash flow through the combination of ongoing operational improvement and the benefit of our debt refinancing.
Looking at slide 10 CapEx for the year totaled $39 million in line with our guidance for CapEx not to exceed $40 million.
During 2012 we expect capital expenditures including information technology infrastructure investments to remain at comparable levels in the $40 million to $45 million range.
We are pleased to report that we generated a $108 million in free cash flow for the year meeting our guidance of at least $105 million.
Free cash flow grew 27% from the prior year after eliminating the impact of a $59 million setting in working capital as 2010 benefited from prior year purchase discount.
We reduced interest expense by 65% from 2010 to $70 million which contributed meaningfully to the strong performance.
We exit 2011 with a pristine balance sheet characterized by low leverage and low interest rate.
Total leverage is 0.5 times debt-to-EBITDA and allowing for the cash on the balance sheet net debt was $30 million or 0.2 times.
The interest rate on our term loan is at LIBOR plus 325 basis points based on our leverage ratios.
Now that we have stabilized our business are generating meaningful cash flow and are operating with a completely fresh balance sheet we are in a position to invest in the strategic growth initiatives Marc has described.
While most of the investments will be in the category of the SG&amp;A our efforts include a broad organizational realignment as we start to expand our product development capabilities ensure that we have the requisite skills to market our product enhance our network to accommodate worldwide mobile calling and add capacity to develop additional business partnership.
Again we expect these increased investments to range from $5 million to $10 million per quarter versus 2011 levels.
We will certainly manage this additional funding with the same discipline that has characterized the company’s financial turnaround over the past several years.
Reflecting these increased investments we are targeting $30 million to $35 million in quarterly EBITDA throughout 2012.
We have established this range of guidance to provide appropriate flexibility to manage the investment of our growth initiatives as they develop during this year of strategic transition.
We believe that redoubling our commitment to achieve quality sustainable revenue growth through these initiatives represents a high priority use of a prudent portion of the strong cash flow we are now generating from our core business.
Even with this increased level of investment we expect to add cash to our balance sheet during 2012 while of course meeting our obligations under our current debt agreement.
Based on these plans let me reiterate our guidance for 2012 EBITDA of $30 million to $35 million per quarter and $120 million to $140 million for the year reflecting additional investment in strategic growth initiatives capital expenditures in the range of $40 million to $45 million.
Thank you again for your interest in Vonage.
And now I’ll turn the call back over to Leslie to initiate the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Barry.
Operator please open the line for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Michael Rollins of Citi.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
I think three if I could please.
The first one is Marc you mentioned the success of the new application in terms of I think you mentioned over 100 000 downloads in the first week.
Can you share with us how that compares to the last couple of mobile product launches that you’ve done and how we should think about the way they should ramp? The second question I had was you also described an expectation for incremental revenue I think you said within the next few years of $100 million.
Can you talk about what the margin potential for that is and how to think about the cash contribution from that type of revenue growth? And then finally if you could just talk about the churn and what’s keeping the churn elevated from where it was earlier in the year and yeah maybe where initially you’re hoping to get that number down too? Thanks.
Sure Mike.
And thanks for the questions.
Let me take them in order.
On Vonage Mobile just to clarify we had some in going expectations that we will be pleased if we were able to generate 100 000 downloads with basically virtually zero marketing spending in the first week.
We’re blown by that number by several fold and are pleased with the traction.
It’s very difficult and something is only a week old to look at the viral nature and how it’s spreading.
But the expectation for us at this point based upon how it compares to other application in day five for example we were seeing that that acceleration was doubled what the kind of downloads were from day one.
That’s a very different dynamic than what we saw which is more straight line continuous motion from prior applications.
That combined with increasing positive rating exposed in the Android market and in the iTunes store as well we’re seeing in terms of number of invited friends that people now have they can talk on net gives us some optimism that we think this could grow pretty quickly and it would not be unrealistic for us to hit ballpark of 1 million downloads by end of quarter certainly at current courses speed.
Again I want to warn folks that it’s only a weekend to it very difficult to forecast a trend based on when we -- we are encouraged with the early signs and it’s growing much more quickly than our previous experience.
Let me hit the churn comment and I’m going to ask Barry to talk about the margin potential on the $100 million of new revenues.
From a churn standpoint as you know one of the drivers that causes an uptick in churn over the past year was the elimination of contracts and service agreements.
We are putting that back in place this week and we expect that will start to give us some improvement in the back half of the year as a greater percentage of our customer bases on contracts.
So we have that and we can model that.
The other elements of the mix the Hispanic customer base has a higher churn profile frankly than we expected to be and obviously it’s grown much more quickly during the year.
Let me break down a couple of the areas for churn.
Just for clarification although there has been a mix in terms of where some of the churn rates have gone our non-Hispanic domestic callers that churn rate has been dead flat for the last five quarters.
So there is virtually zero change in that portion of the customer base.
The largest single increase in churn has come from Hispanic customers break that into two pieces domestic and international users.
The domestic Hispanic customers are churning at extremely high rates.
They’ve increased dramatically over the last few months and we see that as being a look at them after the fact as really socioeconomic issues.
It’s evidenced by having poor or unscoreable credit and as we talk to these customers we understand it’s an issue of trying to manage their finances on debit cards and credit cards pretty much on monthly basis.
So automatic charges to those cards tend to be the kinds of things that cause them problems and throw them in to great status and suspend.
So we’re trying to work on different types of structures the calling plans as well as alternate payment vehicles that we think can help to improve that churn.
There is definitely high level of satisfaction and desire for the product but this is getting to an ability to pay for that product that we need to try to manage.
In the international Hispanic segment that is much much lower churn rates it parallels the international versus domestic differentials we’ve shared with you in the past.
But it has also increased for some of the same reasons.
It’s still quite lower quite a bit lower than our average but because there is a large number of Hispanic international customer’s it’s increasing the average.
Many of the same kinds of tactics that we’re pursuing in the domestic market we think will help in the international area.
The final area that had an impact for us particularly in the fourth quarter and we’ve actually seen improvements here in the first month of the year as we’ve taken action has been competitive smaller focused promotional offerings going after Asian-Indian customers.
So there are couple of small branded players using everything from prepaid to digital virtual calling cards that have been aggressive in targeting our Asian-Indian base in the fourth quarter.
Candidly we did not have particularly good retention offers for those customers.
We now have the ability to real time re-rate or match and provide alternate rate plans when necessary to meet competitive offers and we’ve seen that starting to improve our business in the fourth quarter.
In terms of guidance there are a couple of things that cut both directions.
So the Asian-Indian churn levels we feel that we’ve got that in check.
We feel like that’s moving in the right direction.
We definitely expect to see benefit from the return to service agreements or contracts and we believe that the movement in the domestic core business has been quite stable as has the non-Hispanic international group.
The wildcard is on Hispanic churn rates can we -- the actions we put in place help us meaningfully and are there other wildcards that might come in the marketplace that could create some down -- some upside pressure to churn.
On the whole we think that you should be thinking about roughly stable churn throughout the year with certainly improvements in the back half of the year relative to the front half.
Sorry for the longwinded answer but I’m sure that it’s on everybody’s minds I wanted to give as much color as we could.
That’s very helpful.
Thanks.
And then on the margin potential for the $100 million? Yeah.
Let me speak to that Mike.
So let me start with I mean the revenues we do see as having that kind of potential through a combination of the strategic growth initiatives between both the mobile services business as well as expansion outside of the U.
S.
So since we’ve just introduced Vonage Mobile products let me talk about that margin potential and how we think about it.
And first is we have very low termination rates as you know which enabled us to be able to price at the kind of levels that we described and we have priced this for penetration.
The real objective here is to build a community because that’s really when you get the revenue potential to start to grow once you get that community build people start making those off-net calls which is the primary source of revenue in the early stages.
So with our low cost and termination we have been able to price this in a way that gives a good incremental contribution margins in the range of our current core business.
So and overtime what we’ll have to monitor is how the market evolves.
So as I mentioned it’s priced to be able to drive downloads.
We will continue to evolve the business model over time as we look for example at various alternatives or payments and the like.
So but the strategy is to be able to price it now to drive penetration to make acceptable and attractive contribution margins and then we will evolve that over time as we see the overall user base grow.
Great.
Thanks just a follow-up for one more moment I apologize for asking so many questions.
But just in terms of you guys obviously get a lot of valuation of the incremental investment relative to the incremental returns.
And it seems like the story for Vonage over the last couple of years has been about looking to develop this optionality that you have to move into new markets while harvesting the cash out of the home replacement business if I have that right? And it seems like now you are willing to take some of that home replacement cash and really get more aggressive for these new sources of growth.
So as we’re trying to evaluate returns for that I mean is there a way to think about maybe the rate of return you should get that over a five-year period or just the ability to generate long-term margins where you are today or better.
Any further thoughts on that will be just incredibly helpful? Thanks.
So Mike let me take the front end of that in terms of the framing I had to think about what we’ve been doing where we’re going.
You’re largely correct in stating that we have over the last couple of years had to get to a point where we had the stable -- the stability and the cash flow that gave us this optionality to begin to invest and we saw well the time is right we had the organizational capacity the product and understood the markets.
It was not long ago when we didn’t have even the flexibility of indebt covenants to be able to ride very far away from a very specific set of financial metrics that had very high pain thresholds if we were to miss any kind of numbers.
We’ve now been able to generate tremendous cash.
We’ve been able to stabilize the business.
Mike Barry talked about the pristine balance sheet.
And now we’ve also while doing that we’ve been able to understand better these markets build some of the products and services as you see in Vonage Mobile which from that capabilities we had 18 months ago.
And now that we are much closer to the ability to start really selling and marketing these and managing with the interfaces for partners whether it be distribution partners or it be partnerships internationally or whether it be to accelerate the speed with which we actually bring new products and services in mobile to market we now have the ability to invest as prudently to drive these revenues.
In terms of overall return I’ll let Barry comment in terms of our internal targets kind of over a five-year what kind of IRR we are targeting but that’s exactly the way we’re thinking about the business which get it to this point generate the cash know that we can continue to generate cash and be able to afford investment in those things that we think have strong returns and leverage our technology and organizational skills.
Yeah.
Let me just drill on that a minute Mike.
You used the word harvesting I’m not sure I would not use that word I think when we have got the core business to the point where it’s driving stable cash flows we view this as an appropriate use of a portion of that cash to really drive the growth.
And now as Marc described we developed with the conviction and the plans around these growth initiatives.
So as you know this is not a change in direction at all that was really a continuation of the direction but a deepening and an increase of -- deepening of the conviction and an increase of the investment now that we have that conviction.
So as we have laid plans during the course of this year and now we’ve put the business models in place we certainly are going to bring a prudent measured financially disciplined approach to the way we evaluate these opportunities.
So we would look for example at around 20% kind of in our threshold to both projects.
That’s been the case as we look at these opportunities.
We talked a lot about mobile and we also say that on the international expansion alternative that is going to be done as we’ve described on a more case-by-case partner-by-partner type basis.
So we will look at each of those projects and opportunities as we develop a very detailed cash flow model and take projection around that that are designed to meet those internal thresholds.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
Let me add one more point on the guidance.
Again we are pretty straight shooters and try to give the transparency that we can and also where you don’t have it we won’t.
I think on the guidance we wanted to communicate to folks at the start of this year that we believe the time for investment and accelerating that investment really is now.
We have enough visibility to products and servicing and opportunities that we don’t want to surprise somebody later in the year.
It’s not a guarantee that it will be five or 10 or that it is consistent through the quarters during the course of the year.
We are providing a range of estimates because we need the flexibility we think about our total marketing spend and total size of our business $5 million to $10 million a quarter is not a lot when you think about starting businesses of this magnitude.
So we want to share with you the range lay them on the table and trust that we are going to execute each one of those projects and each one of those investments and evaluate them individually.
It’s not a right of communication that the money will be spent.
It’s -- us trying to share with you the range of investments that we think will be required and we are going to do that very opportunistically and if something catches fire we are going to cede it and if something isn’t working particularly well we’re going to cut it back.
That’s the way we’ve operated for the last three years but now we are going to do that with a broader range against driving revenues.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you guys very much.
Okay.
Next question Operator.
Our next question comes from Mike Latimore with Northland Capital.
Please go ahead with your question.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
In terms of the $100 million kind of view how would you divide that among the three kind of growth initiatives that you have here.
Would you say that kind of get $33 million from roughly each of those three growth areas or is one going to be the predominant key for that $100 million? And then which of the three kind of growth areas you think will be most impactful this year? Mike I think it’s too early to divide those.
We wanted to give a sense of guidance for what we thought the overall opportunity could result in.
The way I -- we would describe them I think are generally in order of priority and sequencing as we laid out.
So it’s really the mobile services opportunity as you know a very large market.
We have a product that is out of the gate now and I’m very pleased with those initial results.
So clearly that has a platform and extensions of that platform are going -- is going to be a very important for us as where we go and are probably certainly the highest priority at this point in terms of time.
The second priority is on the international geographic expansion we’re active in discussions about that.
As we’ve talked about that will depend on the nature of the relationships that we develop because we do see that it’s primarily coming through business partnerships so but those markets are very large and some of those potential opportunities are large.
So I think that is going to be -- characteristics of that growth are going to be different because they are going to be based more on a project-by-project kind of a basis versus the mobile opportunity that is really driven by the overall market opportunity and the position we’re in to be able to compress the pricing in the industry historically and with our -- leveraging our technologies platform.
And the third area is continuing to drive the penetration into ILD callers in the U.
S.
So we do see that as an opportunity that’s a more mature market and we continue to tune up that marketing spend to drive that that’s the order of priority and I think we put them in internally as they unfold.
Great.
On the mobile -- the new mobile apps sounds like downloads are going well.
Do you have a sense or a goal as to what percent of the download will be paying users versus free users? We didn’t -- we have a robust model on that and we’ve looked at what are general industry norms along these lines.
So you have downloads obviously that translates into number of active users and in our case that then translates into the number of people that are actually monetizing it based on off-net calling.
So as typical in the industry well it’s a relatively small percentage of it ultimately go all the way from download to monetize calls.
But the early results are positive actually.
The active users are ahead of expectations.
It’s too early to see how the monetization results are going to unfold.
But we’re very pleased with how that is unfolding at this point relative with the model we have in mind.
Yeah.
I mean over the next few months Mike the goal in this kind of model is you’ve got to build large community.
You’ve got to get folks who are active users using the free services that are then pulling through those additional revenue streams.
And by the way there is additional revenue streams we talked about them as the international calling and texting but there is also opportunities if you get the right kind of size of base particularly they’re heavily using chat and SMS to use develop advertising models as well as there is wealth of information created based upon a large-scale community that can be monetized potentially as well.
So I think the key metrics we’re focused on right now our downloads and folks who are actually engaging with the product and inviting others to join and having those contacts that is where we got to go first and foremost.
If you do that well then the revenues will follow.
Okay.
And then on the reintroduction of annual contracts is there going to be some sort of ARPU trade out there? How should we think about ARPU versus move back to annual? No.
There won’t be an ARPU trade-off with return to service agreements.
The way we’re structuring this is previously everybody got our promotion [dossier] and now the way we’re going to structure this is much like the wireless industry in terms of device subsidies.
If you want to get the promotional pricing you get -- it will take us a 12 month service agreement and if you simply want to pay the full both $26 per month then you don’t have to take that contract.
Net-net with holding any other potential ARPU compressors or competitive stuff that will technically give you something more of an ARPU increase because you wouldn’t spend more that promotion we are not forecasting that but mathematically that’s what you conclude.
It’s just a function of taking existing promotions and those who would require service agreement it really returns to what we were before but looking at people choice so that those who simply don’t want to be locked into a contract do have an alternative with us.
Okay.
Thank you.
Okay.
NEXT question Operator.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from Robert Routh with Phoenix Partners Group.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Just two quick ones.
First I noticed I mean clearly you guys reverse the NOL which you didn’t think you’d ever be able to use and that tells me that you obviously see sustained profitability from a pre-tax point of view for GAAP in the foreseeable future.
I’m just wondering if I’m reading into that right and if you can tell us kind of obviously how much clarity priority did you have in order to take the step of reversing that NOL and then actually putting it back on the books and being able to utilize it? And then second question is obviously you spoke about your return on capital you look for 20% IRR and looking to your stock down today 15% and giving your balancing sheet with solid as a rock the free cash flow expectations the growth and even though you had de minimis loss of subscribers for the year given your sub-base we would see the best use of your cash now would clearly be on stock because your cost of equity has got to be over 50%.
And yet with your debts so low for the company that could be leveraged two times at almost a zero interest rate environment.
I’m just wondering whether management would consider at some point instituting some kind of a share buyback because it would see as though in additions rather initiatives that would be a really good use of your cash as well as the good signal to your major shareholders that you believe your -- stock is cheaper at current levels.
Well let me take your first question first relative to the NOL’s you’ve got that exactly right it does -- it requires a very significant analysis both by management the Board internal audit sorry external auditing firm as well as other experts to determine what is the probability that you’ll be able to use those before expiration and the measure is degree of confident that you in fact do that so it does reflect as you rightly pointed out confidence to sustain profitability.
So that is a very bullish action to take that and put that as a differed tax asset on the balance sheet.
Barry do you want to take that? Yeah.
And so that is absolutely the case and can’t do that and make that’s kind of adjustment that is in accounting and prove without taking of course a very careful look at that that is along with scrutiny.
So we really did that and it is certainly an indication of our confidence there.
With regarding the use of the cash and would we considered about buyback and the answer is yeah.
As we think about per use of cash and we talk about this in the past and clearly as we build even with the investments that we are planning and making to drive growth.
We do plan to continue to build cash during the course of 2012 albeit more modestly then if we had not been making these kind of investments.
So paying -- we’re paying for growth out of the operating earnings of the company.
We will also continue to evaluate opportunities for inorganic growth that would make sense.
But at the right time we would also consider returning capital to shareholders at an appropriate time in the future.
So as we talked about in the past being in this position of having reasonably sizable cash positions of $59 million at the end of the this quarter for example it’s new to Vonage but as things unfold that is certainly something that we will and we actively discuss with our Board and in something that we would considered doing at the right time.
Great.
And just a follow-up to the first answer is there any if you are as on our side of fence are you looking at the company.
How would you quantify the cash value of taking those NOLs and now you have the benefit of them as you wouldn’t before.
What do you think is our fare kind of tax rate to apply to that number to get to the incremental equity value you’ve created by being able to do that? Well I think the best way to look at that is that you look at the entry that was put on the balance sheets for the deferred tax assets are in $326 million.
So that is in fact the NOL that we have in place that we believe are more likely than which is the pick of the tax to be used before they expire you take those NOLs and apply the effective tax rate.
So that is the expected cash savings from those NOLs at prevailing tax rate at $326 million.
And then you to get a present value of that you’d have to discount it back obviously based on the expected usage over time.
Sure.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
Operator we have time for one more question please.
Our final question comes from [Brian Hurray] with (inaudible) and Management.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
I actually have three.
Just to follow-up on the last question.
Do you have a target leverage ratio in mind for the business because it looks likes you’ll be either completely debt free or in a net cash position before the end of the year? Do you have any thoughts about philosophically what the right level of leverage is? Our strategy on that Brian is to pay down the debt according to the current schedule as you know historically we had prepaid debt when we had interest rates up in the 9% 10% range.
At these current interest levels it does not make sense in our view to prepay that.
So the plan would be to pay debt down according to schedule and that debt gets paid off in the middle of 2014.
And the strategy there is to be able to maintain debt capacity.
It’s not using it for things that would make sense in the future.
So the strategy is to maintain that level of debt for the foreseeable future but have that capacity available as appropriate for future uses.
Okay.
And then on the Mobile app that has just been introduced do you have a kind of a range of ARPU number there that you think is realistic to achieve once you get the community built? Yeah.
We do have expectation for that I mean when you look at where the market is I mean it’s in the kind of sub $10 range but that’s what you see is typical for example not to give you when you go to the Skype that’s one for example you see that but what we look at is is something in that kind of a zipcode.
Okay.
That’s fair.
...
high single-digit.
Okay.
And then lastly with the three growth initiatives that you’ve discussed during the call can you give us any sense as to what kind of transparency or visibility you are going to offer on the -- be it the growth or profitability or both of those those three efforts over the course of the year? We recognize the need for visibility into that.
So we will describe those in ways that make sense as they unfold for example numbers of download that Marc described for the Mobile app is the best early indication of how that’s taking fold -- taking hold.
In terms of profitability and we’ll have to just let this unfold it’s obviously it’s going to take some time for this to be material we’ve described the in response to the previous question.
Our approach to that which is to make sure that the -- make sure that the businesses indicate that mobile and the new specific opportunity achieved a targeted internal threshold so as -- that certainly what we are achieving and we will give additional information on those revenues as they materialize over time but it will take time.
Let me just to clarify so we will provide tactical indicators of progress but we do not plan to do segments specific reporting until it becomes material to the business.
You should not expect that in the next couple of quarters.
So we will keep you posted on progress.
So you can assess how we are performing but the level of detail as individual line item metrics and segment traditional reporting that you might expect and something that was 30% or 40% of our business.
We don’t foresee that in the next couple of quarters and now we want to set certain expectation that you will see that.
Okay.
Understand.
Thank you.
With that we’ll conclude the call.
Thank you for joining us today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentleman thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This thus concludes the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day everyone and welcome to Vonage Holdings Corp.
First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Just as a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Miss Leslie Arena Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Miss Arena.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Speaking on our call this morning will be Marc Lefar Chief Executive Officer and Barry Rowan CFO.
Marc will discuss the company strategy and progress we are making on our growth initiatives and Barry will review our financial results.
Slides that accompany Barry's discussion are available on the IR website.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks we will be happy to take your questions.
As referenced on Slide 2 I would like to remind everyone that statements made during this call that are not historical facts or information may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These and all forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations and depend on assumptions that may be incorrect or imprecise.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
More information about those risks and uncertainties is highlighted on the second page of the slides and contained in our SEC filings.
We caution listeners not to rely unduly on forward-looking statements and disclaims any intent or obligation to update them.
During this call we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures is available on the IR website.
And now I will turn the call over to Marc.
Thank you Leslie and good morning everyone.
We entered 2012 with a financially strong business characterized by strong flow our lowest cost structure in six years and a clean balance sheet.
With a stable core business we're continuing to focus our effects to drive revenue in three major areas.
The first is international long distance where we will build on our success through continued penetration of ethnic calling segments and expanded distribution.
The second is mobile services which builds on the recently launched Vonage Mobile platform.
And third is international expansion as we enter new geographic markets outside North America and the UK through strategic partnerships.
In the past year Vonage world customers have grown from 43% of our base to nearly 50% today.
Our base of active international callers now comprises 35% of all customers.
In recent months we continued to grow our international long distance space driven by our continued efforts in Hispanic segment.
In the first quarter we experienced 6% growth in the number of callers to Mexico and Central America.
This builds upon our success that began in 2011 with the launch of our end-to-end Spanish language experience for our customers.
This capability has contributed to an increase of 60% in monthly usage to Mexico the Caribbean and Latin America since the beginning of 2011.
In addition we've expanded the number of community sales teams and broadened our retail distribution.
These channels now deliver over 20% of total sales primarily in key ethnic segments.
In the very near future we will enhance our current service offerings to better meet the needs of the estimated 700 000 people of Pakistani decent living in the United States and the many millions of Latinos that call internationally to mobile phones.
Although not yet material to our overall financial results let me take a moment to talk about the tangible progress that we've made in our mobile and international expansion efforts where we've reached several key milestones since the beginning of this year.
On February 8 we launched the Vonage Mobile app.
For those of you not familiar with the app Vonage Mobile is a free downloadable application for iPhone and Android that let's users make free high definition calls and send free texts to all users of the app worldwide.
It works over Wi-Fi 3G and 4G wireless data networks.
When calling people who don't have the app users get low cost calling worldwide with pay-per-minute rates that are on average 70% less than major mobile carriers and 30% less than Skype.
With over one million downloads in roughly eight weeks we are approaching usage of over 10 million minutes per month.
While pleased with the first version we do see opportunities for improvement and we've been steadily updating the app to enhance ease of use functionality and performance.
We've already implemented four releases for IOS and five releases for Android.
Just yesterday we released an update to the app that enhances our messaging solution to allow photos and location sharing and sharing of the app with friends on Facebook and Twitter.
Connection quality load times when opening the app and battery life are top priorities we are continuing to address.
In the coming months we will add desirable features such as Bluetooth and a low cost international roaming capability that will allow customers traveling outside their home country to avoid high roaming fees.
In addition we plan to launch standalone mobile services for customers without Smartphones including low cost international calling plans.
Vonage Extensions which expands the benefits of our core service beyond the walls of the home to any other phone including mobile has also been very well received.
More than 500 000 customers have signed up for extensions and have already made more than 70 million mobile calls.
Reflecting the company's progress executing against this mobile strategy approximately 15% of international calling minutes now originate from mobile devices.
As we've discussed on prior calls our approach to enter new international markets is primarily through partnerships.
We have identified meaningful opportunities and are in active discussions with several prospective partners to offer services in large emerging markets.
Today we announced our first partnership with Globe the second largest carrier in the Philippines to deliver affordable calling plans to and from the Philippines.
With more than 8 million Filipino living abroad which includes 3 million living in the United States the Filipino calling segment represents a substantial growth opportunity for Vonage and for Globe.
This attractive customer segment is highly educated has an average income that is 50% higher than the US average population has a high penetration of broadband service and a high affinity for staying connected to friends and family overseas.
The partnership allows for the exchange and termination of traffic with Globe with each company offering exceptional pricing to consumers in their respective countries for calls made between Vonage and Globe.
This alliance marks a significant milestone in Vonage's strategy to expand our services beyond North America.
By leveraging our heritage of VOIP innovation and expertise in international long distance we can offer partners such as Globe the ability to expand their communications businesses in their local markets and beyond.
We expect to be in-market and generating revenue during the summer.
We are also in discussions with Globe about extending the partnership in other ways to meet their strategic interest of serving Filipinos globally.
In other markets we are actively developing additional partnerships that parallel the globe relationship as well as other opportunities including the delivery of voice services that would complement the existing product suites of international carriers broadband providers and retailers.
We are pleased that prospective partners are interested in leveraging Vonage's expertise proven track record international focus well-recognized brand and technology innovation to get to market quickly.
And while the number and quality of opportunities that are presenting themselves excite us we are taking a disciplined approach to assessing economics and selecting partners.
Let me know discuss the financial and operating results for our core business.
The continued strong cash flow generated by our core business provides a solid financial foundation to fund the growth initiatives we've highlighted.
Reflecting on our strong commitment to these initiatives and inline with the guidance provided on last quarter's earnings calls we invested $7 million building organizational capacity adding development resources and investing in marketing in the first quarter.
As a result adjusted EBITDA was $32 million.
Revenue of $216 million was flat sequentially.
Gross line additions in the quarter were impacted by several offsetting factors and ended relatively flat sequentially at 165 000 lines.
During the quarter we added more customers through our retail channels.
Although these gains were offset by lower customer additions as we implemented contracts reduced the level of discounting in our promotional offers and were impacted by some aggressive competitive promotional offers.
Our retail channel contributed to 21% of gross line additions in the quarter up from 19% sequentially.
Our nearly 60 feet on the street event teams now operate in 19 states with high ethnic concentrations including California Texas Florida and New York.
The cost of acquisition or SLAC increased 5% sequentially to $323 driven by media tests early in the quarter.
We are seeing some tightness in the second quarter media marketplace pushing pricing upwards and this may place some pressure on second quarter GLAs.
As discussed on last quarter's call higher churn in the Hispanic segment had impacted overall churn.
Based on the positive actions we've taken to implement contracts and to improve retention and telesales efforts we believe churn peaked during the first quarter.
While churn for the full quarter was 2.8% 10 basis points higher sequentially it has declined since reaching a high in January.
Based on recent trends we fully expect to see lower churn in the second quarter.
As many of you will recall we eliminated contracts a year and a half ago based on the churn reductions we had already achieved during that past year and with the belief that service agreements were a barrier to acquisition.
As a result churn for no-contract customers increased.
After assessing the trade-offs of our no-contract policy we did reinstitute contracts this past February.
Customers now have the option of taking a contract and receiving the promotional price or choosing no contract.
Approximately 65% of new customers now opt for the contract which we believe will further improve churn later in the year.
As a result of the relatively flat GLAs and modestly higher churn net losses were 19 000 slightly worse than the 14 000 lines lost in the fourth quarter.
Looking ahead we plan to target domestic callers with a lower price limited feature domestic-only offer.
We've talked previously about plans for this offer which was originally slated for later in the year.
We are now accelerating those plans and expect to have an offer in place in the coming months.
In summary our core business is financially sound and continues to generate significant cash flow and at the same time we're making tangible progress executing on our growth strategy in international long distance mobile and international expansion.
We look forward to providing you with an update on our progress.
And now I'll pass the call to Barry.
Thanks Marc and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to review our financial and operating performance with you.
Financial results were generally inline with our expectations and we finished the quarter with tangible early progress delivering on our growth initiatives.
As planned we are investing in an international long distance mobile and international expansion to lay the foundation for future growth.
Beginning on Slide 3 our core business EBITDA remained strong.
You will recall from last earnings call that we said that we expected to invest $5 million to $10 million per quarter in our strategic growth initiatives throughout 2012.
During the first quarter we invested $7 million to fund organizational growth add development resources and invest in marketing across these initiatives.
EBITDA was $32 million for the quarter down as planned from $40 million sequentially and $43 million in the year-ago quarter.
Moving to Slide 4 GAAP net income was $14 million or $0.06 per share down from $21 million or $0.10 per share in the year-ago quarter.
This decline reflects lower operating income and higher income tax expense resulting from last quarter's release of our valuation allowance of $326 million.
While our 2012 effective tax rate is expected to be 33% the effective tax rate in the first quarter was 26% due to the timing of certain items primarily related to adjustments in stock compensation.
As a reminder the change in accounting for income taxes reflected in this quarter's results and going forward has no impact on the actual cash taxes we pay which will remain minimal due to our next operating loss carryforwards.
Net income statement was $19 million or $0.08 per share excluding adjustments a decline from $26 million or $0.11 per share sequentially and a decline from $23 million or $0.10 per share in the year-ago quarter.
Compared to the first quarter of last year we saved $5 million in interest expense which largely funded the $7 million we invested in our strategic growth initiatives during the first quarter of this year.
Moving to Slide 5 revenue of $216 million was flat sequentially and down from $220 million in the year-ago quarter reflecting 2% fewer lines in service and a $1 million reduction in deferred revenues from legacy activation fees.
Average revenue per user increased sequentially to $30.42 from $30.19 aided by higher USF and improved bad debt.
Average revenue per user was roughly flat compared to the year-ago quarter as improvements in customer mix and higher USF mitigated the decline in legacy activation fee revenue.
Moving to Slide 6 in the first quarter cost of telephony services or COTS of $62 million increased from $59 million sequentially and $60 million in the prior year.
This reflects higher international long distance termination and USF costs offset in part by lower domestic terminations costs which declined to an all-time low in the first quarter.
On a per line basis COTS and telephony services was $8.68 up from $8.24 sequentially and from $8.34 a year ago.
Direct margin declined slightly to 67% from 68% sequentially and compared to the prior year's quarter on higher international termination costs associated with increased ILD minutes.
Going forward we expect that the upward pressure on COTS from our continued focus on growing our ILD base and mobile services will be substantially mitigated by the next generation call routing and peering relationships we are implementing.
On Slide 7 SG&amp;A of $62 million increased from $59 million sequentially and $58 million a year ago reflecting increased investment in staff development resources and marketing for mobile services all key components of our strategic growth initiative.
We continue to improve the efficiency of customer care in our core business as we reduce per line costs by 6% from the prior year.
These improvements also provided a portion of the funding for our growth initiatives.
Moving to Slide 8 in the first quarter marketing expense increased to $53 million from $52 million sequentially and $49 million in the year-ago quarter.
Turning to Slide 9 while we continue to make progress strengthening our retail channels gross line additions overall were roughly flat sequentially at a 165 000 lines and down from 175 000 in the year-ago quarter.
The combination of flat sequential gross line additions and increased churn which rose to 2.8% from 2.7% sequentially resulted in a net line loss of 19 000 lines in the quarter.
This is an increase in line losses of 5 000 lines from the fourth quarter of last year.
As Marc discussed our churn levels peaked in January and have declined since then.
Based on the actions we're taking and this positive trend we expect churn to be lower in the second quarter than the 2.8% level we saw during the first quarter of this year.
We'll now move to a discussion of CapEx cash flow and the balance sheet highlighted on Slide 10.
As we've discussed on prior calls our cash flow is helped by our low CapEx requirements which remain at less than 5% of revenue.
For the quarter CapEx was $9 million down from $13 million in the fourth quarter of last year and up from $5 million a year ago due to timing of CapEx projects.
The majority of our capital expenditures are for investments in information technology and systems infrastructure in support of our core business and growth initiatives.
The balance is dedicated to maintenance capital.
Our CapEx investment is primarily related to the transformation of our information technology and systems infrastructure such a electronic data warehouse online customer service customer management platforms and a new billing and order management system.
As we've progressed with the implementation phase of the billing and order management system in recent months we have encountered some quality and stability issues.
This has resulted in incremental costs to the company and will cause delays in transitioning customers to the system.
We're working with the vendor to resolve these issues.
However the implementation of the new system is now expected to continue into the first half of 2013.
These issues are not causing us to revise our EBITDA guidance for the year and we continue to expect capital and software expenditures to be in the range of $40 million to $45 million for 2012.
Now let me turn to a discussion of our cash flow and balance sheet.
As a result of our investment in growth initiatives timing of CapEx and uses of working capital free cash flow was down from $13 million a year ago to $2 million this quarter.
Consistent with prior years we are a net user of working capital in the first quarter due to the timing of bonus payouts and hardware and software maintenance renewals.
We used $17 million in working capital during the first quarter and expect it to be approximately neutral for the full year repeating the seasonal pattern we saw during 2011.
As of March 31 cash and cash equivalents was $55 million down from $59 million sequentially.
In addition the company has restricted cash of $6 million.
We ended the quarter with a strong balance sheet reflected in total leverage to EBITDA of just 0.5x and net debt of $26 million.
We're pleased to have a strong balance sheet that offers us substantial flexibility to invest for future growth.
In summary we reported solid financial results in our core business.
Based on positive trends in churn we believe that we will see a decline in the second quarter from the peak in the first quarter of this year.
We're taking steps to execute on our strategy in ILD mobile and international expansion as highlighted by our new international partnership with Globe and our previously announced mobile milestones.
Our guidance for the balance of the year remains consistent.
We continue to expect 2012 adjusted EBITDA of $30 million to $35 million per quarter and $120 million to $140 million for the year.
This reflects the investment of $5 million to $10 million per quarter we are making in our strategic growth initiatives.
We continue to believe these initiatives have the potential to achieve over $100 million in annualized revenue within two to three years.
Thank you again for your interest in Vonage.
I'll now turn the call back over to Leslie to initiate the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Barry.
Operator please open the line for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Mike Latimore from Northland Capital.
Thanks.
Good morning.
On the Globe deal can you help just maybe quantify what you see as the opportunity there? I believe you had a Philippines initiative last year.
How is that different under a Globe as partnership and just a little more quantification of what that might mean? Sure Mike.
It's Mark.
Let me take that one for you.
So first off as I mentioned in my script that are over 3 million Philippinos living in the US.
So it’s a very substantial market audience.
Philippinos generally pay somewhere between $0.08 and $0.12 per minute for terminating traffic to call back to the Philippines.
And pricing into the US from the Philippines is not terribly attractive either.
It's an audience that has significant income.
They're very close within their families and they parallel some of the other ethnic segments we've had significant success like the Asian Indian segment in terms of how close they close they are in family and how fast word of mouth travels upon deals.
The product we launched a little over a year ago was based upon economics that were broadly available in the marketplace without any kind of strategic partnership or alignment.
We did a fair bit of research on that product.
Knew when we came out with it it was really only going to be appreciated by folks who are extremely heavy users and started with a minimum ante about $65 to $70 to get into the marketplace.
As a result of this partnership without giving specific details for competitive reasons we anticipate that we will have extremely disruptive pricing at the time the launch comes forward such that people calling between Globe and Vonage structured in a unique rate plan will radically shift the overall value proposition.
We think it will increase both our marketplace but overall volume of minutes passing between the countries.
We believe the opportunity on a full year basis is well in excess of $10 million in revenue for us.
Until we're in-market I hesitate to provide a more specific range because we're dealing with quantitative market research but until you're in-market with the product it's difficult to forecast hard dollars.
Sure.
Okay.
And then on the – you talked about the media pricing second quarter.
Do you expect then that maybe gross adds would be down sequentially a little bit? Or how should we think about gross adds given the media pricing? It's a really fair question Mike and I don't to at all appear to dodge it.
The issue is one as you know we purchased direct response television in the marketplace.
So we're in buying on a regular basis.
The availability of GRPs and how much we're willing to pay for them to get a good return on our customer acquisition varies week by week.
So we literally are managing that plan as the quarter unfolds.
So one of two things happens.
If we think we can get the inventory and still get a good return on that investment you could see slightly higher marketing expense on our core business.
Alternatively you could see us say that it's really not worth that investment.
And we could see slighter slighter softness in GLAs.
So it’s a choice we make week by week.
But I'll tell you that we're doing is we have a number of new exciting products that are coming out before end of the quarter and we are pushing on those through alternate channels beyond traditional media so that if there is softness in GLAs driven by television media we hope to be able to offset or exceed those expectations.
But I think it's important for investors to understand that unlike an AT&amp;T or somebody's who's buying in the fixed market well in advance we take advantage of very low cost media but that puts us at a little bit more risk as markets tighten and flex.
In fact we had an opportunity in the first quarter to take advantage of soft media markets in January and that's why we invested a bit more in marketing.
We held some quantitative testing on media heavy-outs to see what kind of lift we can get.
And we're actually going to build on that learning in the second and third quarter.
We actually were able to see for windows of time some very interesting positive response to certain types of media when we're able to purchase that at high weights in certain segments.
So it is an experiment and the second quarter is a tight media market from pricing standpoint.
And then just lastly your mobile app.
It sounds like the downloads have gone very well since the launch.
I guess have you seen any – in terms of daily downloads have you seen any change in the last say month? Have the downloads improved stayed the same as they've always been? Just a little bit maybe more real time information on daily downloads around mobile apps? As you'd expect once you get through your initial surge it's a little bit softer than it was in the first couple of weeks to be sure.
The issue now is over the next 6 to 12 months is how do you build that usage and build viral spreading of downloads.
It's not unusual to see a softening and then an acceleration again when you look at other companies who'd want similar kinds of products.
But the direct answer to your question is our daily downloads are not as strong as they were in the first two weeks but we are still well ahead of what our expected first quarter downloads were and we are seeing solid usage.
Great.
Thank you.
Next question operator.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Robert Routh from Phoenix Partners.
Good morning guys.
Couple of quick questions.
As far as the partnership that you announced this morning I know you can't speak much – go into too much detail for competitive reasons but can you give us any sense as to how we should look at it in terms of is this like a new legal entity that you guys are sharing equity? Or is this just a partnership with a revenue share? How should we look at it for modeling or valuation purposes? And what is the length of time of this agreement that you have with Globe? Let me try to keep it high-level.
This is a strategic partnership.
It does include reciprocal marketing.
It does include in some cases a sharing of some forms of revenue as well as some cost sharing.
So we've built the economics on this bilaterally.
That's what makes it unique and that's what's going to allow us to both go into market with something that is more aggressive than what has been seen thus far.
From a cost structure standpoint we obviously wouldn't be doing it unless we thought that on a combination we thought it had a strong net present value.
Beyond that it's difficult for me to get into any of the specifics of the terms of the agreement.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And you mentioned obviously you're going to target the Pakistani market at some market at some and the domestic (inaudible) is kind of two new initiatives.
With this new announcement with the Globe how much can the company handle this year? How many more partnerships might we see internationally? Or is that kind of what you're planning on doing for the balance of the year just from a time management point of view? We do have additional initiatives that are planned in the back half of the year.
The launch for the Pakistani market as well as some modifications to pricing to provide much better value for folks calling into Mexico and Central American mobile phones.
That’s a place that is an underserved segment as well as many of you are aware.
Those rate plans and those segment-marketing programs that's kind of part of our overall plan and has been going into the year.
So we expect to be able to execute those in a pretty straightforward way.
The major partnership kinds of activities like Globe those are larger undertakings to be sure.
We do anticipate additional activity whether it is in-market or not remains to be seen based upon the speed of contract finalization and the complexity of those products.
But we do have capacity in the back half of the year to do more than what we have currently announced.
I'll also make mention because I did in my earnings script we expect to launch an international long distance product.
We think about it as virtual or digital calling cards.
So this basically becomes a very competitive product to what you would see in the calling card market.
But delivered for many of those people in the US that still do not have Smartphones.
And it's still a very large substantial portion of the population that are ethnic that do have international calling needs that are underserved and we believe frankly are taken advantage of in many cases by some of the prevailing calling card vendors with a lot of hidden fees and others.
We think we can simplify that process and drive some volume there as well.
So we think that we have the capacity to execute all of those initiatives this year.
That’s great.
And just one last question.
Obviously you guys have done an incredible job de-leveraging the balance sheet.
Your net debt is only $25 million and gross debt is $80 million now.
De-levered at less than 1x cash flow.
The question is what do you think is the proper leverage for this company given based on your EBITDA and your CapEx guidance? It looks like you should do $50 million to $70 million in real free cash flow this year.
And in the event that you were to continue to generate the free cash flow with these initiatives working given how fast you've been able to de-leverage is there any possibility you put in place some fixed grade debt at a very low rate and use the – kind of rebounds the capital structure and repurchase shares or do something in the future? Yes Rob.
It's Barry.
Let me take that one.
We think about the capital structure really in two phases.
And as you point out we have low leverage now paying very low interest rates.
Less than 4%.
The first phase is really this year as we look at it.
As you know this is an investment year as we said before.
We are really primarily focused on driving organic growth.
We want to preserve the maximum flexibility in doing that.
We certainly don't have massive acquisitions on our radar screen but if there were some small acquisitions that we did to accelerate technology for example we think that would be an appropriate use of funds if they were to present themselves in appropriate economic terms.
So during the course of this year we see that the strategy is to maintain the debt capacity as opposed to take on debt.
I would also just point out we have a very valuable asset in our NOLs that were put in place last quarter with that recognition and we just need to be cognizant of accounting issues associated with that that really create more space by the end of this year.
So when you take all those things into consideration we look at this year as an investment year and wouldn't expect to lever up at this point.
Now on a go-forward basis as we continue to pay down the debt different capital structure alternatives is something that we would be open to considering.
The cash flows of the business certainly can sustain obviously much higher levels of debt.
So it is something that we would look to potentially do on a go-forward basis.
But we think about the capital structure in those two phases really for the balance of this year and then to preserve the potential debt capacity and then beyond that.
Great.
Thank you very much.
It makes sense.
Next question operator.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from Michael Rollins from Citi.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Two questions this morning.
First I was wondering if you could talk about where do you think the churn is going? So with some of the incremental churn that you've seen over the last few quarters what do you think is happening there? Are they leaving the category? Are they going to a competitor? And just your thoughts on the environment competitively.
And then sort of related to that if you look at the investment that you've made to expand retail distribution over the last 12 months why hasn't that been more accretive to the overall gross adds? So I suppose why are you gaining in one channel and do you think you're seeding some share in maybe some of the more traditional areas of where you've had success? Thanks.
Hey Mike.
It's Marc.
Good questions.
Thanks.
Let me take the churn question first.
So in terms of where we see churn going I personally feel pretty good that we did see the peak in January.
We've consistently been coming down in February March.
And I see ourselves going back into that mid-twos level.
I think that's a sustainable range going forward.
In terms of what's been happening there's a couple of different factors at work as is always the case.
One our experiment with leaving contracts completely obviously led to a higher level or churn during the course of the year.
We see that coming back into range.
In the fall of last year I will tell you that in some of the ethnic segments that we had done extremely well in Asian Indian in particular we had some very small competitors that came out with some aggressive pricing and before we responded they had churn and we got kind of a seven or eight week spike.
And as soon as we responded promotionally and put retention plans in place we were able to bring that back under control.
So that was a tactical issue relative to pricing and the lesson there is learned is you've simply got to be competitive with promotional rates as small folks come in.
You can't allow them even to bring in unprofitably – to get any kind of sustained levels of share.
The broader picture however is twofold.
One Hispanic market has a higher churn level on average versus the general market.
While they're ILD churn is still lower than domestic general market churn it is in fact higher.
As that becomes a larger portion of the base you see a little bit higher overall churn.
The second issue that we're facing and this is one that is macro and it's our job to offset that is what we have grown over the past two years the total number of international callers in our customer base to the tune of 100 000 subscribers of total growth we frankly – the domestic only light user is a group that is either moving to wireless only.
And we've got to do a better job balancing the revenue cannibalization or own revenue migration downward to those folks who are spending $25 and at that price getting great value.
But some are leaving us.
We still have an awful lot.
It's a large portion of our base.
But we've got to strike a better balance of how we're going to market and still attract what is roughly 60% of households in the US that still want basic low cost domestic phone service.
And I talked probably last fall about partnerships with third parties where we would white label our services.
Those conversations continue but as you might imagine some of the large mass merchants have some problems of their own.
And they're moving slower than we might like.
So we're going to have to under secondary brands and flankers make some moves to shelter versus our existing base and be a bit more aggressive on profitable domestic limited offer plans which we think become real complements to wireless.
So we believe that will help us grow both the top and over time minimize the amount of churn that we're seeing in the domestic only user base which is where our real churn spike has been.
On the second question around retail we have an unusual dilemma here which is as we've moved to ethnic segments our goal originally was we wanted to shift the vast majority of all of our selling online where it's fundamentally cheaper.
But a lot of the ethnic segments particularly Hispanic are less comfortable purchasing in an online environment at least in the near and short-term.
We expect that to move to more general market-like trends over the next couple of years.
But there is a strong demonstrated preference to purchase in face-to-face channels whether it be people that are local to the community or in big box retailers.
So that portion of the business has increased and we have scaled that to meet the needs.
And then what you see offsetting is the decline in what is the traditional domestic segments which were easier purchases online.
So we're seeing some of the online and inbound telemarketing channels soften as a percentage of the mix while some of the retail and face-to-face channels increase.
And just real quickly.
Did you do any price increases in the quarter or any that are coming up for the existing base in terms of fees charges and what that could represent with respect to incremental revenue opportunity? Thanks.
We have not taken any price changes in the quarter.
We do continuously evaluate opportunities for price changes both up and down as we look at individual segments going forward.
There are a couple of opportunities for additional pricing that we see over this next six to nine months as people continue to get extraordinary value from the combination of Vonage World and the extension services.
There may be additional opportunities for pricing.
But as you know we do those quite surgically.
We do them in a way to minimize potential churn risk and we do it against segments where we have a good appreciation for their stickiness with our core product.
So we are looking at those.
There are some opportunities that we see over the next six to nine months.
Thanks very much.
Next question operator.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) If there are no further questions operator we'll conclude the call.
Thank you for joining us today.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day everyone and welcome to Vonage Holdings Corporation’s second quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Just as a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Leslie Arena Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ms.
Arena.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Speaking on the call this morning will be Marc Lefar Chief Executive Officer and Barry Rowan CFO.
Marc will discuss the company’s strategy and progress we are making on our growth initiatives and Barry will review our financial results.
Slides that accompany Barry's discussion are available on the IR website.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks we will be happy to take your questions.
As referenced on slide two I would like to remind everyone that statements made during this call that are not historical facts or information maybe forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These and all forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations and depend on assumptions that maybe incorrect or imprecise.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
More information about those risks and uncertainties is highlighted on the second page of the slides and contained in our SEC filings.
We caution listeners not to rely unduly on forward-looking statements and disclaim any intent or obligation to update them.
During this call we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures is available on the IR website.
And now I will turn the call over to Marc.
Thank you Leslie and good morning everyone.
The second quarter was marked by a number of key accomplishments.
We reduced churn to 2.5% a 30 basis points improvement from the first quarter and returned to some of our best quarterly levels in the past four years.
Our balance sheet is stronger than it's ever been.
We now have essentially no net debt for the first time since 2007.
We grew EBITDA by $3 million sequentially to $35 million after investing $4 million in growth initiatives and although we were disappointed that circumstances led to the cancellation of the Amdocs ordering and billing project.
Our decision was made possible by the improvements in the stability and flexibility of our existing IT infrastructure over the past three years.
As a result we are also lowering our CapEx guidance for 2012 by at least $5 million to $10 million.
Across our growth initiatives we continue to make progress.
In international long distance we continue to reinforce the compelling value proposition of our flagship Vonage World plan to large growth segments such as Pakistan and Mexico with highly targeted sales and marketing campaigns.
And just this week we launched a new calling plan in the Philippines with our partner Globe Telecom delivering unprecedented value to the more than 3 million Filipinos living in the U.S.
We expect to announce at least one more partnership in the second half of the year.
In Mobile we delivered an important improvement to our Vonage Mobile App enhancing call and connection quality and adding key features including Bluetooth and the ability to share photos and locations.
In the next few weeks we’ll invite smartphone users to participate in the beta trial of our innovative mobile roaming solution as an important step toward a broader market launch.
Lastly based upon our progress over the past few years we have great confidence in the strength and sustainability of the company’s cash flow; combined with a pristine balance sheet and our belief that our stock represents a very attractive value the Board of Directors has authorized a share repurchase of up to $50 million to be concluded by the end of 2013.
This is consistent with our strategy of taking a balanced approach to capital allocation by investing in growth and returning value to shareholders while maintaining ample cash to fund the operational needs of our business.
Let me now move to a discussion of our financial and operating results.
Our financial performance remains strong as we generated $35 million in adjusted EBITDA.
Continuing operational improvements including lower cost of telephony services both domestically and internationally and a 6% reduction in customer care cost per line contributed to the sequential improvement in EBITDA.
Sequential revenue decline modestly and Barry will talk through the details in a few minutes.
Free cash flow increased by $23 million to $25 million up from $2 million in the seasonally lower first quarter.
Gross line additions or GLAs of a 163 000 were up 5 000 lines compared to a year ago.
Similar to last year we experienced seasonally higher media costs in the second quarter which elevated subscriber acquisition cost.
While GLAs for the full quarter were relatively flat sequentially acceleration throughout the quarter was encouraging and supported by the addition of Pakistan to Vonage World and the introduction of an enhanced plan with mobile minute to Latin America.
Our market test of [Basic Talk] a limited feature service designed to compete aggressively for the low end domestic calling market commenced in May with highly targeted marketing vehicles; resulted in positive and reinforced our belief that we can profitably address consumer’s needs for ultra low cost domestic calling.
We will continue our marketing testing during the third quarter and will update you in the future as we consider broader expansion.
Our retail channel driven primarily by community sales teams and in-store assisted selling contributed 25% to gross line additions in the quarter more than double the 12% added a year ago.
Our newly 50 community sales team representing roughly 350 sales people has doubled over the past year.
They are located in 16 states and have a presence in nearly every major market in the U.S.
as well as in Toronto and Vancouver.
Importantly this channel is enabling us to improve our effectiveness in reaching targeted ethnic segments.
Our strategy is to expand these pay-for-performance channels and overtime further reduce our dependence on traditional television media.
Churn was a great new story this quarter exceeding even our internal expectations.
We reduced churn to 2.5% from 2.8% continuing the reduction from the January peak.
The results were broad based standing virtually all segments and tenures.
Overall satisfaction including the impact of enhancements made to improved call quality and customer service levels over the past five months helps to reduce calls into our retention centers by 10% versus the first quarter and our success in retaining those customers that did call improved as a result of new competitive tools retention offers and policies.
In addition the early impact of service agreements which were put in place in February of 2012 contributed modestly to the results during the quarter.
We expect the strength in our customer churn profile overtime as the majority of new customers are now accepting service agreements.
As a result of the sustainable operational improvements we put at place and the fact the impact of service agreements will grow we expect to hold these games during the second half of the year despite the modest seasonal uptick that occurs during third quarter.
The lower churn enabled us to achieve breakeven net lines for the first time in five quarters.
Now let me shift to a more detailed discussion of our progress on our growth initiatives.
As I discussed with you on prior calls we are focusing our efforts to drive revenue in three major areas.
The first is international long distance; where we will build on our success through continued penetration of targeted ethnic calling segments and expanded distribution.
The second is mobile services which builds on the recently launched mobile platform and the third is international expansion as we enter new strategic markets outside North America and UK through strategic partnerships.
Our international calling base has grown substantially since the introduction of Vonage World in 2009.
Half of our customers are on Vonage World and 35% of all of our customers are active international callers.
The opportunity for additional growth remains robust; roughly 20% of all US households make international calls using a mix of both home and mobile phones.
The markets we are targeting represent tens of millions of potential customers and our large opportunities relative to the size of our business.
Hispanics by far the largest segment total 50 million.
The Asian Indian and Filipino population in the US exceed 3 million each and people of Pakistani decent total nearly 700 000.
All these segments spend heavily to keep in touch with family and friends abroad.
During the second quarter we expanded our focus to new markets such as Pakistan and in just nine weeks we added nearly 15 000 new customers growing our base fourfold.
In the third quarter we will continue to focus on improved sales and marketing tactics against Hispanics Asian Indian and Pakistani segments.
Further we believe that recent structural pricing changes in Mexico will enable us to better meet the needs of the majority of Mexican callers who frequently are gouged when calling to mobile phones.
And we expect to launch plans targeting additional countries as we have continued our success at reducing the cost of terminating calls to certain countries.
In addition we see meaningful revenue opportunities from our planned introduction of digital calling cards supporting light use customers and mobile phones and competing with traditional calling cards.
Beyond this we are developing support for cash payments which will expand our addressable market.
The global international long distance calling market for mobile phones is well north of $30 billion and the global rolling market is expected to grow to more than $65 billion by 2015.
Despite the pronouncements from carriers suggesting that they are improving their international long distance and roaming offers with new packages users are fundamentally dissatisfied as the price premiums remain three to 10 times the prevailing rates of in country calling.
Yet the true cost to [serve] simply doesn't justify their premium pricing their distance and cross border travel.
Large segments of these markets will shift to alternative solutions and carriers over the next three years.
We expect to compete aggressively in these markets.
Although our total mobile revenues are still small we continue to see growth in the use of our mobile services with more than 17% of Vonage’s international minutes now originating from mobile devices.
This is up from a base that was virtually non-existent a year ago.
Since initial launch of the Vonage mobile app in February we have substantially improved the service.
Based on customer feedback we significantly enhanced call quality and call completion rates and we've added new features including Bluetooth photo and location sharing.
Users can also now share of the app with friends on Facebook and Twitter from the app.
After seeing strong downloads for the first couple of months we did see the pace of downloads slow due in part the quality issues that impacted the number of app recommendations and invitations by friends to download.
We believe that most of the quality issues are largely behind us.
Our current app store and Google Play versions are rated 4.5 stars 4 stars respectively.
The next few weeks we will be launching data trial of our innovative patents pending low cost international roaming product which will allow customers to receive calls using their existing wireless number over WiFi when traveling outside their home country and thereby avoiding painfully high roaming charges.
Pricing is not yet been determined.
However this service has the potential to be immediately monetized upon its full launch.
Looking further ahead we plan to add off net messaging and video calling capabilities in the service.
Our extensions product which extends the benefits of our service beyond the walls of the home to any other phone including mobiles continues to gain appeal with our customers.
Roughly 560 000 customers have registered an extension and are now realizing increased value and convenience from its popular service.
The third plan of our growth strategy international expansion also represents a substantial growth opportunity for us.
As a global market for VoIP services is forecasted to grow at 7% annually between 2011 to 2015.
Our approach is to enter these markets through partnerships allowing us to enter markets more quickly and at a lower cost than going it alone.
Although much of the benefit of our partnership with Globe will be in the form of incremental GLAs in the United States it's a good example of the type of partnership we're pursuing elsewhere just 12 weeks after announcing our partnership we're in market with a plan that provides unrivaled savings to consumers.
The plan combines unlimited to all of Globe’s more than 31 million mobile and wireline subscribers together with advantages of ultra low per minute rates to all other numbers in the Philippines.
Additionally the plan provides unlimited calling to the US Canada Puerto Rico and 60 other countries around the world.
The Vonage extension service is also included for no additional charge.
The new plan is available now at a flat rate of $29.99.
With more than 3 million Filipinos living in the US the Filipino calling segment represents a substantial growth opportunity for Vonage and for Globe.
As we look to expand outside of North America we've carefully privatized the countries we're targeting.
Our team has identified three primary countries and several secondary countries where we are focusing our energies.
These target geographies can be generally characterized as large telecommunications markets that are experiencing rapid broadband expansion and a high usage based pricing for domestic and international long distance.
Additionally these markets may be undergoing significant changes in their regulatory or competitive environments making them increasingly accessible to VoIP service providers.
We have developed a range of product concepts we are exploring with prospective partners.
Ranging from opportunities to deliver our services on mobile devices to the delivery of full [void] communication services that will be marketed and distributed as a compliment to an existing foreign provider's products suite.
We are actively involved in discussions with prospective partners and expect to announce at least one additional alliance before the end of the year.
Let me now take a minute to elaborate on our decision to terminate our relationship with Amdocs the company that was developing new billing and order management system for us.
Over the past three years we have made substantial progress transforming our IT infrastructure.
While significant progress has been made overall as we discussed last quarter we have encountered delays and incremental costs during the development and implementation of the Amdocs system.
Following discussions with Amdocs and after assessing the improvements in our IT infrastructure along with deep consideration of the additional time and cost required to complete the implementation; we jointly agreed that terminating the program was within the best interest of both parties.
While we are disappointed this is the right decision for the company.
The incremental business benefits simply didn’t justify the incremental investment going forward.
Despite this change we believe we are well positioned to support our new and existing products and services well into the future.
To wrap up let met summarize very simply.
Our core business is financially stable and continues to generate significant cash flow.
At the same time we are making real progress executing on our strategic growth initiatives.
And I am pleased that this progress enables us to execute against our capital allocation strategy through the buyback of the company stock which we believe to be a great value.
Thank you once again for your support and I will now pass the call to Barry Rowan Thanks Marc and good morning everyone.
Marc has covered the strategic and operational highlights for the quarter.
And I am pleased to provide more detail on our financial results and outlook for the balance of the year.
Beginning on slide three adjusted EBITDA increased to $35 million up from $32 million sequentially and down from $44 million in the prior year.
As a reminder at the start of the year we said we plan to invest $5 million to $10 million per quarter in our strategic growth initiatives throughout 2012.
We invested $4 million in the second quarter which is slightly below the targeted range and lower than the $7 million invested in the first quarter which included marketing cost associated with the launch of Vonage Mobile.
As we've stated previously the investment in our growth initiatives is primarily focused on building organizational capacity development marketing new products and network and IT infrastructure.
Moving to slide four GAAP net loss was $3 million or a penny a share down from income of $14 million or $0.6 per share sequentially and $22 million or $0.10 per share in the year ago quarter.
The second quarter 2012 net income and EPS including one time non-cash adjustment of $25 million related to the write off of software assets associated with the termination of Amdocs contract.
I'll discuss this further in our review of capital expenditures.
Excluding this impact net income rose to $21 million or $0.09 per share from $19 million or $0.08 per share sequentially.
And declined from $26 million or $0.11 per share in the year-ago quarter reflecting our investment in growth initiatives this year.
Moving to slide five revenue of $212 million was down from $216 million sequentially.
About half of this decline was due to non-operational factors including lower universal service fund feeds and the accounting impact from legacy activation fees that the company discontinued in 2009 as well as plan mix and lower toll free revenue.
Revenue declined from $218 million from the year-ago quarter primarily due to lower average lines and lower legacy activation fees partially offset by higher USF.
Similarly ARPU was down sequentially to $29.98 from $30.42 due to the lower legacy activation fees USF and plan mix and declined from $30.28 in the year ago quarter due to plan mix and lower activation fee revenue.
Although we expect some near-term pressure on ARPU due to multiple factors we are targeting some selected pricing actions by year end and are introducing some higher price rate plans which we expect to mitigate this impact.
We continue to drive operational improvements across the company to lower our cost structure.
Slide six highlights our progress in reducing our cost of selecting the services or COTS even as we target ILD callers with higher usage and rates than domestic callers.
On an aggregate basis costs improved to $58 million from $62 million sequentially reflecting the continued reduction in both domestic and international termination rates and lower USF which is a passthrough expense.
Total costs were flat compared to the same period a year ago as we have offset the impact of international minute growth by substantially lowering termination rates.
We have reduced domestic and international rates by 33% and 5% respectively from the prior year.
On a per line basis cost of telephony services was $8.23 down from $8.68 sequentially and up from $8.03 a year ago reflecting higher USF costs.
Direct margins increased to 68% from 67% sequentially and were down slightly from 69% compared to the prior year’s quarter.
Going forward we expect to continue to offset the upward pressure on COTS inaudible) from our growing ILD base and mobile services by further rate reductions and greater efficiencies delivered by our intelligent call riding system.
Moving to slide seven we reduced SG&amp;A to $58 million from $62 million sequentially led by 6% lower customer care cost per line.
Calls in the customer care were down from the previous quarter and we continue to improve key customer care metrics including average handle time.
Customer satisfaction increased and we delivered our best quarter ever for first call resolution.
The decline in SG&amp;A also reflects lower expenses for Vonage Mobile as the first quarter included cost associated with the product launch.
SG&amp;A was flat versus the prior year's quarter as a 4% reduction in customer care and other expenses funded the increased investment and our growth initiatives this year.
Moving to slide eight.
Marketing expense increased to $55 million from $53 million sequentially and from $52 million in the year ago quarter as we absorbed the seasonal increase in costs from the first quarter and conducted some market tests during the quarter.
Turning to slide nine.
We are particularly pleased with the progress we made in churn during the quarter.
We reduced the number of customer calls into retention.
They increased our customer save rates and we began to see the early benefits for customers on service agreements which we reinstated in February.
Together these actions contributed to the 30 basis points sequential improvement and the resulting 2.5% churn is the best we have seen in four quarters.
We believe these gains are sustainable based on the operational improvements we've made and as we increased the number of customers on service agreements throughout the year.
Gross line additions or GLAs of 163 000 were up 5000 lines compared to a year ago.
Similar to last year we experienced seasonally higher media costs in the second quarter.
While we absorbed majority of this approximately 20% cost increase subscriber acquisition costs increased 4% sequentially to $336 and we are up less than 2% year over year.
As a result of the dramatic improvement in churn net lines improved by 19 000 over the first quarter to break even net lines.
As Mark mentioned this reverses four quarters of net line losses.
We will now move to a discussion of CapEx cash flow and the balance sheet on slide 10.
As we have discussed on prior calls our low CapEx requirement at less 5% of revenue contributes meaningfully to our free cash flow generation capability.
For the quarter CapEx was $4 million down from $9 million both sequentially and a year ago.
And going forward we believe we can manage the company to lower CapEx spending without comprising the investments necessary to run the business over the longer term.
I would like to take a moment to describe our plans and expected CapEx spending in light of the termination of the billing and order management project.
Let me begin with some context.
In 2009 we began transforming our IT infrastructure to better suit our business needs.
This was a broad undertaking which led to substantial improvements in our IT capabilities including the enhancement of existing systems improved application stability better data analytics to guide business decision making and an enhanced capability to quickly solve customer trouble tickets.
One component of this transformation was the development and implementation of a new billing and order management system with Amdocs.
As previously disclosed we experienced delays and incremental costs during the implementation of the Amdocs system and this quarter that terminating the program was in the best interest of our shareholders.
As a result we recorded a non-cash write-down of $25 million net of settlement amounts during the quarter.
We expect our capital expenditures will be less than what they would have been had we continued with this project beginning in the third quarter of this year.
Therefore we are reducing our full-year CapEx outlook from $40 million to $45 million to less than $35 million for 2012.
While we did not realize the benefits we had anticipated from the new billing and order management system we believe that the other substantial improvements to our IT infrastructure that have been achieved in combination with our planned capital expenditures leave us well positioned to support our products and service offerings.
Now let me turn to a discussion of our cash flow and balance sheets.
Cash from operations increased to $18 million from the seasonally low first quarter which is characterized by high working capital requirements.
This higher cash from operations combined with lower sequential CapEx increased free cash flow to $25 million from $2 million in the first quarter.
The planned reduction in CapEx will contribute and incremental $5 million to $10 million in free cash flow above the expectations we had at the beginning of the year.
As of June 30<sup>th</sup> cash and cash equivalents were $72 million up from $55 million sequentially.
In addition the company has restricted cash at $6 million.
We ended the quarter with a strong balance sheet reflected in total leverage to adjusted EBITDA of 0.5 times and with net debt approximately neutral.
Just over two years ago we were carrying more than $200 million in debt with interest rates as high as 20%.
And now we will be moving into a net cash position with interest rates of less than 4% on our remaining debt.
Our balance sheet is in very good shape.
Based on the strong balance sheet sustaining cash flow from our core business the NOL preservation plan we recently put in place and the attractive value of our stock we believe now is an appropriate time to begin returning capital to shareholders through a share repurchase program be announced this morning.
This $50 million buyback reflects our strategy of taking a balanced approach to capital allocation.
It provides a flexibility to continue to invest for growth while maintaining ample cash to meet the operational needs of the business.
So in summary we reported solid operational results for the quarter.
Our core business continues to generate strong cash flow and we expect to hold the significant improvements we made ensuring for the remainder of the year.
We also made progress executing on our growth initiatives in ILD mobile and international expansion.
To reiterate our outlook EBITDA guidance remains consistent as we expect 2012 adjusted EBITDA of $30 million to $35 million per quarter and $120 million to $140 million for the year.
This reflects the investment of $5 million to $10 million per quarter we plan to make in our strategic growth initiatives.
We continue to believe these initiatives have the potential to achieve over $100 million in annualized revenue within two to three years.
Regarding CapEx we lowered our spending expectation to less than $35 million from the previous guidance of $40 million to $45 million for 2012.
Thank you again for your interest in Vonage.
I will now turn the call back over to Leslie to initiate the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Barry.
Operator please open the line for questions.
(Operator Instructions) We have a question from Michael Rollins from Citi Investment Research.
Your line is open.
A couple of questions.
First I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the decision to stop the Amdocs project.
And if you could just help us with maybe a little bit more background of what went wrong and what this does to you in terms of capabilities that you are hoping to have or whether that you would revisit a new billing project with a new vendor and so some of the phasing is pending this year might just come back as you pursue this initiative with someone else down the road? And then I have a follow-up if that's okay as well.
So as we shared previously you know we've been adding this project quite carefully.
We've been sharing all along the way that we've had time delays relative to specific milestones in the project as well as incremental costs.
While doing that we've also been all along the way enhancing our existing systems and applications ability.
We've enhanced our data analytics with the implementation of EDW that helps us guide our decision making.
We've also implemented enhanced systems to solve customer trouble tickets.
We upgraded our customers and billing data bases as well as implemented virtualization and cloud computing technology.
The simple straightforward answer is the delays that we experienced as well as the incremental costs some related to stability of platforms as well as just overall progress and reliability of software we are taking longer and we are making progress against our core IT systems and as we look at projects on a regular basis on a go forward view we consider what was the additional timeframe to get to completion the additional cash we have invested and do not believe that that investment was worthwhile.
We are also confident by the fact that we've made tremendous improvements over the past couple of years.
We do not anticipate any major additional partners or deployments such as Amdocs.
We are comfortable that we continue to make enhancements within the capital expense profile very outlined that will help us to support existing products as well as those we anticipate in the future.
Well there are a couple of initiatives that we think will be a little bit slower to market they were not initiative that were material to our outlook for the current year.
And Mike if I can just build on to what Marc said regarding the CapEx requirements going forward as he said we do not have plans to implement a different a billing system and the CapEx requirements that we outlined were this year we’re lowering the CapEx expectations from $40 million to $45 million down to less than $35 million reflects both the organic expenditures that we would have had to make with regards to Amdocs as well as on the offset side of that some additional investments in our internal systems that we continue to enhance.
So that’s reflected in 2012; as we look out to 2013 of course we haven't given guidance for 2013 but we had been running CapEx in the $40 million range for the past several years you know I think that as we look forward to 2013 we expect that given this decision that we can see some continuing benefit from that lower CapEx relative to the historical spend in recent years.
And then just one follow-up if I could I think you mentioned the percent of mobile or the percentage of your voice traffic that was originating from mobile will you have that same percentage in terms of revenue and just how to think about you know the pace that which starting to monetize the mobile application? Thank you.
Overall mobile revenues as a percentage of total business Mike is still quite small.
The 17% minutes that are coming from originating traffic on mobile phones includes our mobile standalone initiatives as well as our extensions product where you are collecting a lot of those revenues in the overall Vonage World fees that improves churn as well as allows great stability in ARPU difficult to allocate specific dollar amounts the contribution that mobile minutes would make in that case but we view it is both strategic and critical going forward and expect that revenue number to increase overtime.
At the point it becomes [material] component of our overall revenues we will break that out and develop an ongoing plan to specifically report those revenues.
The next question is from Robert Routh of Phoenix Partners.
Your line is open.
Two quick questions first and obviously you guys are being granted few patents since June and I know it’s kind of a hidden assets you guys quite have that nobody gives much value just how should we look at your patent portfolio is there anyway to get a sense of how we should value them in terms of --?  I am going to introduce our General Counsel Kurt Rogers who is with us here and overseas our intellectual property strategy and plan and as per his thoughts.
Good morning.
So I think they way to think about our portfolio is it’s something we have over the past three years focused increased attention on its part of an overall comprehensive [IP] strategy.
We have significantly increased the number of applications we filed and now have nearly 100 applications pending in the US patent office and many applications pending overseas.
The three patents that were granted recently are part of that focus on IT and overtime we expect that our portfolio will continue to grow at the point where it does become material I am sure we will be sharing additional information on that but we do have increased emphasis in focus on growing that portfolio and in part that's a benefit of our expanded focus on research and development as part of our new growth initiatives.
I think it is this is Marc again difficult to place its specific dollar value on the patents that have been granted as well as those that are pending.
I think you should you think about them as both proactive patent strategy to be able to potentially assert our rights as we innovate in areas that are of global interest in rapid growth markets including mobile but also defensively so that we can clearly protect our interest in the event that other more aggressive parties have a bone to pick.
We think about the portfolio and building that portfolio from a defensive stand point as well and we are taking a pretty balanced approach but you can see over the last three years a market turnaround in the amount of activity filings and relevant patents that are being granted.
And also I kind of changing gear here how is the partnership obviously you have announced the first one and the announcement yesterday you know people waiting for you have one more new planning by the end of the year.
But on the last call you guys also hinted the possibility of partnering with one of your retail partners for positive we have a white label product or something like that I am wondering if you can give us any sense as to whether or not that still makes sense? And if so whether or not we could see something along the lines in the near term or about further in the future? Great comments thanks for bringing it up.
Service for those who were not with us last quarter it's something called Basic Talk and we have done a lot of research to understand what the underlying consumer need is for basic low cost domestic service strip down low feature service that fundamentally is a compliment to potential mobile applications and mobile services and we found that the majority of US households actually are interested in having a common identity or phone number with the convenience of cordless phones.
They just wanted at an exceptionally low price.
We have actually been testing quietly a version of Basic Talk during the quarter and have had very good results.
We are pleased with that we are expanding our test to understand better what the market potential is and how that will work with the Vonage portfolio of products.
In addition we do think that this is one where we want to go to the market with a very low cost of acquisition.
And to that end what we can do it extremely profitability we do think that the opportunity here to white label a service like this with a large retail partner whether that be bricks and mortar digital or both or potentially organizations with large affiliations makes a tremendous amount of sense because they have a captive audience they have foot traffic they already have shoppers and as we have tested the concept we believe it is something that is universally appealing and these are the kinds of disruption that some of these merchants have been known to do exceptionally well with.
So we continue our conversations at the point that we have something that is binding contract that would take us into at least the test market.
We certainly share that publicly.
In the meantime that's not a requirement for us to take advantage of this opportunity and that's why our marketing teams initiated the test in quarter and we will expand that in the third.
And then just one follow-up if I may given how good the results are and how dramatic the turnaround whether we see in this quarter relative to last year and sequentially can you give us any sense as to what you are seeing so far in July what have you seen since June 30 as far as is this continuing the stellar results that you are posting in [churn] reduction or if there are any kind of guidance you can give us there what are you seeing? As you will know the quarter is not done until the quarter is done and we have seen individual months that have significant variability in fact in the second quarter as I mentioned or alluded to in my script the quarter got to a great slow start in April and we were very positively impressed at the kind of turnaround we saw in the back half of the quarter.
We expect to have good momentum; we got a lot of initiatives in place including the launch of Globe the Philippines product they just launched.
We continue to accelerate our penetration of the Pakistani market and we are excited about some of the things we are seeing in Mexico and the structural price changes.
So we feel good overall about the plans that we have for the quarter but I don’t think it could be appropriate to share specifics on a three week window given that the speed with which things can change to the good or to the bad.
Next question operator.
Next question is from Mike Latimore of Northland Capital.
Your line is open.
On the cost (inaudible) services to line then improved sequentially could you talk a little about that is that going to be do you feel like that’s a stable metric going forward or with more international traffic that should end up a little bit how do you think about that metric? Yeah Mike its Barry.
We have been very pleased to see the kinds of reductions that we have as you know over the last couple of years with the strategic emphasis on international distant callers that have both higher rates than domestic callers as well as higher usage that certainly puts meaningful offered pressure on COTS and on a year over year basis it was relatively flat.
We saw a good sequential decline this quarter; that kinds of things that we are putting in place we expect to continue going forward.
I think the best way to think about COTS for the next number of quarters is that those are the puts and takes and that those ongoing cost reductions will offset that upward pressure as we continue to drive the calling base.
But as you see on a quarter to quarter basis it can go up or down.
So in general we feel like that I think the way to think about that is the ongoing cost reductions that we continue to push on will largely offset the upward pressure.
And then these international partnerships that you're working on are you collecting another one here? I mean to put the effort in you obviously assume some sort of revenue level.
I mean can be generally talk about the revenue levels you expect on these things to get a little more mature? Sure Mike.
Each individual partnership has different scale based upon the country and based upon the products.
So there is a wide range program by program.
As Barry talked about I think you know the total revenue of the portfolio of these growth initiatives over the 2 to 3 year timeframe we feel pretty good about the $100 million plus revenue target and you know beyond that it wouldn't be prudent to give specifics until we are in market and see what kind of customer traction we receive.
And then your subscribers that make international calls I think you said they are 35% of the total.
You know it's been there for about a year now.
With all the international efforts I would have thought that might have moved up a little bit in terms of in terms of a percent.
I mean what’s your general view on that percent does it start to move up overtime? Overtime we do expect that to increase (inaudible) at least modestly over the last four five quarters but as still overtime we expect that number to increase.
I think Mike if you look at on a longer-term historical basis certainly from a standing start before introduction of it on its world it’s grown very quickly to the 35% level but when you look at the kind of percentage of adds that are international callers over the last number of quarters on the world in total it is about 70% of gross line additions.
And a majority of those are international callers but still a substantial minority are largely domestic callers.
So with that relatively narrowing differential in the percentage of GLAs coming from international callers versus where we were a couple of years ago you are not going to see that continuing rate of change that we have seen over the last several years.
And just last on the basic talk is this the main difference between that and Vonage Lite kind of white label aspect there or something else? I am sorry could you just repeat that question please? Sure you had a low cost offering Vonage Lite in the past is the basic talk the main difference just sort of the white label aspect there? No there are other elements in terms of comprehensively how the product will be structured including much lower device.
Over time upon expansion we expect it to be a self service only and how we branded it likely to be quite different.
It’s not likely to be something just kind of starter plan simply to be up sold.
We view this as a this is a complete proposition it will be more aggressively priced in total in terms of cash out of the pocket than what we do with the test on Vonage Lite a couple of years ago.
And as you are well aware the domestic home phone market has become more aggressive in the last six months and we absolutely expect to be highly aggressive in this market.
Consumers expect us to be able to be the leader in that marketplace and we think we have got some ways to do that without creating tremendous revenue risk for our existing base.
Next question is from Matt Sherwood of Cooper Creek Partners.
I just had a quick question on capital allocation.
Just was wondering sort of what parameters you are likely to use in order to determine sort of how quickly you can pursue your buyback plan? Well first of all we are pleased to have the buyback plan in place.
We have been receiving comments from shareholders for a fairly long period of time over the last several quarters expressing your desire to see capital returned to shareholders through this mechanism.
So we do for the reasons that I outlined think that this is an appropriate time to do that.
The plan approved by the board provides for a buyback at $50 million through the end of 2013.
You know certainly looking at the stock price of late now taken in tandem with some of the internal factors we think that the stock represents a very good value.
So you know we would have plans to put those -- that program in place during the open trading window.
We just think we can do it this time and then move forward from there on the basis that is typical.
But bear in mind that perspective that we have is that of these prices being a good value.
Still I mean in that are you just going to say gee while we have the plan in place through 2013 we are just going to buy back ratably or if you believe that the stock’s very attractive relative to your operational turnaround of late could you buy back all the shares in the couple of quarters just without telegraphing your intentions you know how do you look at the options? Yeah I think the good news about that Matt is based on the strength of the balance sheet and the cash flow that we have we have the potential to execute the plan reasonably aggressively based on what we see in the market and the stock price.
I don't think it's appropriate for us to get into how fast we are going to we would spend the $50 million whether it's done ratably or not.
I think it's fair to say that the strategy is not necessarily to do it ratably but to do it we have the flexibility now with the plan that is in place that goes through the end of next year.
We have the cash to be able to begin that plan immediately and as typical we will report the number of shares that we acquire at the close of this quarter.
(Operator Instructions) I'm showing no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the call over to management for any closing remarks.
Okay thank you for joining us today.
We will conclude the call now.
Have a nice day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Vonage Holdings Corporation Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Just as a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Leslie Arena Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Speaking on our call this morning will be Marc Lefar Chief Executive Officer and Barry Rowan CFO.
Marc will discuss the company’s strategy and progress and Barry will review our financial results.
Slides that accompany Barry's discussion are available on the IR website.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks we will be happy to take your questions.
As referenced on slide two I would like to remind everyone that statements made during this call may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's expectations and depend on assumptions that maybe incorrect or imprecise.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
More information about those risks and uncertainties is highlighted on the second page of the slides and contained in our SEC filings.
We caution listeners not to rely unduly on forward-looking statements and disclaim any intent or obligation to update them.
During this call we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures is available on the IR website.
And now I will turn the call over to Marc.
Thank you Leslie and good morning everyone.
First let me express my hopes for a speedy recovery for those who have been impacted by [CLO] over the last couple of days and a sincere thank you for those people who have left their families to help others including many of our employees who have been trying to restore operations and help other families in their time of need.
We reported a solid third quarter marked by stability in our core business and steady progress executing on our growth initiatives.
We added 9 000 net lines driven by strong gross line additions and stable churn.
Gross line additions increased 5% sequentially as we acquired new international callers and continued the direct marketing test of our low end BasicTalk product which gained traction.
Churn declined to 2.5% down 20 basis points from a year ago reflecting improvements in customer satisfaction and retention processes.
Churn was flat sequentially as we offset the modest seasonal upward pressure traditionally seen during the third quarter.
We continued to invest for growth while generating substantial cash from our core business.
EBITDA was comparable to the prior quarter as we generated $34 million after investing $5 million in growth initiatives.
Through our intense focus on operational efficiency we reduced our cost of telephony services by 5% per line and lowered customer care costs per line by 4% from the prior quarter and an 11% from the prior year.
Customer care costs per line are now at the lowest level in the company’s history.
Over the past four years we have reduced domestic COTS and customer care expenses by a total of more than $140 million.
During the quarter we launched several key services in support of our growth initiatives.
These included a compelling new international plan for call to the Philippines through our partnership with Globe; an unlimited calling plan to mobile phones in Mexico; and the addition of Vietnam and South Korea to our flagship Vonage World plan.
In addition we fielded technical trials of our innovative mobile roaming capability.
And just last week we unveiled our new digital calling card service to meet the needs of light to medium-use international callers.
Market testing of our BasicTalk service targeting light-use domestic callers has been expanded to a two-city multi-channel trial based upon the success of our early direct marketing efforts.
In addition we executed on our stock repurchase plan announced in August as part of our balanced approach to capital allocation.
As of October 30 we had deployed $14 million in capital to repurchase 6 million shares of Vonage stock and we expect to repurchase additional shares in the fourth quarter.
We are on track to complete our $50 million buyback as planned while we invest for growth.
Reflecting on our focus on innovation we were granted three new patents in the quarter.
We now have 18 US patents and more than 100 pending US patent applications with more to be filed by year-end.
Approximately one third of the applications are mobile related.
We expect the number of patent applications we file this year to be more than triple the number we filed just two years ago.
This is clear evidence of the strong execution of our IP strategy to leverage increased development investments and our mobile initiatives.
I will now move to a discussion of our financial and operating results.
Our financial performance was solid.
Reflecting the stability of our core business we generated $34 million in EBITDA while investing in growth initiatives.
We continued to reduce our cost structure by implementing efficiencies throughout the business.
In addition to lowering the cost of telephony services and customer care costs per line we improved subscriber line acquisition cost or SLAC by 11% sequentially on higher gross line additions.
While new services and plans are starting to contribute to revenue total revenue declined 2% sequentially due to non-operational drivers such as lower universal service fee revenue as well as negative net line additions early in the year.
Gross line additions or GLAs increased to 172 000.
This improvement reflects our progress attracting new international callers and the very early success of direct marketing tests of BasicTalk.
Let me take a moment to discuss BasicTalk and our focus on the domestic calling segment.
With 40 million addressable domestic only callers the low-end market provides incremental opportunity for growth.
We have not aggressively targeted this segment in the past.
Results from our market test combined with proprietary research support our belief that we can profitably serve this customer segment.
59% of prospects indicate they were somewhat or very likely to buy a simple reliable domestic phone service at a $10 price point.
This result included customers who are currently in bundles.
When asked who would most likely provide this service respondents rated Vonage as the most likely provider among all incumbent telcos cable cos Google skype and MagicJack.
We are expanding the BasicTalk market test in the fourth quarter.
While continuing to market the offer through national direct mail we are also conducting a two market multi-channel test.
One leg positions this service as Vonage-branded; the other establishes BasicTalk as a new brand.
These tests are now underway in Boise Idaho and Springfield Massachusetts two markets with characteristics that align with our target customer income and whose ethnic diversity is in line with national averages.
Our advertising directly challenges other low end competitors and their exaggerated claims.
BasicTalk is positioned as the reliable straightforward high-quality choice from a brand you can trust.
Assuming market acceptance we will evaluate several national expansion strategies including the possibility of white labeling this service in partnership with a major retailer.
We are closely monitoring the market tests to maximize profitability and avoid cannibalization.
The success of our community sales teams combined with improvements in our assisted sales program in big box retailers is delivering an increasing percentage of gross line additions.
Sales through these channels contributed 26% of gross line additions in the third quarter.
This is our seventh consecutive quarter of growth in GLAs through these channels.
Through our relationship with Wal-Mart we plan to increase the number of stores with assisted selling from 80 at the end of September to over 200 by Thanksgiving.
If successful we plan to scale even more aggressively through the first half of 2013.
Importantly our retail efforts are enabling us to more efficiently reach large ethnic segments.
We expect the expansion of these pay for performance channels to reduce our utilization of traditional television media over time.
Churn continues to be a good news story.
We expect the broad-based improvements we have made to customer satisfaction and retention processes along with the reinstatement of service contracts to continue to contribute to churn stability over time.
In the fourth quarter however we may see some upward pressure on churn due to the recent and unexpected need to remove Pakistan as an unlimited country in our Vonage World plan.
As you may be aware the telecommunications authority and the Ministry of Information Technology in Pakistan ordered price changes across all carriers that increase the cost to complete calls to Pakistan by more than 500%.
This has made the cost of offering unlimited calling to Pakistan prohibitive.
We have already notified all impacted customers and we now provide highly competitive rates on a pay per minute basis across many of our rate plans.
This change might result in a one-time increase in churn of 10 basis points during the fourth quarter.
We do not anticipate any further churn impact.
Our strong growth in GLAs and overall improvements in churn resulted in 9000 net line additions up from break even lines sequentially and a loss of 9000 lines just a year ago.
I now like to move to a more detailed review of our progress on our growth initiatives.
As we have discussed previously we are focusing our efforts to drive revenue in three major areas.
The first is international long distance where we’re building on our success through continued penetration of targeted ethnic calling segments and expanded distribution.
The second is international expansion as we enter new markets outside North America and the UK through strategic partnerships.
And the third is mobile services.
The North American International long-distance calling market is substantial with roughly 18 million international callers in our addressable market.
With roughly one third of our 2.4 million customers currently identified as frequent international callers and with modest penetration in many of the largest ethnic segments we have meaningful opportunities to grow our international customer base including callers to Mexico and the Philippines.
In the third quarter we continued to refine our sales and marketing tactics.
We added unlimited calling to Vietnam and unlimited calling to mobiles in South Korea as part of our Vonage World plan.
We also introduced a new international calling plan Vonage World Mexico Sin Limites to provide customers with unlimited calling to land lines and mobile phones in Mexico.
We’re reaching international callers with ads in English Spanish [Urdu] Tagalog and Vietnamese all with messaging addressing the specific calling needs of these markets.
Our new testimonial campaign called closer to home features actual Vonage customers of different ethnicities talking about how Vonage allows them to stay emotionally connected with loved ones despite being thousands of miles away.
We are also continuing to focus on growing our market penetration in Canada.
High consumer pricing provides favorable conditions for low-cost providers like Vonage to drive penetration especially for domestic long-distance services.
And last week we signed an agreement with AARP as part of our initiative to expand our market presence through affinity relationships.
AARP members are individuals 50 years of age and older an important age group with a rapidly growing international long distance calling need.
This alliance will enable us to market our calling plans directly to their nearly 40 million members.
In addition Vonage will be highlighted in AARP’s magazine welcome kit discount programs and website.
This is the first of what we expect will be more affinity relationships.
Beyond this we see meaningful revenue opportunities from our newly launched Vonage Digital Calling Card.
Aimed at addressing a portion of the nearly 20% of international calls which are made using prepaid calling cards the Vonage Digital Calling Card offers a simple and convenient way for smart phone and feature phone users to save on international calling.
Users can easily create an online account prepay with a debit or credit card and immediately start saving on international calls charged on a low per minute rate.
This service offers rates approximately 75% lower than those offered by home and wireless carriers on international calls without the hidden fees and tricks of many traditional calling card services.
The second plank of our growth strategy international expansion also represents a substantial growth opportunity as the global market for VoIP services is forecast to grow at 7% annually between 2011 and 2015.
Our approach is to enter these markets through partnerships allowing us to enter markets more quickly and at a lower cost than going it alone.
The results of Vonage’s unique calling plan to the Philippines since its launch in July are encouraging and helped us to achieve positive net line additions in the third quarter.
This plan was the result of our first international partnership with Globe announced in May.
Our in language support using both Tagalog and English has helped to effectively onboard customers and although it is early we are seeing low return rates and low churn from this segment.
With more than 3 million Filipinos living in the US this segment presents a substantial growth opportunity for Vonage and for Globe.
Although much of the benefit of our partnership with Globe will be in the form of incremental GLAs in the United States it is a good example of the type of partnership we are pursuing elsewhere.
Other business concepts range from placing kiosks in foreign locations to providing a full suite of communication services sold and marketed by other companies.
We are in active discussions with several prospective partners in large international markets and expect to announce an additional alliance by the end of the year.
As I have mentioned in the past the global international long distance calling market for mobile phones is over $30 billion and the global roaming market for mobile is expected to grow to more than $65 billion by 2015.
Mobile is already a key component of our core business an important element of our international expansion strategy and mobility sits at the center of much of our future product roadmap.
Our mobile applications including Vonage Mobile Extensions and our new digital calling card address large attractive markets.
We have already enabled a substantial shift of our customers’ usage to mobile services.
Our Extensions product which extends the benefits of our service beyond the walls of the home to any other phone including mobiles continues to gain traction with our customers.
More than 620 000 customers have registered an Extension.
And since launching this product last July we have completed over 1 billion minutes of mobile originated Extensions calls.
More than 22% of our customers’ international calls in the month of September were initiated through mobile devices.
Users of our Vonage Mobile application continue to grow.
And while the pace of downloads has been below our expectations our active user base defined as those who have used the app at least once in the past 90 days grew more than 50% in the third quarter.
Active users are highly engaged with the application generating an annualized run rate that is approaching 200 million minutes of use.
We continue to enhance Vonage Mobile.
In the third quarter we launched a trial of our innovative low-cost international roaming product which allows customers to receive calls using their existing wireless number over WiFi when traveling outside their home country thereby avoiding home roaming charges.
We are not aware of anybody else who does this in the market today.
The technical aspects of the trial are going smoothly and we expect to launch this product more broadly along with other compelling features in the coming quarters.
While we continue to enhance our mobile platform there are three fundamental trends that shape our thinking as our mobile strategy unfolds in the coming months and years.
First the continued proliferation of WiFi networks and enabled devices combined with costly carrier data pricing over cellular networks is training customers to monitor cellular usage and shift their mobile media consumption to the lowest cost networks whenever possible.
This same sensitivity will cause customers over time to shift their core communication services such as voice and messaging as well.
Second it is becoming apparent that customers are beginning to reject the erroneous belief that they should reserve certain services for certain devices such as voice for a mobile phone.
They will certainly want multiple devices based upon the content they consider primary at the time that they are using it.
But they will expect that all of their services will work on any of their cloud connected devices.
In fact this shift has already begun.
And finally consumers are demanding a more complete on the go experience across all of their phone numbers personal and business user names and identities.
They want to be able to interact on any device from any identity regardless of whether it is their personal number work number or any of their many usernames.
They should be able to conduct business to be able to talk and message and video regardless of which persona and which device they are currently using.
Our existing mobile platform already provides the underpinnings to deliver this broader view of communications and many of the patents we have applied for cover many of these innovations.
The long-term strategy is to build on our current capabilities to provide a comprehensive Cloud-based communication service providing a legitimate compliment perhaps even an alternative to mobile network use in many situations.
In the coming quarters we will provide more detail on the specific road maps that enables Vonage to meet these emerging customer needs.
In summary we reported a solid quarter.
Cash flow from our core business remained strong we grew our customer base and churn is stable.
We are making inroads against our growth initiatives and have a number of exciting products and partnerships that have recently been launched and that remain on the horizon and we are executing on our stock repurchase plan as part of our balanced approach to capital allocation.
I’m looking forward to providing you with an update on our progress in future months and now I would like to turn the call over to Barry to review the details of our financials.
Thank you.
Thanks Marc and good morning everyone.
I am pleased to review our financial results and provide you with an update on our outlook and the progress of our share repurchase program.
Beginning on slide three we reported $34 million in adjusted EBITDA as our core business remained stable and continues to generate substantial cash.
The $34 million includes an investment of $5 million in growth initiatives as we increased marketing in support of our Globe Philippines market launch and invested in development resources for our mobile platform.
Adjusted EBITDA was reduced from the $40 million we reported a year ago.
As you will recall we said we plan to invest $5 million to $10 million per quarter in strategic growth initiatives throughout 2012.
Reflecting our disciplined approach to investments in growth initiatives we have invested $16 million through the first three quarters which is at the low end of our guidance.
Excluding spending on growth initiatives in international long distance mobile and international expansion adjusted EBITDA has been stable both sequentially and compared to the year ago quarter.
moving to slide four net income excluding adjustments was flat sequentially at $21 million or $0.09 per share and down from $24 million or $0.11 per share in the year ago quarter.
GAAP net income was $13 million or $0.06 per share up from a loss of $3 million or a $0.01 per share sequentially as the second quarter included the $25 million write-down of software assets.
GAAP net income declined from $16 million or $0.07 per share in the year ago quarter due to lower income from operations and the recognition of income tax expense in this year’s third quarter.
As a reminder in the fourth quarter of 2011 we released our valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets.
Beginning in the first quarter of 2012 we have recognized income tax expense an expense that had not been recognized prior to the reduction of the non-cash valuation allowance.
Moving to slide five revenue of $208 million was down from $212 million sequentially due in part to the non-operational impact of lower universal service fund fees as well as plan mix.
Revenue declined from $217 million year-ago quarter due to the lower average lines and plan mix as well as the accounting impact from legacy activation fees that the company discontinued in 2009.
As discussed on last quarter’s call we saw the anticipated pressure on ARPU in the third quarter which declined to $29.31 from $29.98 sequentially primarily due to lower USF fees and plan mix.
Similarly ARPU was down from $30.16 a year ago.
Recent targeted pricing actions we have taken and third-quarter positive net lines are expected to contribute to higher revenue in the fourth quarter.
While we are generating revenue from our growth initiatives it has not ramped as quickly as anticipated.
We expect the revenue contribution from these initiatives to increase as we expand our product offering in sales channels sign additional international partnerships and rollout new products in mobile.
Moving to slide six we continue to aggressively manage our cost structure and drive efficiencies throughout our business.
Following the substantial progress already made reducing our cost of telephony service or COTS this key COTS element declined further to $55 million from $58 million sequentially.
Driven by the USF pass-through the lower interconnect and domestic termination costs.
Total COTS declined from $59 million a year ago as we lowered domestic termination and interconnect charges more than offsetting the impact of international minute growth.
We further reduced COTS on a per line basis to $7.70 down from $8.23 sequentially and $8.25 a year ago.
Direct margins at 68% which were flat sequentially and from a year ago remained stable.
Going forward we expect to offset much of the anticipated upward pressure on COTS from ILD minute growth through ongoing termination rate reductions and other cost savings initiatives.
Moving to slide seven selling general and administrative expenses were $60 million up from $58 million sequentially due to the planned expansion of our retail channel including event teams and assisted in-store selling.
SG&amp;A increased a modest $1 million compared to the year ago quarter.
We have made substantial progress reducing customer care costs over the past several years which has offset a portion of the strategic investment in selling expense.
These cost reductions came while maintaining or improving our customer service levels.
During the third quarter we achieved best in class results for first call resolution a critical customer care metric that impacts the bottom line.
We have also seen improvements in other care metrics including customer satisfaction and average handled time.
Moving to slide eight marketing expense was $51 million down from $55 million in the seasonally higher COTS second quarter.
Marketing spend was flat compared to the year ago quarter.
Importantly we improved our subscriber line acquisition cost or SLAC as we added more gross lines.
SLAC decreased to $299 down from $336 sequentially and $300 in the year ago quarter.
This improvement was also aided by increased customer acquisitions through our lower cost retail channel.
Turning to slide nine during this quarter we increased gross line additions to 172 000 up from 163 000 sequentially and 170 000 in the prior year’s quarter.
We attracted customers to new and expanded international calling plans including our unlimited Philippines plan to Globe customers and calling plans to Mexico and Southeast Asia.
In addition we continued to have success attracting low-end domestic customers with our basic test – our BasicTalk market test.
As expected we held the improvements we made in churn in the second quarter as we reported sequentially flat churn of 2.5%.
This was down from 2.7% in the third quarter of 2011 as we benefited from ongoing improvements to customer satisfaction and improved retention processes.
Looking to the fourth quarter we expect stable sequential churn with the potential for the upward pressure on churn due to the removal of Pakistan from our unlimited Vonage World plan which Marc discussed.
Importantly higher gross line additions combined with stable sequential churn resulted in 9000 net line additions our highest net line additions in 16 quarters.
This is an increase from break even lines sequentially and a loss of 9000 lines in the prior year.
We will now move to a discussion of CapEx cash flow and the balance sheet on slide 10.
As we discussed on prior calls our low CapEx at less than 5% of revenue contributes meaningfully to our free cash flow generation capability.
For the quarter CapEx was $1 million which includes a reduction to CapEx from termination of our billing and ordering system discussed on our last earnings call.
We do expect CapEx to ramp in the fourth quarter to between $15 million and $20 million putting annual CapEx spend at $30 million to $35 million.
This is a change from our previous guidance for the year a quote less than $35 million and of course a reduction in CapEx flow through to free cash flow.
Cash from operations decreased $12 million due in part to working capital uses from the timing of payables.
As a result free cash flow decreased to $17 million from $25 million in the second quarter.
As of September 30 cash and cash equivalents including $6 million in restricted cash was $80 million up from $78 million sequentially.
We ended the quarter with a strong balance sheet reflected in total leverage to adjusted EBIDTA of 0.5 times and with net cash of a positive $9 million.
As you will recall less than three years ago we were carrying over $200 million in debt with interest rates as high as 20%.
We are now net cash positive with interest rates less than 4%.
The strength of our balance sheet and cash flow are fundamental to executing on our balanced approach to capital allocation.
As part of our focus on returning value to the shareholders we repurchased 4 million shares of our common stock for $9 million as of the end of the third quarter.
As of October 30 Vonage has repurchased a total of 6 million shares of its common stock for $14 million leaving the company with $36 million available under its current share repurchase authorization.
Notwithstanding the increase in the stock price since our last earnings call we expect to continue to buy shares during this quarter.
In summary we reported solid financial results for the quarter.
Our core business continues to generate strong cash flow and we expect to see a modest increase in revenue during the fourth quarter.
To reiterate our guidance for the balance of the year we continue to expect adjusted EBIDTA of $30 million to $35 million per quarter and $130 million to $135 million for the year reflecting the investment of $5 million to $10 million in the fourth quarter in strategic growth initiatives.
And we updated our expectations for 2012 capital and software expenditures to $30 million to $35 million from the less than $35 million previously.
Thank you again for your interest in Vonage.
I'll now turn the call back over to Leslie to initiate the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Barry.
Operator please open the line for questions.
(Operator instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Mike Latimore - Northland Securities.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
This is Ryan MacDonald on for Mike Latimore.
First question is can you kind of elaborate more on the lower ARPU in regards to this shift in the plan mix.
Is this kind of the mix we should expect going forward? Yes Ryan it is Barry.
We did see this pressure on ARPU that we had anticipated.
As you know historically Vonage has been able to maintain and in some cases increase ARPU over previous years.
As I mentioned in my part of the remarks we do expect ARPU to increase and revenues to increase in the quarter that we are currently in the fourth quarter and that is driven by some very tactical targeted pricing that we are taking that we – which is similar to what we have done in the past.
And we also do see some impact on ARPU from some marketplace conditions.
For example we continue to refine our retention plans and adjusting those to really respond to what we need to do there and with the BasicTalk product that Marc described which certainly carries a lower ARPU we have done market testing of that.
As we move forward with that product we view that as a market that is really in addition to what we have been able to attract historically.
So we will monitor that carefully and our expectation is that we will be able to add gross line addition through targeting that lower end part of the market versus if we had not focused on it.
In addition a number of the new products and services including the plan to Philippines our AARP affiliation as well as some of the other international plans those tend to be at the higher end of the spectrum.
So really what you are seeing is a mix effect and as Barry said we would expect to see higher ARPU in the fourth quarter.
Okay and then so then with – of these kind of growth initiatives that you talked about with the Philippines and the AARP and BasicTalk which do you see being the most impactful or the biggest revenue generator for fiscal ’13? It is still little bit early to handicap how large BasicTalk will be in 2013 until we get results from the market rentals.
We are bullish about the potential of that low end market.
If we can get the SLAC and investment cost right and/or procure the right partner we think that could be quite large but that is more speculative than is the approaches to individual segment marketing within our flagship Vonage World or new high-end rate plans.
So I would be looking at BasicTalk results carefully but look for the primary growth to be in our core International growth and then in our growth initiatives as we have previously given guidance.
Okay and then just a follow up question so if BasicTalk is able to ramp up like you would hope what type of effect do you think this would have on ARPU? Well by definition it would reduce ARPU but the thing you should be looking at then is total revenues because obviously it is a lower end marketplace that is enormous in size and if we can – and we believe we can attract that market at a proper acquisition cost which gives us solid NPV you would want us to invest and grow that business as aggressively as possible.
And that is why as we have talked in the past you really want to stay focused on long-term service revenues and compartmentalize the different segments to which we are marketing and think about those ARPUs uniquely.
The same thing can be said for digital calling cards the same thing can be said for mobile.
You need to look at that as a percentage of the mix.
Our core flagship Vonage World plan is a flat rate unlimited plan and by definition that is going to have a higher ARPU.
If we can get those other markets incrementally that is going to serve total revenues but the core mathematics of that would result in a softening of ARPU.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Good quarter.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions) I’m showing no additional questions.
I would like to turn it back to Leslie Arena for any closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
Have a nice day.
Good bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude your conference.
You all may disconnect and have a good day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Vonage Holdings Corporation Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Just as a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Leslie Arena Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ms.
Arena.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2012 earnings conference call.
Speaking on our call this morning will be Marc Lefar Chief Executive Officer and Barry Rowan CFO.
Marc will discuss the company’s strategy and progress and Barry will review our financial results.
Slides that accompany Barry's discussion are available on the IR website.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks we will be happy to take your questions.
As referenced on slide two I would like to remind everyone that statements made during this call may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These and all forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations and depend on assumptions that maybe incorrect or imprecise.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
More information can be highlighted on the second page of the slides and contained in our SEC filings.
We caution listeners not to rely unduly on forward-looking statements and disclaim any intent or obligation to update them.
During this call we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to GAAP is available on the IR website.
And now I will turn the call over to Marc.
Thank you Leslie.
Good morning and everyone and thank you for joining us on the call today.
I am pleased to have the opportunity to review our results for the fourth quarter and 2012 with you.
Before I review our results and discuss the announcements we made this morning I would like to briefly provide context on the meaningful progress we've made throughout our business.
For the past five years we fundamentally transformed our company operationally financially and strategically.
These changes have resulted in a swing of nearly $200 million in EBITDA and free cash flow.
Our focus on operations as a result of a greatly improved cost structure we reduced network and domestic termination costs by 63% and international long distance termination rates are down 30%.
In addition we've reduced customer care cost per line by 50% resulting in $50 million in annual savings.
Perhaps more importantly we've been able to execute these structural cost enhancements while significantly improving our call quality and customer service performance.
We've also dramatically improved our balance sheet resulting in strong stable cash flow and significant interest expense savings.
Our previous two refinancings in December of 2010 and July of 2011 resulted in interest savings of $48 million annually.
Strategically we shifted our primary focus to the rapidly growing but under served ethnic segments in the United States with international calling needs.
We deployed a robust mobile platform that delivers high-quality voice and messaging services and we started to pursue international expansion opportunities which began with our partnership with Globe in the Philippines.
We're committed to delivering shareholder value and growing our business.
While we’ve made progress towards these objectives much work remains to be done.
This morning we made three exciting announcements.
The first is a new $145 million credit facility which provides us with additional liquidity and enhanced flexibility to invest in growth.
The second is a new $100 million share repurchase authorization.
And the third is our international joint venture with Datora in Brazil.
Each of these announcements is representative of the progress we continue to make to execute on our strategy to build shareholder value.
Let me describe these important developments in more details.
Capitalizing on the current low interest rate environment and our strong financial position we’ve increased the size of our credit facility to include a $70 million term loan and a $75 million revolver.
For the third consecutive refinancing we reduced the interest rate and are now paying 3.375% an enormous improvement from the 20% rates we were paying just three years ago.
We appreciate the continued support from the banks involved in making this happen including JPMorgan Chase Royal Bank of Scotland Silicon Valley Bank and KeyBanc.
With ample cash to fund the operational needs of our business we now have enhanced flexibility to execute on our balanced approach to capital allocation.
As part of this balanced approach and reflecting our confidence in the company’s stable cash flow and strong balance sheet the Board of Directors has authorized a new program to repurchase up to $100 million of shares by the end of 2014.
This new authorization is in addition to the $33 million or 14 million shares we repurchased since beginning our buyback program last August.
We continue to believe that buybacks and effective use of capital to create shareholder value.
Since announcing the plan our stock has appreciated by 35%.
The announcement of our joint venture with Datora to deliver communications services in Brazil was many months in the making.
This agreement marks a major milestone in our international expansion strategy and is a second international partnership we have entered into in less than one year.
Brazil is a particularly attractive opportunity for Vonage for several reasons.
The market is very large and growing rapidly with 67 million households and broadband penetration that already exceeds 17 million.
In addition there are more than 1 million ex-pats and a vibrant small business community.
The government supports a pro-consumer regulatory environment and has a deep commitment to expand broadband access in advance of the 2014 world cup and 2016 Olympics.
Broadband penetration is expected to more than double over the next two years.
These factors provide highly favorable conditions for Vonage to drive penetration in a market dominated by relatively high priced service providers.
Founded 20 years ago Datora Telecom is a diversified licensed telecommunications provider of innovative voice and data solutions for carriers in Brazil and around the world.
A communications pioneer Datora was the first company to operate VoIP services in Latin America and the first telecom provider in Brazil to be issued a mobile virtual network operator license.
Datora has a significant physical presence in Brazil with points of presence in the country’s most important economic centers and more than 200 interconnection agreements with leading carriers around the world.
Their in market knowledge existing regulatory approvals and local interconnection capability combine well with our strong IP platform and deep experience in VoIP.
We look forward to working with our new partner to build a successful long-term business.
Let me now turn to results for the full year.
During 2012 we strengthened our core business and customer base while also investing in growth to drive revenue.
We generated $135 million in adjusted EBITDA for the year after our investments in growth initiatives.
We achieved these results which were at the high end of our guidance for the year in large part through a continued focus on improving our cost structure.
For the second consecutive year we reduced total cost of termination or COTS; total cost declined 2% even as we absorbed the 12% increased in international minutes of used.
The savings were driven by a 32% reduction in domestic termination costs combined with lower international termination rates.
In addition we reduced customer care cost per line by 7% in 2012.
This improvement is on top of 11% reduction in 2011 and the more than 20% reductions in 2009 and 2010.
Over the course of the year we lowered churn by 30 basis points from 2.8% in the first quarter to 2.5% in each of the last three quarters of the year.
Improvements in customer care and retention processes combined with value added features like extensions contributed to the gains.
For the year line losses were a modest 15 000 lines half of what they were in the prior year.
Our customer base is stable.
2012 is our fourth consecutive year of profitability excluding adjustments and our third consecutive year of positive free cash flow.
In the past three years we have generated more than $350 million in free cash flow; but it was not long ago that we were unprofitable and burning cash.
During the year we conducted extensive market trials for our flanker brand BasicTalk drove significant customer adoption of our mobile extension service and introduced several services targeting new ethnic segments including our partnership with Globe to serve Filipinos.
We learned a great deal during our technical trials of the mobile roaming feature and a number of active users and paying customers on Vonage Mobile is accelerating.
Having achieved financial and operational stability our teams have also rekindled the spirit of innovation that is our heritage.
In 2012 the US Patent and Trademark Office awarded Vonage seven new patents and we filed 59 patent applications nearly triple the number filed just two years earlier.
More than one-third of those applications were mobile related.
In total we now have 20 US patents 39 foreign patents and 233 pending patent applications.
We remain confident in the potential of the markets we are targeting.
Before I move to a discussion of our growth initiatives let me briefly highlight our results for the quarter.
Barry will provide further details in a moment.
Our fourth quarter financial results were strong.
Revenue grew 3% sequentially to $214 million driven by targeted pricing actions and higher international calling revenue.
This progress more than offset the modest ongoing ARPU compression due to promotions and rate plan mix.
EBITDA was stable sequentially at $34 million after investments of $7 million in growth initiatives.
While we continue to add new customers to our international calling plans and BasicTalk in the fourth quarter these gains were offset in the short-term by the anti-competitive decision of the government of Pakistan.
In an unprecedented action the Telecommunications Authority in Pakistan increased the cost to complete international calls by 500% leaving us no choice but to remove Pakistan from our unlimited Vonage World plan.
As the value proposition changed Pakistani subscriber line additions declined.
This in addition to Hurricane Sandy contributed to a reduction in gross line additions in the fourth quarter to a 152 000 from 172 000 sequentially.
Although most of the churn impact was offset by improvements in other calling segments the total impact from Pakistan resulted in a 15 000 net line reduction from the third quarter.
Adjusted for the impact of Pakistan net additions for the quarter would have been positive and flat versus the third quarter.
Churn continues to be a good news story declining to 2.5% from 2.7% a year ago.
And we held the gains from prior quarters resulting in stable sequential churn.
We are pleased with these results and especially in light of the higher churn in the Pakistani calling segment.
With our core business stable and generating substantial cash we continue to focus our efforts on driving revenue in three areas.
The first is in our core North American markets where we will use a two pronged approach.
We will continue to differentiate by providing extraordinary value in international long distance while targeting underserved ethnic segments.
We plan to pursue the low end of domestic market with the BasicTalk brand.
The second area of growth is international expansion outside of North America through strategic partnerships like Globe and Datora.
The third is mobile services which we view as a strategic enabler of the company's entire product offering.
Let me first talk about our core North American business.
During 2012 we continue to strengthen our customer base as we increased the percentage of international long distance callers to 40% at year end.
International callers are attracted to our flagship Vonage World plan and to our expanding number of country specific calling plans.
Targeting the substantial market opportunities for customers calling Mexico and Southeast Asia we were the first provider to offer unlimited calling to mobiles in both Mexico and South Korea.
We've also experienced solid growth among callers to Philippines as part of our partnership with Globe.
On the distribution front our mass merchant and community sales channels are driving strong results.
To improve productivity in our mass merchant stores and the expansion of the face-to-face sales teams we’ve increased the percentage of gross line additions acquired through these channels from 8% beginning of 2011 to 30% by the end of 2012.
Sales from our assisted selling initiative replaced Vonage sales reps in mass merchant locations to proactively engage customers on ramping.
We increased the number of stores with assisted selling from [50] last August to more than 300 by year end and expect to implement assisted selling in over 600 stores by June.
In addition we now have nearly 375 sales agents organized in community teams selling Vonage services directly to consumers and targeted ethnic segments.
We've a presence in nearly every major ethnic market in US and are expanding in Canada.
While we have focused heavily on international callers over the last few years the domestic only calling market with 40 plus million broadband households remains the large opportunity.
Over the past several months we've been testing a low price domestic calling plan under (inaudible) brand BasicTalk.
The results of our market test and proprietary research support our belief that this customer segment presents a large incremental market opportunity for light users and security conscious households often with poor in-home wireless coverage.
Results from two test market suggest the number of potential subscribers in this market segment could be as large as Vonage’s core business across all other rate plans combined.
We anticipate national expansion to begin later this spring and while we plan to deliver a simple easy-to-use digital sales and service experience we're also in late stage negotiations with a very large national retailer with keen interest in broad distribution and proactive merchandizing.
Let me turn to our second growth initiative international expansion.
Last May we signed our first partnership with Globe in the Philippines delivering unprecedented value to more than 3 million Filipinos living in the US.
We continue to add customers to our Philippines calling plan with Globe and 2012 results tracks generally with our expectations.
We have built upon that progress with the announcement of our joint venture with Datora.
In addition we are in active discussions with other prospective international partners in a country that we have targeted for expansion.
Our final growth initiative is mobile services.
Consumers demand mobility and it’s become essential to all of our development priorities including enhancement to our core services international expansion opportunities and of course standalone products.
Over the past 18 months we have built a robust mobile platform that has the ability to deliver high quality voice messaging and coming very soon video communication across wired and wireless data networks for devices running iOS and most Android devices.
Our platform is differentiated and now enabled both on-net and off-net calling unlike some newer market entrants and we don’t require the customer to use a new identity like Skype.
Customers already have multiple identities communities and phone numbers and we are focused on enabling seamless communication across multiple identities and multiple cloud connected devices even those that are not inherently voice centric.
Our patented extensions products create a unified international calling capability home and mobile.
It’s been a widely successful and in only 16 months 28% of our entire customer base signed up to use Vonage on their mobile phones and 24% of all of our international calls now originate from a mobile phone.
We are also rapidly enhancing the standalone Vonage mobile app.
Over the past few months we have been conducting technical trials of our unique international roaming product in four countries in Western Europe.
We expect to further improve and expand this service in the next several months.
Downloads of our core Vonage mobile applications continue to grow.
Although we are behind our original internal expectations we are encouraged that downloads usage and the number of paying customers are not just growing but accelerating as a result of recent product enhancements.
Our recently launched digital calling card for mobile phones make use of the same platform and now puts us in direct competition with traditional calling card services.
Before passing the call to Barry I would like to provide some perspective on our outlook for the future.
As I’ve discussed previously our top priority is driving quality revenue growth.
We are confident in our strategies and during 2013; we will continue to build on the foundation that we have been laying.
We will continue to invest in targeted ethnic segments commercialize our BasicTalk product line in the US enhance our mobile product capabilities build out our service offering in Brazil and pursue other international partnerships.
As stated previously we believe that these initiatives can contribute at least a $100 million in annualized revenue by the fourth quarter of 2014.
If our Brazilian partnership achieves the results we expect it alone can meaningfully contribute to this objective.
To support these initiatives we planned to continue to invest $5 million to $10 million per quarter throughout 2013.
If we see the opportunity to drive growth even more aggressively for product such as BasicTalk we will do this prudently.
Our decision is based of evidence of traction in the market and we will manage this investment with the same financial discipline that we had exercise throughout our financial turnaround.
We will provide additional information regarding our progress against these initiatives and our expectations for ongoing investment levels as the year unfolds.
CapEx was less than $30 million during 2012 the substantial reduction in the $40 million level of the past couple of years.
We expect to spend $30 million to $35 million in capital expenditures during 2013.
We look forward to updating you on our progress in the coming quarters and we thank you for your support in Vonage.
And now I would like to pass the call to Barry.
Thanks Marc and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to discuss our financial and operating performance with you.
I would like to begin with the review of our new debt facility and share repurchase plan.
With the objective of continually improving our balance sheet we determined that our strong financial position and the attractive debt markets provided an opportunity to further optimize our capital structure.
Late last year we began the process of identifying financing alternatives and last week we closed on a new $145 million facility consisting of a three year $70 million senior secured term loan and a $75 million revolver.
This credit facility has been enhanced in several important respects from the refinancing put in place in July of 2011.
First we've increased the size from $120 million to $145 million.
Second the revolver component has increased from $35 million to $75 million with a low annual carrying cost of 45 basis points.
Third we've reduced our interest rate from the already low LIBOR plus 3.75 rate to LIBOR plus 3.125 and further we are able to modify the debt covenants to facilitate a larger stock buyback.
This new facility also provides increased flexibility to invest in organic and inorganic growth.
Our balance sheet remained strong and conservatively leveraged.
As of December 31 2012 pro forma for the financing we were $37 million net cash positive with a leverage ratio of 0.6 times.
As Marc discussed Vonage’s Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $100 million of our common stock by the end of 2014.
This new authorization replaces the prior $50 million plan and is in addition to the $33 million or 14 million shares we’ve purchased since beginning the program last August.
With ample cash to fund the operational needs of our business and the enhanced flexibility of the new credit facility Vonage is well positioned to execute its balanced approach to capital allocation.
Let me now move to a discussion of our financial results; 2012 was a solid financial year for Vonage.
We continued to drive structural cost reductions throughout the company while concurrently investing in growth initiatives to increase future revenues.
Reflecting this ability of our core business we reported our fifth consecutive year of positive adjusted EBITDA and our fourth consecutive year generated adjusted net income on a modest decline in revenue of 2%.
Operationally our core business continued to perform well as we reduced churn by 30 basis points during the year and narrowed our net line losses by 50% from the prior year to just 15 000 lines.
While we are not yet generating meaningful revenue from our growth initiatives we achieved several milestones which we expect will contribute to revenue in the future.
These include our first international partnership with Globe in the Philippines growth in time percent of our base to make international long distance calls and a growing number of users on our mobile platform.
In addition to the operational improvements the changes we have made to our balance sheet contributed to our already strong cash flow.
In 2012 interest expense was reduced by $11 million from 2011 and by nearly $50 million annually from three years ago.
Lower interest along with a decline in CapEx of nearly a third from 2011 and partial use of our $800 million in net operating loss carry forward enabled us to generate $93 million or $0.42 per share in free cash flow for the year.
Let me now move to a detailed review of our financial performance beginning on slide three.
In the fourth quarter we generated adjusted EBITDA of $34 million which includes $7 million and investments in growth initiatives.
Adjusted EBITDA was flat sequentially as continued reductions in customer care cost per line offset the higher investment in growth initiatives which increased from $5 million in the third quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA declined from $40 million in the year ago quarter reflecting the planned investment in our growth initiatives.
For the full-year adjusted EBITDA was $135 million down from $168 million in 2011 reflecting the $23 million investment in growth initiatives and lower revenue.
Through an aggressive focus on driving operating efficiencies we reduce total cost of telephony services by 2%.
In addition we further reduced the average unit cost of our device by approximately 10% and reduced customer care cost per line by 7%.
Moving to slide four in the fourth quarter we reported net income excluding adjustments of $23 million or $0.10 per share down from $26 million or $0.11 in the prior year and up from $20 million or $0.09 sequentially.
Net income excluding adjustments declined for the full year to $84 million from $99 million 2011.
As you can see on slide five total revenue for the quarter of $214 million was up from $208 million sequentially due to a targeted pricing action taken in the fourth quarter and higher universal service fund fees.
Revenue declined less than 1% from a year ago quarter.
On an annual basis total revenue declined to $849 million from $870 million in 2011 primarily due to a shift in plan mix as we continue to meet customer’s needs by offering a range of calling plans.
Revenue was also impacted by a $3 million reduction in deferred revenues from legacy activation fees.
These fees were largely phased out in mid-2009 but are amortized over a customer’s life and impacted both 2012 and 2011 revenue but have no impact to EBITDA.
For fourth quarter ARPU was up sequentially to $30.15 from $29.31 reflecting a targeted pricing action taken in the fourth quarter of 2012 and down from $30.19 in a year ago quarter due to mix as we met customer demands with new calling plans including Basic Talk; our low end domestic calling plan.
On an annual basis service ARPU decreased to $29.89 from $30.35.
Please turn to slide six.
While we are pleased with continued growth in gross line additions to our assisted sales initiatives these gains were offset by declines in other areas.
The removal of Pakistan from our Vonage world plan which Marc discussed contributed to the decline.
We added 152 000 gross line additions for the quarter down from a 172 000 sequentially and a 169 000 in the year ago quarter.
For the year gross line additions declined by 3% to 653 000 from 672 000 in the prior year.
While we added more lines to our low cost channels lower overall line additions contributed to a increased and Subscriber Line Acquisition Cost or SLAC of $347 in the fourth quarter which is up from $306 a year ago.
For the year SLAC increased to $326 from $304.
Churn was a very good news story throughout the year declining from 2.8% at the beginning of 2012 to 2.5% in the fourth quarter reflecting improvements in customer care and retention processes and higher customer satisfaction.
We expect churn to be roughly stable in that 2.5% range for 2013 although results may fluctuate slightly from quarter-to-quarter.
The combination of lower gross line additions and significantly improved churn resulted in the reduction of net line losses for the year from 30 000 to the 15 000 that Marc mentioned.
We have made substantial improvements to our cost structure over the past five years and continue to implement operational efficiencies throughout 2012.
Moving to slide 7 in the fourth quarter direct cost of telephony services or COTS was $57 million up from $55 million sequentially due to higher USS fees which are a pass through and down from $59 million in year-ago quarter as a result of lower domestic and international termination cost.
On a per line basis COTS was $8.02 up from $7.80 sequentially and down from $8.24 in the fourth quarter of last year.
Direct margin increased to 69% up from 68% sequentially and in the year ago quarter.
For the second consecutive year total cost of telephony services was a good news story.
We again reduced total COTS lowering cost to $232 million from $236 million in 2011 driven largely by a 32% decline in domestic termination costs per line.
Going forward we will continue to focus on improving our cost structure as we look to realize efficiencies from our next generation call routing platform continue the enablement of peering and direct connect relationships and look to the potential benefits from numbering rights and reductions associated with inter carrier compensation.
On slide eight selling general and administrative or SG&amp;A expense was $62 million up from $60 million sequentially and up from $59 million in the year ago quarter due to the expansion of the company's assisted selling channels.
This increase was offset by reductions in other G&amp;A including a reversal executive stock compensation expense.
On an annual basis SG&amp;A increased $8 million or 3% to $242 million during 2012.
The increase is due to our strategic investment of an additional $10 million in expanded sales channels.
As in the fourth quarter this investment is offset by a reduction in other G&amp;A with a substantial portion of these savings coming from improvements and our customer care operations.
Since 2008 we have lowered SG&amp;A by $57 million annually or 19% as we have made operational improvements in virtually every area of our business.
Moving to slide nine; marketing expense increased to $53 million up from $51 million sequentially due to expansion of retail channels and other marketing expenses.
For the year marketing expense increased to $8 million or 4% to $213 million due to targeted investments to reach ethnic calling segments and the market testing of the company's low priced domestic calling plan.
Now let’s move to a discussion of our CapEx cash flow and balance sheet.
For the third consecutive year we generated significant cash flow.
This was the result of the combination of ongoing operational improvements the benefit of our debt refinancings and lower CapEx.
Moving to slide 10 capital expenditures for the quarter were $12 million resulting in CapEx spending of $27 million for the year.
We expect to spend $30 million to $35 million in capital expenditures during 2013 still well below the $40 million level of the prior two years.
We generated $93 million in free cash flow for the year and we exited 2012 with the strongest balance sheet in the company's history.
Cash at year-end including $6 million in restricted cash was $103 million.
On a personal note this will be my last earnings call with Vonage and I would like to thank you for your support of the company and for me personally during my three years here.
It’s been a privilege to work with Marc the Board and the great people at Vonage and I am grateful for the opportunity to have met with our investors and analysts so frequently.
I leave knowing that Vonage is much stronger financially with a solid balance sheet and a stable customer base and is strategically focused on some attractive and growing markets.
Thank you again for your support.
And thank you Barry.
I'll turn the call back over to Leslie to initiate the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Barry.
Operator please open the line for questions.
(Operator instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Michael Rollins with Citi Investment Research.
Your line is open.
Just a couple of housekeeping items and then more of a high level question.
Just a housekeeping first do you have an update on what the specific USF tax and fees number was? Secondly what percentage of net ads or gross ads in the quarter may have come from the BasicTalk I realized it’s in a select number of markets and just been a limited trial for you guys just curious if there is a number to put on that? And then just more strategically did you talk more about the partnership in Brazil that you announced.
Where is that company historically been positioned in the marketplace in terms of customer target segments and how fast should we expect to ramp there and I realized you talked about the totality of your growth programs having the revenue go by the end of ‘14 but just trying to think about the milestones we should be tracking as we watch over the new partnership you announced today? Thanks.
Mike let me take the first question on USF and then I will turn over to Marc to handle some of the more strategic question.
USF for the quarter was $19.7 million up from $17.7 million sequentially of which that's the $2 million that I spoke to.
And 277 per line up from 250 per line in the prior quarter.
Mike relative to BasicTalk.
We continue the trend that we've had previously.
We haven't disclosed specific volumes driven by the direct marketing trial that we started in the third quarter nor what’s been a relatively small two market trial although it is nationally representative in terms of the samples they are very two micro markets so the absolute number of GLA’s in those two markets during the trials would not be material to gross adds during the period.
Relative to Datora their primary source of revenues has been largely wholesale interconnection.
They have got points of presence in most of the major Brazil economically dense or population dense markets and they have got interconnection agreements with several hundred international carriers.
In terms of our progress and timelines we don’t anticipate material revenues of this calendar year.
We have a tremendous amount of work to be done to actually implement and operationalize both the organization as well as OSS/BSS and network operations.
We see significant opportunities however both with increasing broadband penetration as well as increasing mobile penetration for a full suite of products over the long haul that parallels many of the places we have been successful in the US over the past couple of years.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Matt Sherwood with CCP.
Your line is open.
Just had a question for you on the contribution margin you are expecting from the growth projects.
I know that core business does high 60s percent contribution margin and it would seem like if you are spending $20 million to $40 million on the projects you would expect the same from the growth business just wanted to understand how you are thinking about that?   Well each of the business is really quite different in terms of contribution margin and we think about this very much in terms of the investment we make to acquire our customers.
We have got some of the investment you see in the $5 million to $10 million investment which is kind of a long-term upfront investment a lot of that is people and development expense could be amortized over the life of these programs.
As you think about the BasicTalk product which is probably the one that is largest and most current and people looking for parallels.
The gross margins are actually quite comparable to what we expect we will get today from our core products.
Obviously the ARPU itself is quite a bit lower but with domestic cards being relatively low and cost to serve is also quite low.
We have also seen although it’s a limit experience in our test markets the churn levels on these customers tend to be quite low as well.
Interestingly we are actually seeing in the trail markets not just people that are turning off and getting out of bundles as part of their conversion we've actually seen roughly 25% of the new gross adds in these test markets are coming from people who previously cut the cord so actually taking numbers and adding new service.
So you really do believe this is prop really interesting opportunity.
As we look to the international markets its probably a little bit early to talk about gross margins on Datora we are not talking specifically yet about the products we could be offering but you can think about the offering with Globe and the Philippines as again comfortable plus or minus 10% to what the range of our additional rate plans happen to be and mobile the gross margins really vary by uses by countries.
Since it’s very much an international long distance business it varies by competitor.
However the acquisition cost to acquire subscribers is exceptionally low.
So the contribution marks we do receive has a very high return on investment.
And then one final question.
Do you have any sort of pro forma churn without Pakistan because you just said the effect on net lines and you didn't break it down between gross and churn.
Yeah it’s a good question.
So I think what we said and is really kind of where we will leave it is we maintain flat churn despite having had significant churn of the Pakistani segment and the total impact GLAs and churn combined was in excess of 15 000 net lines in the fourth quarter versus the third.
Right.
But I mean 15 000 net lines if they were all on churn which I know it isn't but that would be like a 1.9% churn which would be incredible so just trying to sort of dimensionalized it.
Yeah the majority of the short fall was in gross line additions.
We have a follow-up question from the line of Michael Rollins with City Investment Research.
I just thought I would throw another question for you.
I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit more about how you've come to the decision to pursue share repurchase relative to your dividend options or other possible uses of cash and with the change in the replacement of the old credit facility for the new financing that you have how should the buy side think about your appetite for financial leverage even if you don't do an acquisition but just organically pursue opportunities from here.
Thanks.
Just to provide some context; as you know we have embarked on what we’d describe as a balanced approach to capital allocation now that the company has achieved the kind of cash flow levels that we have.
When we think about balancing that really across four quadrants first is maintaining adequate cash in the business obviously.
Secondly is having some cash available to do buybacks.
Thirdly is investing in organic growth which we do to the $5 million to $10 million a quarter; and fourthly is to provide some dry powder for appropriate acquisitions as those may arise.
So that really is the context.
With regard to the stock buyback versus dividends we looked at that you know the puts and takes on that are that dividends clearly are essentially a committed return of capital to shareholders notwithstanding major changes in the business.
But on the other hand the share buyback offers some additional flexibility.
But I think I would also point out that the Board and the company take these announcements very seriously.
The fact that we announced the $50 million share buyback last August which we expected to execute before the end of 2013.
You can see that we were on track to achieve that well in advance of that.
So the company is going to follow through on those kinds of commitments.
So that's how we think about dividends versus buybacks and the new credit facility does offer some additional flexibility.
We are very pleased to now to increase the size of the facility from the $120 million to $145 million but we were able to significantly enhance the revolver component of that based on the company's financial performance and the long standing really quality relationship with these four banks that Marc thanked in his script.
We were able to increase the revolver component from $35 million to $75 million; that is undrawn currently.
So we have drawn the $70 million term loan used that to retire the $43 million or so in debt that was on the books before that.
So we now have the $75 million undrawn facility that will provide flexibility for acquisitions.
So with regard to the overall capital structure I think we still remain relatively low leverage but we can put it that at this point it didn’t make sense to lever up dramatically to do a share buyback for example but to take on the amount of leverage that we did that enables us to announce a very meaningful buyback of $100 million over the next two years.
The possibility still exist for the company to add leverage if appropriate under right set of conditions and for the right set of opportunities.
(Operator Instructions) There are no further questions operator.
We will conclude the call.
(Operator Instructions) That’s it operator.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude your conference.
You all may disconnect and have a good day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Vonage Holdings Corp.
First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Leslie Arena Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ms.
Arena.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Speaking on our call this morning will be Marc Lefar Chief Executive Officer and Dave Pearson CFO.
Marc will discuss the company’s strategy and progress and Dave will review our financial results.
Slides that accompany Dave’s discussion are available on the IR website.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks we will be happy to take your questions.
As referenced on slide two I would like to remind everyone that statements made during this call may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These and all forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations and depend on assumptions that maybe incorrect or imprecise.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
More information about these risks and uncertainties is highlighted on the second page of the slides and contained in our SEC filings.
We caution listeners not to rely unduly on these statements and disclaim any intent or obligation to update them.
During this call we will be referring to non-GAAP measures.
A reconciliation to GAAP is available on the IR website.
And now I will turn the call over to Marc.
Thank you Leslie and good morning everyone.
I’d like to begin by welcoming Dave Pearson our new chief financial officer.
Dave joined Vonage from Deutsche Bank where he was head of their global media and telecom group.
Prior to Deutsche Bank Dave worked at Goldman Sachs for nine years.
Dave brings deep knowledge and leadership experience in the telecom and wireless industry that will be invaluable as we continue to execute on our strategic growth priorities.
We are thrilled to have him onboard.
David welcome to the team Our financial results for the first quarter of 2013 were solid.
We generated $34 million in adjusted EBITDA $2 million higher than the prior year and flat sequentially.
During the quarter we continued to execute on our balanced approach to capital allocation by repurchasing shares and we are on target to complete our $100 million buyback by the end of 2014.
Operational results for the quarter were mixed.
We continued to implement structural improvements that drove operating efficiencies.
We significantly reduced the number of calls in the customer care an indication of a better overall experience.
And our churn rate of 2.5% is down 30 basis points from the prior year.
Churn has been stable at this level for four consecutive quarters.
Although gross line additions of 148 000 were softer for the period than we expected we did see encouraging results from our growing assisted sales and community sales channels as well as from our new BasicTalk flanker brand.
Net line losses improved by 7000 from prior year to 12 000 due to the 30 basis point reduction in churn.
Our focus on structural cost improvement led to reduced expenses in a few major areas.
For the fourth consecutive quarter we lowered customer care costs through ongoing process and design improvements.
We reduced cost per line by 17% over the prior year while improving many key service metrics.
First call resolution which measures the percentage of time that we successfully resolve customers’ issues the first time they call increased to 78%.
An average call handle time was lowered by 7% versus a year ago to an all-time low.
Further the total number of calls in the customer care declined by 8% from the prior year.
Customer care costs per line are now at the lowest level in the company’s history.
We also reduced the total cost of telephony services excluding universal service fund fees by 10% from the prior year more than offsetting the increase in international long distance minutes from our growing desks of international long distance callers.
We see additional opportunities to reduce cost of telephony services in the future.
We’re especially encouraged by the SEC's recent notice of proposed rulemaking to allow voice providers like Vonage to have direct access to their own telephone numbers.
And we appreciate the SEC's grant to Vonage of the numbering trial to be conducted concurrently with the rulemaking.
If the proposed rules are adopted they will facilitate the shift to direct IP to IP interconnection and enable potential long-term structural cost-savings in the double-digit millions of dollars in the subsequent two to three years.
Let me move now to a more detailed discussion of our progress in our core North American markets our international expansion and mobile services.
Over the past several years we’ve had strong success attracting international long distance callers to Vonage World and we remain focused on strengthening our international calling base.
In the first quarter we added new subscribers to our Sin Limites unlimited calling plan to Mexico and we recently introduced a new calling plan Vonage World Plus to meet the demand of customers who have increased international calling.
This premium plan offers all the benefits of Vonage World plus additional minutes to mobile phones in many of the countries where unlimited calling to landline is already offered as well as calling to countries that were not previously included in Vonage World.
Total customer additions to our international calling plans however were flat for the quarter as we worked to offset the negative impact of a temporary inventory replenishment issue in a large retailer and the removal of certain calling destinations including Pakistan and Vietnam from Vonage world late last year.
In addition total GLAs were impacted by the planned slowdown of BasicTalk testing in anticipation of our upcoming national launch.
Leading some of these pressures were strong results from our retail channels including our assisted sales teams.
Retail sales grew to 25% of gross line additions as we increased the number of stores with assisted selling to 525.
We continue to expand this channel and are on plan to meet our 600 store target by June.
In addition we now have 375 sales agents and community teams selling Vonage services directly to consumers in nearly every major ethnic market in the U.S.
and in several Canadian markets.
This is our 11<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter of gross line growth in these two channels.
As we look toward the remainder of the year and 2014 we expect to reduce our marketing investments in broad reach television which will allow us to invest in digital media.
A more efficient and effective way to target ethnic segments.
Specifically we will use contemporary techniques such as audience buying and digital retargeting.
We will also expand our investment in search.
At the same time we will shift money away from less efficient direct mail efforts to fund the continued expansion of our alternative distribution including community and assisted selling programs.
Beyond improvements in our mix of marketing vehicles we will continue to create new plans to reach additional international calling segments including mid to light use callers and we will continue to drive penetration of the recently launched World Plus plan developed at the request of our community sales teams who are experiencing good solid results.
Let me now take a few minutes to talk about our exciting new flank brand BasicTalk.
We will launch BasicTalk nationally over the next few weeks and anticipate that it will be a meaningful contributor to gross line additions and revenue growth.
BasicTalk is a low-priced home phone service with unlimited calling throughout the U.S.
for a flat rate of 9.99 a month and includes the basic features of voicemail caller ID and call waiting with no upfront costs no hidden fees and no contract.
With an emphasis on digital sales and service our reengineered device and the cost structure improvements that we have made during the past few years BasicTalk will be a profitable addition to our product portfolio.
With more than 40 million households that have existing home service and broadband but only call domestically this ultra-price-sensitive market provides a significant incremental opportunity for us.
In multiple test markets we learned from non-Vonage customers that despite increasing cell phone usage there still remains a strong desire for a simple low-cost domestic home service.
Customers cited many reasons for purchasing BasicTalk including the convenience of having shared home phone extensions and the inconvenience of misplaced cell phones dead batteries and poor in-home cell phone coverage.
Customers also told us that they liked the added security of always having a phone within reach and for 9.99 a month the decision to buy was simple.
Most buyers view BasicTalk as a complement to their cell phone.
In fact a surprising 22% of the customers who signed up for BasicTalk in our initial test markets had previously cut the cord.
Our in-market testing supports our belief that we can meet the need for a very simple ultra-low-cost phone service under a new brand with minimal cannibalization of the Vonage customer base.
We will launch BasicTalk with a significant multimedia marketing campaign driving customers to low-cost distribution channels and supporting them with online customer service after purchase.
One important element in BasicTalk’s national expansion is our exclusive relationship with Wal-Mart.
BasicTalk will be sold in Wal-Mart stores nationwide and will be supported with in-store merchandising including uncap (ph) displays in approximately 1000 stores.
We are delighted that Wal-Mart shares our enthusiasm for this product in this category and appreciate their confidence in the BasicTalk service.
We are very excited about the potential for BasicTalk and I look forward to updating you on our progress next quarter.
International expansion is a core element of our revenue growth strategy as well.
We continue to acquire new customers as part of our partnership with Globe in the Philippines.
And in February of this year we announced our second international partnership a joint venture with Brazilian-based Datora Telecom.
As we discussed previously Brazil is a particularly attractive opportunity for Vonage for multiple reasons.
The market is very large and growing rapidly.
With 20 million of its 67 million households already connected with broadband Brazil also is home to more than 1 million expats that has a vibrant small business community.
The government supports a pro-consumer regulatory environment and is committed to expanding broadband access in advance of the 2014 World Cup and 2016 Olympics.
As a result the broadband penetration is expected to double over the next two years.
These factors combined to provide highly favorable conditions for Vonage to drive penetration in the market dominated by relatively high price service providers.
Three months after announcing this venture we are making steady progress building the foundation to deliver communication services in Brazil.
We’ve completed the technical design for a cloud-based network architecture and have developed plans for the implementation of our billing and customer care platforms.
In addition we are in the process of hiring a team to manage and operate the business.
We are on target for commercialization by year-end or early 2014 and we remain optimistic about the opportunity to drive meaningful revenue through this partnership in 2014.
While most of our focus on international expansion this year is on building our business in Brazil.
Discussions with prospective partners in other countries targeted for expansion continue to advance.
And we will provide information on these opportunities as they get closer to fruition.
Mobile is another core element of our growth strategy and is essential component of core service offering international expansion opportunities and stand-alone products.
The Vonage mobile platform has enabled expansion into new markets outside of the U.S.
strengthened our relationship with existing customers through our patented extension service and attracted new mobile only customers to Vonage.
We continue to make great strides improving the quality capabilities and appeal of the Vonage mobile app.
With our launch two weeks ago of video calling we brought together the most popular features of mobile communications into one simple high quality multifunctional app.
Vonage mobile now has the level of completeness and quality that is unsurpassed by any other communications app in the market.
Vonage mobile users can communicate with each other in whatever manner they might voice video or messaging and unlike other apps the Vonage app makes the use of existing mobile identity and contact list and with Vonage users can also make calls to phones without the app at international calling rates that are 70% to 80% less than major mobile carriers and on average 30% less than Skype.
We are seeing positive response to our quality improvements and feature additions.
The app has received 4.5 stars in the iTunes app store 4.2 stars in Google Play and the average length of video calls is high suggesting very good call quality.
The number of downloads active users and revenues continues to grow.
In the coming months we expect to incorporate our international roaming feature Reach Me Roaming into Vonage mobile with a commercial launch in select countries in Western Europe and North America.
Our mobile extension service continues to be widely popular.
More than 700 000 of our customers are realizing increased value and convenience from this feature which extends the benefits of our service including low-cost international calling beyond the walls of the home to any other phone including mobiles.
As a result 26% of our international calls now originate from a mobile phone.
This extensive extensions also reinforces the importance of continued integration of our traditional business with our highly flexible and scalable mobile platform.
Our Vonage global phone card a digital calling card for mobile phones leverages the same mobile platform and provides an additional path to penetrate the international calling market.
Before the end of the second quarter we will enhance the global phone card to enable customers to purchase on the web and then use the Vonage mobile app to make pay-per-use calls.
This provides enhanced flexibility and increased savings to customers.
Later this year we will expand the global phone card service to include physical cards sold at retail locations.
Innovation will play a key role in the ongoing success of our growth strategies.
Building on our momentum from 2012 and leveraging our investments in research and development we have continued to grow our intellectual property portfolio.
Thus far in 2013 we've filed 34 patent applications and we've already been granted six patents more than we were granted in all of 2012.
Before I provide guidance I’d like to update you on the new $100 million stock repurchase plan announced in February.
We have made strong progress.
In the first quarter we repurchased 6 million shares for $16 million with 11 million of those repurchases made under our new authorization.
Since beginning our buyback last August we’ve repurchased 18 million shares for $44 million through the first quarter and the stock has responded well.
We continue to believe that share repurchases are a good use of cash to drive shareholder value and we are on target to execute the $100 million program by the end of 2014 as planned.
Revenue growth remains our top priority.
In 2013 we will invest in the key priorities I have just reviewed.
We expect our ongoing investments in international expansion mobile to be in the range of $5 million to $10 million per quarter.
For mobile this includes investment in development and G&amp;A as we strengthen the capabilities of our mobile platform and prepare for our roaming launch.
It also includes investments in digital marketing behind the enhanced global calling card platform.
For international expansion this includes investments in the buildout of our team and system as we establish our business in Brazil.
Beyond this we expect to invest an incremental $5 million to $7 million in the second quarter to support the national rollout of BasicTalk including national television digital media public relations and in-store merchandising to build awareness and drive traffic for this new brand.
A significant portion of this investment will be success based allowing for acceleration or moderation of spending based upon our progress.
With this launch investment we anticipate BasicTalk will contribute meaningfully to the company's overall growth and we expect positive net line additions in the third and fourth quarters.
Of course we will exercise the same financial discipline that enabled our turnaround over these past several years and we will closely monitor our progress and adjust our investments accordingly.
We continue to expect our growth priorities to contribute $100 million in annualized revenue at the end of 2014.
We look forward to providing you with an update on our progress.
With that I will pass the call to Dave.
Dave once again welcome to the team.
Thanks Marc and good morning everyone.
Let me begin by saying how thrilled I am to be joining Vonage.
I really admire the company's business since the announced turnaround over the last several years.
I am excited about Vonage’s future and the opportunity to help shape its strategic direction and contribute to its ongoing success.
I look forward to meeting with many of you on the call in the near future.
With that I am pleased to review our financial results and provide you with an update on our outlook.
Beginning on slide 3 we reported $34 million in adjusted EBITDA which includes an investment of $6 million in growth priorities.
We invested in development resources for our mobile platform again to build out of our international business in Brazil invested in technical support and platform development for our nationwide launch of BasicTalk.
Adjusted EBITDA increased from the $32 million we reported a year ago due to lower cost of telephony services costs and reduced customer care costs as Marc mentioned.
Adjusted EBITDA was flat sequentially.
Moving to slide four net income excluding adjustments increased to $21 million $0.10 per share up from $19 million or $0.08 per share in the year ago quarter and declined from $23 million sequentially.
GAAP net income was $13 million down from $14 million in the year ago quarter due to higher income tax expense as the year ago period included a non-cash deferred tax adjustment of $4 million for certain stock compensation previously considered non-deductible.
GAAP earnings-per-share of $0.06 was flat year-over-year and sequentially.
Moving to slide five revenue of $200 million declined from $216 million a year ago due in part to the non-operational impact of lower universal service funds or USF fees which contributed $2.5 million of the decline.
Operationally the decline was driven by lower subscriber lines and the expansion of lower priced plan offerings to meet customer needs.
Revenue declined sequentially from $214 million due to the same factors.
ARPU declined to $29.61 from $30.42 in the prior year primarily due to lower USF fees and the expansion of lower-priced calling plans.
Similarly ARPU was down from $30.15 sequentially.
While we expect the growth in the number of customers taking BasicTalk to impact ARPU we expect this new initiative to generate incremental revenue.
Moving to slide six we continue to make structural cost reductions and implement efficiencies throughout our business.
Following the substantial progress we made in prior years to reduce costs we further lowered this key component of our cost structure to $55 million from 62 million a year ago.
This was due to a decrease in domestic termination and international termination costs and lower interconnection and collocation costs.
Lower USF fees which are pass-through also contributed to the decline.
Total costs declined from $57 million sequentially due largely to lower USF fees.
Cost per line declined to $7.82 down from $8.68 a year ago and $8.02 sequentially.
Direct margins rose 20 basis points from the prior year to 69% and were flat sequentially.
We expect to deliver additional savings in costs in the future periods through the cost management and savings from direct access to telephone numbers.
Moving to slide seven selling general and administrative SG&amp;A expense was $63 million up $1 million versus the year ago and sequentially due in part to assisted in-store selling in the retail channel and our expansion of community sales teams.
We’ve made substantial progress reducing customer care costs while maintaining or improving our customer service levels.
These improvements only reduced costs but also helped to lower churn.
Moving to slide eight marketing expense was $52 million down from $53 million a year ago and sequentially.
Subscriber line acquisition costs or SLAC increased to $349 from $323 a year ago and $347 sequentially on lower gross line additions.
Turning to slide nine due largely to the issues Marc discussed including an inventory replenishment issue in certain retail locations GLAs declined from 148 000 down from 165 000 in the prior year's quarter and 152 000 sequentially.
As expected we held the improvements we've made in churn throughout 2012 as we reported sequentially flat churn of 2.5%.
This was down from 2.8% in the first quarter of 2012 as we benefitted from improvements to customer satisfaction and retention processes.
Looking to the balance of the year we expect churn to be stable at these levels.
Lower gross line additions combined with stable sequential churn resulted in loss of 12 000 net line additions in the quarter.
I will now move to a discussion of CapEx cash flow and the balance sheet on slid e10.
As discussed on prior calls our low CapEx requirement of less than 5% of revenue contributed meaningfully to our free cash flow generation capability.
For the quarter CapEx was $4 million which was primarily for the purchase of hardware and systems for the buildout and improvement of our network.
Free cash flow in the first quarter was $5 million up from $2 million in the year ago quarter due primarily to lower CapEx.
Free cash flow declined from $49 million sequentially expecting seasonality in working capital due to timing of vendor payments and certain recurring payments in the first quarter including annual maintenance renewals and compensation related payments.
Reflecting the strength of our core business cash flow generation cash and cash and cash equivalents as of March 31 were $110 million including $4 million in restricted cash.
We ended the quarter with strong balance sheet reflected in total leverage to adjusted EBITDA of 0.6 times and with net cash of $27 million.
The strength of our balance sheet and cash flow are fundamental to executing on our balanced approach to capital allocation.
Our repurchase program is an important component of that approach.
In February the Board of Directors authorized the program to repurchase up to $100 million of our common stock by the end of 2014 replacing the previously announced $50 million repurchase plan.
During the first quarter we repurchased a total of 6 million shares of our common stock for $16 million 11 million of which was under the new $100 million plan.
The stock has appreciated substantially since announcing the initial buyback last August and we continue to believe our stock represents an attractive value at these prices.
With an ample cash to fund the operational needs of our business Vonage is well-positioned to execute its balanced approach to capital allocation.
In summary we reported solid financial results for the quarter.
Our core business generates strong cash flow and we are investing in growth priorities in our North American markets international expansion and mobile.
And we are returning value to shareholders through our repurchase program.
Regarding guidance as Marc referenced we expect total spending on international mobile growth priorities in the second quarter to be in the range of $5 million to $10 million and we expect to spend an incremental $5 million to $7 million in support of our nationwide launch of BasicTalk.
We may choose to increase or reduce the level of investment depending on progress and success of our initiatives.
We to continue to expect 2013 capital and software expenditures to be in the range of $30 million to $35 million.
Thank you for your interest in Vonage.
I will now turn the call back over to Leslie to initiate the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Dave.
Operator please open the line for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And we do have a question from the line of Michael Rollins from Citi Investment Research.
A couple of questions for you.
First if you look at the gross line additions on slide nine can you talk about the impact that BasicTalk has on the 148 000 in 1Q’13 and maybe talk about what some of the changes you are seeing in distribution productivity for the core business? And then secondly if you could talk a little bit about a little more from the trial in terms of what you're seeing with respect to the risk of existing home replacement customers or Vonage customers moving to BasicTalk is that something when they see those price points or they see that brand they look at there is an opportunity to try to save money or the features of what you provide in the full-fledged Vonage product showing to be a significant point of retention for those customers? Hey Mike it’s Marc.
I will take that.
So looking at BasicTalk quarter over quarter so as you move from the fourth quarter to the first quarter volume of BasicTalk as you know last year we were doing a couple of different trials.
We had launched nationally via direct mail in the spring going to people who had previously rejected the Vonage proposition in other marketing materials for people that cancelled us.
And we built the run rate and then we saw there was some real success in that business people who were not taking our product but were anxious in BasicTalk.
We then expanded in a couple of test markets during the course of the third and fourth quarter.
As we look at all of those GLAs relative to Q1 we did come off of the gap in the first quarter largely because we were preparing for our national launch.
We haven’t given specific breakout but BasicTalk was off a couple hundred sorry couple of thousand GLAs quarter over quarter that represented a small percentage of the drop.
The other reconciling item that we didn’t actually talk about in the script that contributed to some of that drop because our international numbers were roughly flat was second line extension.
So as you know we sell second line extensions into the base the first one is free the second one we collect $5 a month for -- we have over the last year been cross-selling into the base and obviously once you saturate your existing base that number tends to slow off.
So that was a piece out in GLAs as well.
That pretty much rounds out the reconciliation quarter over quarter.
Let me move to your question about the trial for cannibalization because it’s savvy and an important one.
We did start two test markets and then we actually expanded in the March period into a number of additional test markets to really understand the impact of both branded and unbranded meaning supported with the Vonage brand powered by attribution versus purely launching a startup fresh new BasicTalk brand but no mention of Vonage.
And we did see differences in those marketplace results.
We were hardened to find that in those markets where we did not put the Vonage attribution simply launched as a fresh standalone brand cannibalization was very very small low single digit percentages.
In fact what we saw was the Vonage baseline of sales for premium rate plan remained basically flat and a couple of our test markets actually increased in the presence of the BasicTalk test market.
So we believe that the idea of a pure flanker brand unrelated to Vonage while slightly more expensive to launch because Vonage certainly provides credibility in that regard is our best approach to competing in the ultra-low price segment.
I'd point out that there are a few other major competitors that you're well aware of that compete at that ultralow price point.
And while those folks have not taken a large bite out of our business all they do occasionally churn – you see our churn rates are extremely stable the likes of magicJack and netTalk and some of the other smaller players have been enjoying kind of free feeding at ultralow end and this is an area where we have a superior cost structure.
We have the ability to execute we believe in a better way and there is no reason why we shouldn't be able to compete for that large segment without significant threat to Vonage.
So we will watch it very carefully and it’s something that we do take very seriously and that’s the primary reason why we've launched the BasicTalk brand separately and frankly why we have partnered with Wal-Mart who is going to give us significant merchandising highly visual impact with displays along the launch of the product.
We also expected that presence in Wal-Mart.com and this partnership is one that is exclusive for a period of time and it could be extended depending upon the success of the product over the next several months.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Sherwood from CCP.
Just have a quick question on BasicTalk is there any way you can give us some sort of broad brush metrics on the potential GLAs that could contributed to if it’s successful? As you would well expect we have – we have done that work internally because we got enough test markets and we’ve run three periods most periods with actually very different levels of advertising and different marketing stimuli in multiple markets.
And we benchmarked that against the overall size of core Vonage business.
And while it’s premature for me on a national scale to give you an overall sizing I guess I am dodging the question until we talk again next and see what the national launch really brings us.
We are quite confident that the investment levels we are putting in place we will see material results in the back half of this year.
We think this could be a very significant marketplace and I am just going to leave it at that for now.
I promise to give you an update perhaps when we speak later this quarter.
And then how do you look at this sort of breakeven – I mean is this something where you can take $30 a sub a quarter and put like a 60 70% direct contribution margin on it and sort of look at that relative to the ad spend or how do you look at breakeven here? It’s a great question.
So we look at everything on a customer life – net present value and aside from some of the initial spend which is required to build awareness and initial distribution of traffic the ongoing approach to this based on our test market and having a lot of experience with contracts no contract we understand what the churn rate on this is likely to be.
And we do believe the churn rate to be ultimately be in the low mid 2s we’ve modeled it conservatively and had some up real experience on that at the low price we could find ourselves doing even better than that.
We have taken a conservative view of what that churn number would be in our economics and then we look at how much acquisition costs we have to be able to invest to drive traffic.
And we will invest to drive and take as much incremental revenue as we can up to point we’re getting a net present value which is getting you the shareholder return.
You talked about some of the contribution margin on this business and it’s an important one to point out the pre-marketing operating income contribution margin was extremely high.
We keep a large percentage of that $10 once we get past the initial acquisition period.
So if we grow this business it can be a very nice cash flow contributor.
And we do expect most of it to be incremental.
Keep in mind since we are not paying international termination rates and domestic termination rates are extremely small and have been decreasing over time.
And domestic usage tends to be a little bit lighter than what we see in the international side.
There is an awful lot of margin in this product if we can get the acquisition cost in the right place.
Obviously given that it’s just third of the price it’s probably – at least the third when it stabilizes it’s going to be a third of the whatever the 320 to 350 spending per sub.
I think that you can think about it as south of $200 all-in.
We feel pretty good about the return we get if we can have all-in acquisition cost in that range.
(Operator Instructions) If there are no further questions operator we will conclude the call.
Thanks everyone for joining us today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a good day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Vonage Holdings Corporation Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Just as a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Leslie Arena Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ms.
Arena.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Speaking on our call this morning will be Marc Lefar Chief Executive Officer and Dave Pearson CFO.
Marc will discuss the company’s strategy and progress and Dave will review our financial results.
Slides that accompany Dave’s discussion are available on the IR website.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks we will be happy to take your question.
As referenced on slide two I would like to remind everyone that statements made during this call may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These and all forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations and depend on assumptions that maybe incorrect or imprecise.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
More information about those risks and uncertainties is highlighted on the second page of the slides and contained in our SEC filings.
We caution listeners not to rely unduly on these statements and disclaim any intent or obligation to update them.
During this call we will be referring to non-GAAP measures.
A reconciliation to GAAP is available on the IR website.
And now I will turn the call over to Marc.
Thank you Leslie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining on the call today.
We reported a solid second quarter with positive net line additions and our lowest level of churns in 2010.
Executing on our growth priorities we achieved a number of milestones.
First and perhaps the most significant we successfully launched the BasicTalk flanker nationally in the latter half of May.
Second we made meaningful progress building the foundation for our communication business in Brazil.
Third we grew the number of downloads and active customers on the Vonage mobile app and Vonage Extensions with the help of major feature enhancements in each applications.
And lastly we enhanced our new global digital calling card.
A reflection of our stable core business steadfast focus on cost efficiencies and our planned investments in growth we generated $27 million in EBITDA squarely inline with the guidance we provided last quarter.
This includes the impact to planned investments to build awareness and fund merchandizing for the national launch of BasicTalk.
We also continued to execute on the stock repurchase and bought back 5 million shares in the quarter.
With that as an overview I'll now discuss our results in more detail.
Net line additions in the quarter were positive reversing the recent trend.
This improvement reflects the combination of higher sequential gross line addition due to the late May launch of BasicTalk and a 10 basis point decline in churn sequentially and from the prior year.
These factors resulted in an improvement of 15 000 from the prior quarter as we finished 3 000 positive net lines.
Revenue in the quarter declined by 2% sequentially due to lower Universal Service Fund fees a pass-through with no EBITDA impact and the carry over effect of line losses from prior quarters.
Churn has been an important good new story for us and this quarter was no different as churn declined to 2.4% a result of attractive value proposition and high quality of service.
We've now reported churn of 2.5% or lower for five consecutive quarters concrete evidence of the stability of our customer base.
Although the third quarter typically shows a modest up tick in the non-pay component of churn we expect churn to remain stable in the mid 2% range.
During the quarter we also continued to execute well against our multi-year structural cost savings initiatives.
We reduced customer care cost per line by 17% and cost of telephony services by 8% in the prior year.
This is the fifth consecutive quarter of reduction to customer care cost per line.
This improvement was accomplished while simultaneously improving all major customer care metrics.
First call resolution increased to an all time high of 79.6% average handle time declined by 6% from a year ago and contact rate which measures the average number of times per year a customer contacts us declined by 5%.
We see further opportunities to reduce costs through negotiations with key partners like the long term call termination agreement we recently with Tata and by gaining direct access to telephone numbers and we will continue to our long term efforts to lower customer care cost to improve self-service and by addressing some of the root causes that continue to drive call volume into our care centers.
Simply stated the core business is stable and generates substantial cash enabling us to fund the investments in our growth initiatives while we also return value to shareholders through the buyback.
Let me briefly discuss our progress in each of the areas we are targeting for growth.
Since launching BasicTalk in May we have now deployed in all of Wal-Mart's 3700 stores nationwide and our web sales and service experiences are running smoothly.
Early results are strong and consumer feedback has been very positive with consistent comments about good call quality and ease of set up and use.
Our post launch research involving 2200 BasicTalk subscribers is also enlightening.
Customers cited four principal reasons for purchasing BasicTalk.
One core and home cell coverage; two the added security of always having a phone within reach; three the convenience of having multiple home phone extensions; and four the low price.
Many buyers view BasicTalk as a complement to their cell phone.
Perhaps most encouraging is the fact that 42% of all buyers said they did not have home phone service from another provided at the time they signed up for BasicTalk.
Many chord cutters were simply not satisfied with cell-only service and they're coming back.
The remaining 58% of purchases half of them reported that they left a bundle to buy BasicTalk.
In addition we've been very pleased with the success of our self-service portal.
The number of calls into customer care has been low reinforcing our confidence in the post acquisition profitability of this segment.
As I've discussed previously we are carefully monitoring the risk cannibalization of the Vonage base by BasicTalk and we're pleased that so far customer migrations at the very low end of what we forecast based on our market test.
Although the establishment of a new brand does require upfront marketing investments to build awareness and drive traffic our test markets prove that this is a far better strategic approach than one that would create significant ARPU risk by launching under the Vonage brand.
While it is still early cohort analysis from our test market customers and recent purchases suggest a churn on the BasicTalk customer will be below 2%.
Given the size of the opportunity strong consumer reaction and limited migration we plan to continue to invest and to build the BasicTalk brand and subscriber base.
We expect to spend several million incremental dollars in the third quarter to support this effort.
While the launch related cost contributed to higher subscriber line acquisition cost in the second quarter we expect these costs to decline over time.
We anticipate that BasicTalk will ultimately grow to be a meaningful contributor to gross line additions and revenue.
At the same time our flagship Vonage World product continues to provide strong value to international long distance callers.
Our patented Extension service has successfully extended its value to mobile.
Today 29% of our international calls are made on the mobile phone up from 18% one year ago.
There were some bright spots for the Vonage World business as well as some challenges.
In June we launched a new national advertising campaign Crazy Generous.
The campaign features a new character Vonage's Chief Generosity Officer who is endearing authentic and memorable.
It gives a passion for providing innovative affordable and generous communication options to our customers in an industry with a reputation for doing exactly the opposite.
Consumer reaction especially among international callers have been positive.
Our research has shown significant increases in willingness to consider Vonage for their next home phone service and an overall preference for Vonage among all providers being considered.
While we're encouraged by the initial response to the new campaign we do continue to see persistent decline in the efficiency of television media and direct mail.
We're aggressively testing new media approaches and formats to drive cost effective lead generation.
Retail sales in big box and regional stores were strong posting a 18% increase in gross line additions before accounting for the impact of BasicTalk.
This gain reflects continued strength in our assisted selling program.
As of the end of June we provided assisted sales in 600 stores up from 490 at the end of the first quarter.
This represents the eight consecutive quarter of growth in retail.
In addition the performance of our community sales teams grew by 9% sequentially and continues to be a cost effective channel to reach ethnic segments.
As we look for the remainder of the year in 2014 we expect to reduce our marketing investment in television media and direct mail and increase our use of digital media and search to more effectively target international calling segments.
Let me now discuss our progress building our business in Brazil.
In the past 12 weeks we formally established the joint venture legal entity secured headquarters facility and successfully hired key executives to operate the venture including our Managing Director and heads of technology and operations.
We also received certification of our device from Anatel the Brazilian National Telecommunications Agency and solidified our solutions and operation plans and delivery timelines.
Technical development is currently underway on systems and engineering elements of the business.
Testing of the network components will commence in the third quarter to be followed by testing of the business operations components before year-end.
We expect to complete testing of financial and regulatory elements of platform and final integration by the end of the first quarter of 2014 with a full featured launch to follow shortly thereafter.
Our conviction remains strong that Brazil presents a substantial opportunity for growth due to its large and dynamic market increasing penetration of broadband and relatively high priced service providers.
In addition to Brazil we're in active discussion with other prospective international partners in additional target geographies.
Turning to mobile the recent addition of video to the mobile app and the addition Wi-Fi calling to Vonage Extensions have accelerated both downloads and usage.
The standalone Vonage mobile app now provides one of the most broadly functional over the top app in the market.
And competitive product testing suggests that our quality is unsurpassed.
Customer response to the addition of video has been positive with average daily downloads increasing by 33% since the feature launched.
Video calls on Android and iOS phones are now 25% and 12% wall and net calls respectively.
We continue to see a positive response to our quality improvements and feature additions.
The app is highly rated receiving 4.5 starts in the iTunes app store and 4.2 stars in Google Play.
The number of downloads active users and revenues continues to grow.
Although we're behind our original internal expectations for the standalone mobile app we're encouraged the downloads usage and number of paying customers accelerated during the quarter.
Our product roadmap is robust and we expect that new services that leverage our core platform will further differentiate us and drive growth in the future.
Use of our Extensions mobile service continues to grow rapidly.
Currently 85% of our international callers have an Extension and 76% have used the service in the last 90 days.
Extensions is clearly delivering value to our subscribers and making them stickier contributing to the stability of our international calling base.
Our Vonage Global phone card a digital calling card for mobile phones provides an additional path to penetrate the international calling market.
In the second quarter we improved our service to integrate direct web purchases with Vonage mobile providing a seamless smartphone experienced without the commissions charged by app stores.
This has also allowed us to price more aggressively and to invest in targeted search engine marketing programs to meet the needs of light and medium use international callers who prefer a pay-per-minute pricing.
In the future we plan to expand the global phone card service to include physical cards sold at retail locations.
Finally we continue to make progress towards a commercial launch of our international roaming feature Reach Me Roaming which is scheduled for later this year in the US.
This feature allows users to save on high cost roaming fees when traveling internationally.
Our commitment to protect our valuable intellectual property has intensified in the past year.
This is reflected in the strong progress we've made to grow our pat portfolio.
So far in 2013 we have filed 63 patent applications and have already been granted 9 eclipsing our performance for all of last year.
We now have 27 US patents 52 foreign patents and 284 pending application.
During the second quarter we continue to executive on our balanced approach to capital allocation.
We repurchased 5 million shares for $13 million and remain on track to complete our $100 buyback by the end of 2014.
In addition we just closed on an amendment to our bank facility in the past week.
This gives us even greater flexibility to repurchase stock.
Dave will discuss this in greater detail in a few moments.
In summary this is a solid quarter.
We reduced churn to the lowest level at headquarters increased gross line additions and grew net subscriber lines.
Our customer base is stable and our cost structure continues to improve.
As I've reinforced revenue growth remains our top priority and we're executing upon our plans to grow the top line.
Consistent with our prior guidance we continue to expect positive net line addition for the third quarter.
We expect to invest several million dollars above second quarter levels to continue to grow awareness drive traffic and provide merchandising support on the BasicTalk brand.
Our investment shift from primarily six launch costs which comprise a large portion of second quarter spend to a mix of fixed and variable costs allowing us to ramp on investment up or down depending upon the level of our success.
We will continue to exercise financial discipline and will continue to accelerate or moderate spending based upon our progress.
Consistent with the level of prior quarter commitments we will continue to invest in international expansion and mobile development activities.
With that I'll pass the call to Dave.
Thanks Marc and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to review our financial results and provide you with an update on our outlook.
Beginning on Slide 3 we reported $27 million in adjusted EBITDA down $7 million in the first quarter down $8 million year over year.
The changes are primarily due to our investment in the nationwide launch of BasicTalk.
Cash flow generated from our core business prior to investments on BasicTalk Brazil and mobile remained strong reflecting the stability of our customer base and improvements in our cost structure.
Moving to Slide 4 net income excluding adjustments was $12 million or $0.06 per share down sequentially from $21 million or $0.10 per share and down also from $21 million or $0.09 per share in the year ago quarter.
As with EBITDA these numbers reflect our planned investments in growth priorities.
GAAP net income was $7 million or $0.04 per share down from $13 million or $0.06 per share sequentially.
GAAP net income was up from a loss of $3 million or $0.01 per share in the year ago quarter.
Note that the year ago quarter included one time non-cash adjustment in connection with the abandonment of certain software assets.
Moving to Slide 5 revenue was $205 million down sequentially from $209 million primarily due to the non-operational impact of lower universal service funds for USF fees lower subscriber addition in prior period and retention activities.
These impacts were partially offset by selective pricing actions taken in late 2012.
Revenue declined from $212 million a year ago due to the same factors with USF which is a pass-through contributing $3 million of the decline.
ARPU was $29.06 down from $29.61 sequentially and $29.98 in the prior year quarter primarily due to lower USF and rate plan mix which includes the impact of incremental volume behind the new BasicTalk plan.
Moving to Slide 6 we continue to reduce our cost structure by implementing efficiencies and structural cost improvement in key areas of our business.
In the second quarter were reduced our cost to $54million driven by a lower domestic and international termination costs and interconnect expenses as well as the decline in USF fees.
This is a reduction of $1 million over the prior quarter and nearly $5 million over the prior year.
Importantly the year over year reductions in COTS more than offset the effect of customer plan changes in ARPU resulting in an improvement in direct margins 69% from 68%.
COTS per line was $7.60 reduced from $7.82 sequentially and from $8.23 in the second quarter of last year.
In addition to the cost reductions we have already realized our recent termination agreement with Tata and potential savings from gaining direct access to telephone numbers both provide a meaningful path to reduce our cost structure going forward.
Under the agreement Tata provides international call terminations for portions of our traffic to India Canada and rest of the world.
With access to some of the lowest termination rates available we are well-positioned to continue to provide highly competitive offers to nearly any international calling destination.
And we continue to be encouraged by the FTC recent notice to propose rule making to allow VoIP providers like Vonage to have direct access to their own telephone numbers.
As a reminder in April the FTC granted Vonage approval to conduct numbering trial concurrent with the rule making.
Trial is progressing well.
If the proposed rules are adopted that will facilitate the shift to direct IP to IP inter connection and enable long term structural cost savings in the double digit millions of dollars in the subsequent two to three years.
Moving to Slide 7 selling general and administrative expense $61 million down $2 million sequentially due to the one time benefit from the favorable resolution of an insurance claim as well as from continued reductions in the cost of customer care per line which declined by 17% year over year the lowest level in company history.
SG&amp;A was up $3 million from the year ago quarter due to higher selling expense as we expanded our retail and community sales teams partially offset by lower G&amp;A.
Moving to Slide 8.
Marketing expense was $58 million up from $52 million sequentially and $55 million a year ago reflecting planned investment for the nationwide launch of BasicTalk.
Subscriber line acquisition cost was flat increased to $357 from $349 sequentially and $336 a year ago as a significant course and of the launch cost were fixed in nature and not variable with customer acquisition as Marc mentioned.
Turning to slide 9.
Gross line additions or GLA were 155 000 up from 148 000 sequentially benefiting from a partial quarter of BasicTalk line additions down from 163 000 in the prior year's quarter.
Churn results were strong as we decreased churn to 2.4% from 2.5% sequentially and in the prior year's period.
Higher gross line additions combined with lower sequential churn was open in a gain of 3 000 net line additions in the quarter.
We will now move to a discussion of CapEx cash flow and the balance sheet on Slide 10.
For the quarter CapEx including the acquisition in developmental software assets was $8 million which was primarily for network infrastructure and systems improvements.
This is up from $4 million sequentially and in the year ago quarter.
We are updating our full-year 2013 CapEx guidance to be no greater than $30 million from the prior in the range of $30 million to $35 million due to greater visibility on expenditures for the remainder of the year.
Free cash flow in the second quarter was $11 million increasing from $5 million sequentially reflecting seasonality in working capital to the timing of payment.
Free cash flow was down from $25 million in the year ago quarter due primarily the lower EBITDA and higher CapEx.
Reflecting the strength of our core business cash flow generation cash and cash equivalents as of June 30 were $103 million including $4 million in restricted cash.
We ended the quarter with a strong balance sheet reflected in total leverage to adjusted EBITDA of 0.6 times with net cash of $26 million.
We are executing on our $100 million stock repurchase plan which was authorized in February and replaced our prior $50 million program.
During the second quarter we repurchased a total of 5 million shares for $13 million.
At the end of the second quarter we had repurchase the total of 23 million shares for $58 million since launching our program in August of 2012.
In the past week we obtained an amendment to our credit facility that increases our restricted payments amount from $50 million to $80 million.
This amendment gives the flexibility to buyback up to $80 million stock in any 12 months period for the relevant covenants test as applied to repurchase additional amount as and if allowed within our covenant calculations.
In addition to continuing with our buyback program we will also evaluate additional opportunities for growth organic and inorganic including in mobile international and adjacent markets.
With our strong balance sheet cash flow generation and $75 million revolving credit facility we believe we have sufficient capacity to pursue compelling inorganic growth opportunities where there is strategic fit.
In summary we are well-positioned to execute our balance approach to capital allocation.
We will continue to invest for long-term growth and international expansion and mobile consistent with the level of prior quarter investments and plan to spend an incremental several million dollar above second quarter level to build the basic top brand and customer base.
Thank you for your interest in Vonage.
I will not turn the call back over to Leslie to initiate Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Dave.
Operator please open the line for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
And one moment for our first question.
Our first question will come from the line of Bill Dezellem of Titan Capital.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Thank you.
I would like to start with CapEx.
You mentioned that you were lowering that number simply because you have more clarity.
Is that simply an estimating function that you are talking about having clarity or have you actually changed the some of the planned investment?  That is an estimating function.
We have not changed our investments.
It's up in the second quarter based on the timing of some projects that we have done and you can long planned.
And the $30 million is really about the greater visibility for the remainder of the year we have not.
We have not changed our outlook or the projects that we are pursuing.
Thank you.
And then secondarily you referenced the incremental multimillions of investment for BasicTalk.
Would you quantified at further may be put some number behind it please? Sure.
We talked about several million and I think that is the right way to think about it.
We guided in the last quarter that we would spend $5 million to $7 million on BasicTalk in that quarter and $5 million to $10 million on other growth initiatives.
In total we are spending on mobile and international spending on BasicTalk and the incremental amount on BasicTalk that we referenced would still be in that range if we have those numbers up if we have that prior guidance up in a per quarter basis.
This is Marc.
We are not going to give specific numbers because that is going to vary from week to week based upon the productivity of our channels.
In addition to the heavy advertising to build initial awareness of a new brand which is required and we want to continue to build that awareness and track that weekly.
We will be doing a number of variable based programs like direct mail in high traffic Wal-Mart locations much more digital activity now that we have created some awareness to the brand.
All those things will vary based upon the actual throughput.
So that's about the best we can give to you.
What we shared is previously we do look at these things on what was required to get launch what's the ongoing sustain profitability and what kind of MPV we do need to make this a smart investment over time.
Churn rates are good.
We see virtually zero cannibalization of the Vonage core brand.
That is an extremely important point as folks understand the ARPU story.
We have seen virtually zero cannibalization of the base.
So you think about that as incremental dollars or revenue on the core business an area we really was not competing before at all.
And yet it will have an impact on service ARPU as you blend that into the mix.
When you look at total revenue and say hey guys how come you are not moving that faster that's because of the key motive impact of net line losses which -- it is history it is the fact we do not like it but that is what was there.
And you have the net BasicTalk of that.
And that impact of loosing prior period net lines at the Vonage World case rate that is what is driving your total service revenue numbers.
I will offer to you the notes that we expect the second half of the year total revenues to exceed first half total revenues as we get the benefit of that BasicTalk and then positive net adds in the balance of the period.
Next question operator? Our next question is comes from the line of Doug Lane of Citi Investments.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the question.
My first question is how much of the sequential churn improvement and the increase in gross adds was attributable both to the BasicTalk launch in the quarter and secondly if you can provide us an update on the competitive environment from a pricing perspective for the core home replacement service excluding BasicTalk? Sure I'll take that one.
This is Marc.
So churn improvement would actually cross the board on our core business very little of that was affected by BasicTalk just because the apps with numbers relative to our total customer base was still relatively small.
So even though BasicTalk is lower than the average you're not going to see an averaging in benefit of that for some period of time.
So the 10 basis points was core and reflected improvements in virtually all of our segments both ethnic international callers as well as domestic.
On the second question relative to competitive situation we only seek competitive pressure.
We've seen continued stability in bundles.
We've seen since the beginning of the year and was probably just continuation of the second quarter strong competition both from cable companies as well as the telcos providing large amounts of gift cards but there's not been a significant acceleration in the second quarter from the big telephone cable companies.
We do see sporadic promotions from some of these smaller ethnic targeted international long distance companies pretty tactical respond to those high segment as necessary.
That does have some impact as we protect those customers when they call to suggest that they can get better rates we managed that very proactively in our retention centers.
That does and Dave mentioned have some impacts on ARPU period over period because the value of those customers once acquired the contribution margin is high we want to keep them even if it means re-rating them to lower rate plans as necessary to match what competition is delivering so you see some of that in our service ARPU rate decline as well as USF.
So that's kind of a high level but I'll mention also on the competitive front it does appear that BasicTalk is hurting other lower end competitors.
Well we got a slower start than we would have liked.
We launched advertising in mid to late May and took us longer than we expected actually to get a hold of our merchandising through the Wal-Mart distribution channel so that continues to accelerate for us.
But we saw within two weeks of launch both magicJack take competitive action in terms of a major price rollback and what most folks may not realize is their pricing in Wal-Mart not only rolled back the price but extended the time for which you get service under that $49 up to 12 months from six.
They took a very large price decline to try to protect business so we know we're taking a chunk out of them.
We've also seen some advertising from other low end competitors.
That said we're pleased with our BasicTalk progress and continue to support that brand and we're seeing very positive results from customers that have signed up.
Okay.
Next question operator?  Our next question comes from the line of Matt Sherwood of Cooper Creek Partners.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Congrats on a good quarter on the ad side and the churn side.
Just have a quick question for you.
If add a 157 000-ish adds to the quarter but BasicTalk is really only one month of the quarter does that mean that hey you were like running at 148 000 run rate for the first two months and you're out like a $175 000 of the June month? Was there a material acceleration in ads as the quarter progressed? It's a good question Matt.
We're not going to provide specific numbers in the case of week by week and kind of forecast but your basic thinking that says hey you got a run rate of your core Vonage business that seems pretty stable and you've launched BasicTalk late in the quarter shouldn’t you get benefit from a longer period of time as you move forward the answer is yes of course.
There's clearly a ramp to BasicTalk the last couple of weeks are much stronger than the initial weeks that you're ramping distribution so you definitely see that.
One thing that you should keep in mind however is that prior to the most recent quarter we were running BasicTalk direct marketing programs nationally under the Vonage brand.
So that was in that run rate we ramped that down in the second quarter as a national launch occurred but what we are doing for those who were not in previous calls with us is we were testing this with people who had already quit Vonage for one reason not that we know who they are we remarketed to them on the Vonage BasicTalk service and we also ramped for those people who had incomplete sales people that we had through digital tracking or in down telemarketing who are unable to close the sale on a higher end rate plans in the past.
And we've been doing this as part of our test markets for an extended period of time.
So we do have what I would say is not immaterial compared to the May-June timeframe run rate BasicTalk that was also in that base and funded out of the core budgets.
So I just caution you as you start doing your multiplier effects and trying to forecast GLAs to keep that historical run rate in mind but we do expect there'll be a fourth quarter of GLA BasicTalk in the next quarter we expect it to be larger than was certainly all things in Q2 and we do expect that ad and reaffirm that guidance from last week before the third and fourth quarters.
Right but you're not going to help us with sort of improvements in July or how the quarter progressed? No I'm not.
The competitive environment and distribution certainty along I think has too much variability for me to try to give you a specific numbers other than say the direction is up.
Okay fair enough.
I guess second you usually give your amount of investment spend on the new initiatives plus I guess in this case BasicTalk for the quarter in aggregate I didn't see that in the press release.
That's right.
I think in the first question I referenced the fact that its going to fall within the guidance in the third quarter that we gave for the second quarter.
And the second quarter also fell within that guidance if you think about the two buckets of the 5 to 10 of mobile and international and the 5 to 7 in BasicTalk.
Maybe to add a little more perspective on that I think we talked about $6 million of investments last quarter and that last quarter was lion share related to mobile international.
We did not significantly shift mobile international spending yet some ups and downs and the remainder of that spend which you actually fall through in EBITDA quarter over quarter is the BasicTalk launch.
Fair enough that's helpful.
Okay then I guess number three share repurchase you got a covenant waiver that will allow you to repurchase shares much faster.
Is that an indication that that could be something you're interested in or did you just get it to give you maximum flexibility? This is Marc.
I will take the tail end of that.
It is just responsible management to give us the maximum flexibility.
We saw an opportunity we got a good partners in our bankers and we're able to do this for very very little cost.
We thought it was a good opportunity to give an opportunity to plan for the future and deal with whatever situation might arise.
I mean because if you're about to materially accelerate your ad profile with BasicTalk and then Brazil coming up might be a good time to sort of accelerate the share repurchase plan.
Yeah I think the way we think about it is we certainly have that flexibility I think we already have that flexibility.
Now we don't really have to up to a certain point focus on the covenant as we make decisions and judgments about the buyback.
So it's a very good tool and we expect to continue the program in each quarter adjust the program based on a variety of factors including market conditions.
Okay fair enough.
And then I guess final question on Brazil now that you have a lot of these approvals that you didn't have before is there any update and more clarity on launch timeline? Well I'll repeat what I shared in my opening comments.
We got a quarter by quarter plan that gets us through all of our testing by the late in the first quarter which includes final integration testing.
We'll have a number of key milestones before that that will friendly user testing to make sure that operationally things are working and we expect very late first quarter early second quarter for a full feature complete launch.
Okay.
We'll move to the next question operator? Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Brian Horey of Aurelian Management.
Your line is open please go ahead.
First just wanted to little housekeeping.
You said the lines added from the retail assisted selling were up 18% is that correct? Did I hear that correctly? What I said was retail sales in what would be big box or mass merchants and regional stores were 18% up separate from BasicTalk.
It did not include the impact of BasicTalk.
Okay so 18% of the total adds.
For that channel for retail mass merchants and regional stores yes the physical bricks and mortar retail stores.
Okay got it.
You also gave a set on the community sales.
Can you repeat that as well community sales teams? Yeah the community sales teams grew by 9% sequentially and we continued to increase staffing in those areas so continued to increase productivity and would expect that number to increase as well.
And this reflects a long term over the past really five six quarters shift to move to more variable cost direct selling model particularly into ethnic communities or in stores where we can see ethnic communities and engage them for the value proposition and shift our spending away from what is now a more cluttered and more expensive television media environment.
So we're moving to more targeted vehicles which is digital when you think about buying as well as the ability to actually put people in front of our customers and engage selling there if (inaudible) helps us target those customer base a little bit more cost effectively and it variablizes our costs.
Okay.
And that's the number of teams and not the number of lines added through that channel is that -- just to be clear right? Well I didn't mention the number of teams so let me be clear.
The 9% was actually the gross line additions generated by our community sales teams.
Okay got it.
And then just trying to think about the difference impact on line additions outside of that.
Would you say that the BasicTalk adds were able to offset the impact of the declining efficiency that you referenced in TV and direct mail and kind of the -- some of the more traditional channels that you used for the core offering?  Yeah I will probably rephrase it a little bit in that BasicTalk as a long-term growth drive where we feel a lot of confidence then and this is going to help us to deliver that net ads positive net ads and total top-line revenue growth as a over time that is going to be a major contributor for us.
Relative to the -- digital offset obviously our selling and acquisition cost is up on a per line basis to reflecting what is upfront more than kind of a normal per GLA rate.
We have to invest in advertising reasonably heavily to build awareness and drive traffic into retail stores and online.
So your overall subscriber line acquisition cost was higher which means that by definition it is not completely offsetting but it also suggest to you that that number over time will come down significantly.
The reason why it is so high was because of the upfront investment on BasicTalk.
Right.
I understand that.
I was just trying to get out the number of lines added as opposed to the cost whether the volume of ads from BasicTalk was enough to offset the weakness in the core product through the traditional marketing needs?  Yeah.
So I think it is way to think about it is there is little bit of softness.
And obviously with the increase in total net line ads I think by the definition BasicTalk offset any weakness that we saw in Vonage World during the quarter.
Okay.
Fair enough.
I am sorry.
Can you go back through the stats on the mobile you said average downloads I think we up 33% on a daily basis I guess versus last quarter is that the right comparison?  It is versus the time -- it versus only launch the video service so we looked at kind of the average number downloads for the two months prior to the launch of video and then we looked at the subsequent three months post launch and that overall downloads increased by a third post versus pre.
Okay great.
And then you gave some stat about usage of the iOS in the Android app I think with the video can you just reiterate that as well? Well we are seeing that of all our on net calls and on net calls obviously are those where both that parties have the software.
Our products differentiated from a lot of other companies but we allow you to make calls to anybody and we bill this calls obviously through our prepaid plan for international long distance.
But if you are on net meaning both people have the software we are much like some of the other smaller companies that have on net free.
Video only works if both people have the software.
And for those on net customers our video calling rate has been 25% of all calls on net on Android or video calls.
So one out of four calls during the period has been a video call on Android and the level for iOS is about half of that.
I attribute that two things one is face time so iOS does have functionally iOS-to-iOS.
As well as I think the user experience generally speaking for Android tends to deal with better for all over the top operators; they give a little more flexibility for developers than does iOS.
Our next question operator? Thank you.
(Operator instructions) Our next question comes from a line of David Cannon from Aegis Capital.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Getting back to the rule out of BasicTalk through Wal-Mart can you tell me when you were fully operational in all 3700 stores?  I would say it is difficult because we don't have instantaneous audit.
We do have merchandizing firm that are actually in stores so did a count each week.
I would say that we were fully operational across all stores in early June.
Okay.
And then I know somebody attempted to ask this question but I was still ambiguous of the answer.
Of the $6.50 million of incremental marketing spend how much of that went towards BasicTalk versus international versus mobile if you can give me a breakdown? All of the incremental went to BasicTalk and then some.
Okay.
So I mean this is my concern or question what is the payback on that? If you are investing $6 million what is your internal expense expectation in terms of subscriber additions and how long will it take you to recover that investment? Have you guys through kind of what is your internal model on that?  We have.
I'm going to get into details on specific GLA numbers based upon modeling; I will give you some of the component parts on target goal that make it a good investment.
We build our -- a big piece of this also relates to customer life.
We had expectations internally that customer life would be in the mid 2% range.
We are seeing early indication because it is going to be well below 2% which extends customer life on churn.
In addition ARPU we obviously have that is very easy to calculate.
And we then look at what are the other cost components internally we are very comfortable with our assumptions on customer service cost all of our online sales and service is meeting our internal expectations from our core model.
When we think about that we look to get a net present value on these customers -- if we look to get the kind of net present value on these customers that we consider be reasonable return and reasonable discount rate it allows us a long-term slack where once we get out of the initial startup phase to be somewhere around the $200 range.
We shared that previously and as churn declines you might get some additional flexibility but that's what the sales and marketing teams are focused on.
You are not going to see that in the first 20 weeks of any major new brand launch and as we look at our long-term three to seven year kind of program of BasicTalk in a GLA that we expect to get as the percentage of our total that $6 million will have no problem being paid out.
Okay operator -- do you have one more question Dave? Yes regarding mobile to me it seems like mobile is a more exciting opportunity.
You reference here international roaming product.
When do you anticipate marketing that full throttle? We expect to expand our roaming product into the U.S.
marketplace before year end.
We have not given specific timetable.
We are completing our testing on multiple networks and I do not want to try to predict something that I do not have enough visibility for to give you a specific month and I would not do it for competitive reasons anyway.
Okay.
And then somebody asked about the Philippines can you give me I guess of your partner Globe what is the status of that and if there is any impact or contribution? So our relationship with Globe continues.
We have got solid and stable gross line additions from Globe.
We market it a lot less in the second quarter against Globe than we had in the prior periods.
We saw concerns from our partner about some heavy users so we restructured our rate plan from unlimited plan to a high number of minutes capped plan and have just started marketing again at the levels that we are doing in Q4 of last year.
So our subscriber line acquisition cost on Globe customers has been below $300 so we think that that is a very good investment but we did stand down and redeploy some of those dollars during the last quarter.
Okay.
Next question operator? Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Routh with National Alliance.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Rob are you with us? Please check with your phone it is on mute.
Sorry about that.
And thanks for taking my question.
Just two quick ones.
First I was wondering if you could remind us are you still subject to (inaudible) limitations as it relates to potential stock buybacks going forward now that you are making money and free cash flow and things are doing well? And second if you could remind us about your NOL situation a while back because these change in reverse order to NOLs you can't reverse all of them.
Why don't you give us as sense as to when you could possibly be a cash tax payer and if then how much in NOLs do you still have and potentially could be reversed in the future as the outlook continues to look very bring for the company? Rob you broke up a little bit while you were talking so we're going to try to make sure we got those captured.
I'll turn it to Dave and he may incorporate one of his guys who's here with us Jerry who is our controller and could perhaps provide some additional specificity on those two points.
So I think the first one is related to 382 buyback limitations? Yes sir.
And we're subject to that.
We still have a $740 million.
It continues to be valuable.
We released a portion of that based on visibility on being the fact that we would have been a cash tax payer or going into that scenario.
We do not anticipate paying cash taxes anytime in the foreseeable future based on what we released but also what's in unreleased as part of that $740 million NOL.
Great.
And do you think I know its obviously (inaudible) to say but is there a chance that you will be able to release the remaining portion of that $740 million if things continue to progress as they have? At some point but that's a calculation we'll make in the future.
It's not something that feels near term.
Okay operator if there are no additional questions that will conclude the call.
Thank you for joining us today.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Have a great rest of the day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Vonage Holdings Corporation third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Just as a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Leslie Arena Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ms.
Arena.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Speaking on our call this morning will be Marc Lefar Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Pearson CFO.
Marc will discuss the company's strategy and progress and Dave will review our financial results.
Slides that accompany Dave's discussion are available on the IR website.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks we will be happy to take your question.
As referenced on Slide 2 I would like to remind everyone that statements made during this call may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These and all forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations and depend on assumptions that maybe incorrect or imprecise.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
More information about those risks and uncertainties is highlighted on the second page of the slide and contained in our SEC filings.
We caution listeners not to rely unduly on these statements and disclaim any intent or obligation to update them.
During this call we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to GAAP is available on the IR website.
And now I will turn the call over to Marc.
Thank you Leslie and good morning everyone.
Today we reported a solid third quarter.
Gross line additions of $175 000 were up 12% sequentially and up 2% versus the prior year.
This was our best quarter of GLAs since the first quarter of 2011 as we benefited from a stable volume of international callers and a first full quarter of national BasicTalk sales.
As expected churn increased modestly to 2.6% due to targeted price increases executed during the quarter and the early life churn associated with higher levels of new gross line additions.
Low seasonal churn during the second quarter also affected the sequential comparison.
Total net lines grew by 11 000 a sequential increase of 8 000 the highest level of net additions since the first quarter of 2008.
Revenue of $204 million was roughly flat sequentially and down 1.7% versus prior year due to prior period line losses in our premium domestic customer base a modest ARPU compression.
BasicTalk sales and targeted pricing actions help to offset these factors.
Adjusted EBITDA of $23 million was down sequentially from $27 million primarily due to the full quarter impact of national launch investments in support of BasicTalk.
This investment will begin to ramp down towards the end of the year as we move to more normalized levels of acquisition cost.
Our steadfast focus on improving efficiency have led to further cost reductions in customer care and telephony services which are down 14% and 4% respectively compared to the prior year.
We will continue to emphasize structural cost reductions in our 2014 plans to help offset the cost of investments in growth and domestic pricing pressure.
Free cash flow was $20 million $9 million higher sequentially due to positive changes in working capital and lower capital expenditures.
We are now at the halfway point of the three year plan that I first outlined at a major investor conference in early 2012 in which I elaborated on during our annual earnings call a month later.
At that time I described the strategic operational and financial transformation that we just completed.
That phase of our plan which took roughly three years resulted in a swing of nearly $200 million in EBITDA and dramatic reductions in line losses and churn.
Our performance allowed us to restructure our balance sheet lowering interest rates from a high of 20% to less than 4% saving over $40 million in annual interest expense.
Even after the closing of the recently announced acquisition of Vocalocity our net debt will be 65% lower than at the end of 2009.
In addition we've executed on our early 2012 promise to take a balanced approach to capital management.
In August 2012 we initiated our first $50 million stock repurchase program which we subsequently replaced with $100 million plan.
Through the end of the third quarter of this year we've repurchased 28 million shares for $72 million.
It was also during these early 2012 discussions I outlined a high level strategy for growth with the goal of driving substantial new revenue streams to be realized as we enter 2015.
We discussed three strategic areas of emphasis: one core growth in the U.S.
and Canada; two mobility services both as a standalone service and as a compliment to all of our offers globally; and three international expansion.
As we approach the halfway point of our three-year plan let me touch on each of these strategic areas of emphasis and share our progress towards Vonage's reemergence as a premier provider of cloud-based communication services.
In our first strategic area of emphasis the U.S.
and Canada core business we established three objectives.
The first of these was to continue to penetrate underserved ethnic segments with aggressive international calling plans building up on our early success with Vonage World.
Since that time we've established a 36% share of the Asian-Indian segment in U.S.
grown our Hispanic international calling customer base to nearly 200 000 households built an annualize revenue stream of over $10 million amongst Filipino's and a 45% of all of our customers making international calls.
While we have grown share in the Indian calling segment our results in other segments have not progressed as quickly as we'd expected.
During the third quarter gross line additions from premium plans were roughly flat sequentially as gains in the Indian segment were offset by lower ads in Hispanic and other segments.
In the fourth quarter we've implemented several initiatives to grow faster including new advertising enhanced distribution and limited time local events and promotions that pay sales agents in high-traffic temporary locations.
We continue to make progress growing our retail and alternative sales channels.
Our assisted selling initiative in which we placed Vonage representatives in retail locations to engage directly with customers continues to perform well.
In the third quarter we increased the number of stores with assisted selling from 550 to 700 and saw an increase in gross line additions from this channel.
Sales from our community teams also performed well and we're up over 9% from the prior quarter.
The Chief Generosity Officer Advertising Campaign has been working to drive increased awareness and perceptions of credibility and trustworthiness in both the ILD and domestic calling segments.
While we are pleased with the early creative results we are testing ways to get similar effectiveness from television at lower cost.
Our yield on television media simply isn't where it needs to be.
In addition we are focused on improving the efficiency of our digital advertising.
We have tested a broad array of tactics and are now focusing our efforts on consolidating our digital retargeting efforts building on successful and prospecting tactics and optimizing our display activities.
In the fourth quarter we are continuing to expand our distribution and assisted sales and community sales teams.
Overall we expect absolute marketing spend on our core business to decline in the fourth quarter as we adjust our channel mix and improve our efficiency.
Our marketing investment television and direct mail will decline while we increase our use of digital media and search.
The second objective for our U.S.
and Canada core business was to meet the needs of light used domestic home phone users with an aggressively priced service without cannibalizing the Vonage brand.
After significant research in market testing and discussion with prospective partners we launched the new flanker brand BasicTalk nationally in mid-May results have been strong.
BasicTalk is available in all of Wal-Mart's 3 700 stores nationwide and online through walmart.com and basictalk.com.
While the results are still early customer satisfaction is high and the churn rates appear to be comfortable to the average of the Vonage customer base in the mid-twos.
This is encouraging for our non-contract service.
Importantly we have seen very little cannibalization in the Vonage customer base.
Now six months into the market we've established BasicTalk as a high-quality trustworthy brand.
Brand awareness is low relative to Vonage but it is growing rapidly.
We will continue to invest in BasicTalk during the fourth quarter.
The spending levels will be below those of the third quarter as SLACs decline on a path towards long-term target levels below 200 hours.
We tested a range of marketing tactics during the third quarter and are scaling the most successful.
Aided by new advertising that focuses on the key brand attributes of believability and trustworthiness along with an expected strong holiday season in retail.
We expect BasicTalk to be a meaningful contributor to gross line additions in the fourth quarter.
The third objective outlined in early 2012 for our U.S.
and Canada core business which is to evaluate alternatives to enter the small and medium business market.
We considered a range of market entry strategies over the past year and announced our agreement to acquire Vocalocity last month.
The Vocalocity acquisition which is set to close in the next couple of weeks provides us with an immediate and significant presence in the high growth SMB hosted VoIP market.
For those of you who weren't on our announcement call last month Vocalocity is an industry-leading SaaS provider of cloud-based communications to small and medium businesses.
For the first half of 2013 the company grew revenues to $28 million a 39% over the same period last year.
The rate of growth is more than double that of Eight by Eight and comparable to that of RingCentral.
Vocalocity also added nearly 500 more net new customers than Eight by Eight during the first six months of the year.
Over the same period revenue per customer per month was $229 an 8% increase over the prior year and more than 5x that of RingCentral.
The total small and medium business markets for voice service in North America is $15 billion and 32 million lines.
Vocalocity has focused on companies with 20 or fewer employees which represents more than 60% of the total market or roughly $9.5 billion in revenue.
The opportunity for continued rapid growth in this segment is substantial given that 85% of SMBs still purchase voice servers from traditional carriers at rates that are frequently 40% to 50% higher than those of Vocalocity.
Vocalocity and Vonage use similar SIP-based VoIP technology presenting well-defined opportunities from meaningful synergies.
An example is in the cost of telephony services where Vonage has domestic termination rates are one-third of Vocalocity's.
The use of technology to service customers is another area where we expect to realized meaningful efficiencies.
This acquisition also provides us with a unique opportunity to leverage our investment in the brand over the last decade to accelerate Vocalocity's growth.
Vonage brand awareness among SMBs is nearly 80% while aided awareness of Eight by Eight and RingCentral is less than 10% In addition since any consumer and SMB acquisition channels are similar we anticipate that we will be able to reapply best practices and realize benefits of scale in our sales and marketing overtime.
We planned to transition of Vocalocity brand to Vonage business solutions in the coming months.
Vocalocity also supports our strategy to expand internationally by enabling us to deliver services to SoHo and SMB markets abroad.
We also expect that the investments Vonage has been making to build our mobile capability can be leveraged into the SMB market.
We were acquiring Vocalocity at a compelling transaction price relative to other leading hosted VoIP providers.
We are purchasing Vocalocity at 2.4 times for last six months annualized revenue.
This compares very favorably to Eight by Eight and RingCentral which traded approximately 6.8 and 8.4 times revenue on the same basis respectively.
Vocalocity will operate as a line of business within Vonage and will be laid by its experience CEO Wain Kellum and many of the members of its existing leadership team.
Wain and his team will oversee Vonage business solutions encompassing everything Vocalocity is doing today as well as the current business customers of Vonage.
To be responsible for all of our future expansion plans in SMB including evaluation of small office home office customers or SoHo and largely untapped market opportunity that lies between the current Vonage business and Vocalocity's core SMB customer.
Our teams are hard at work preparing for the launch of the combined company.
We planned to deliver tangible benefits to customers prospects and partners immediately.
We look forward to updating you on the progress of those launch initiatives on our fourth quarter earnings call.
There is much works to do and our teams are excited and invigorated by the prospects ahead of us.
The second area of strategic emphasis has been mobile services.
Since the launch of our patented extension feature in August of 2011 and our Vonage mobile app in February 2012 mobile use has grown rapidly among our customers now representing 31% of all Vonage international calls in the third quarter.
Extensions our mobile product for home phones subscribers has become a key feature for our customers.
With nearly 800 000 customers having registered in extension representing over 80% of our international callers and more than 40% of extensions calls are been made over Wi-Fi hinting at an even larger opportunity for traditional mobile displacement.
A growing number of customers are purchasing second line extensions priced at $499 creating further stickiness and enhancing revenue.
In the last 30 days alone over 60% of all extensions owners were active generating 12 million calls and a 136 million minutes of use clearly demonstrating the convenience and utility of the feature.
That's an annual rate of over 1.6 billion international minutes we've come along way.
Since launch in February of 2012 Vonage mobile app downloads have continued to grow as our features and quality have become more robust.
Downloads accelerated in the third quarter as a result of our April introduction of video calling.
In the quarter nearly 20% of our app calls on Vonage mobile were video calls.
And the app continued to receive high ratings maintaining a 4.5 plus rating on iTunes and a 4.2 plus in Google Play.
Over the next few weeks we will add to the compelling future set when we introduced the truly unique version of video voice mail.
Vonage mobile will be the first over the top app to enable users to leave a video message instead of an audio VoIP voice mail on the fly when a traditional voice call has gone unanswered.
Nobody else does this.
The number of people leaving and listening to voice messages has declined dramatically over the past few years.
Leaving a video message instead of a traditional voice mail allows users to breakthrough the voice mail in difference and experience important moments together even if they can't speak at that moment.
Video voice mail gives users a reason to look forward to voice mail.
On the heels of video voice mail we will launch our patented international roaming feature ReachMe Roaming.
Allows users to save an high cost of roaming fees when traveling internationally while still receiving inbound calls on there primary phone number even if the caller is not using our app.
Mobile is also integral part of our growth strategies for small and medium business as well as international expansion.
We planned to leverage our existing platform and development expertise.
Looking into 2014 you would expect to see breakthrough services that create true alternatives to traditional wireless carriers for a certain segments.
These offers will make use of second numbers and alternate identities on traditional mobile phones as well as the enablement of other cloud based connected devices such as Pads and iPods.
A new world of MVNO is truly emerging.
The third area of strategic emphasis has been expansion internationally.
Our first international partnership was signed with Globe Telecom in May of 2012.
This partnership enabled Vonage to provide Filipinos with cost effective international calls at a fraction of the rate they were accustom to paying.
That business is now in excess of $10 million on annualized revenues and growing.
Our second international expansion initiative the launch of communication services in Brazil through a joint venture with Datora was signed in February of this year and we're making good progress.
The company has completed network testing finalized plans to host to billing platform and as continue to build-out in experienced local management team with the recent hiring of a Chief Market Officer.
The company is on track for customer and production testing later in the fourth quarter and phased market entry targeted for early in the second quarter of 2014.
We remain excited about the Brazil market and the substantial growth opportunity it presents.
In addition to Brazil we are actually pursuing other international opportunities including partnerships in India and Mexico and are systematically analyzing additional opportunities.
At the same time that we are developing innovative products features and technology especially in the areas of mobile and call quality.
We're successfully executing on our strategy to protect our valuable intellectual property.
Thus far in 2013 we have filed our 80 U.S.
patented applications compared to 59 applications filed in 2012.
And we've been granted 12 patents surprising the seven granted in all of 2012.
We now have 30 issued U.S.
patents and more than 200 pending U.S.
patented applications.
In summary we're now at the halfway point of the three year growth plan that I outlined in early 2012.
We've successfully pivoted from a strategic operational and financial transformation which resulted in a swing of nearly $200 million in EBITDA dramatic reductions in line losses and churned restructuring our balance sheet and the implementation of our stock repurchase program to the execution of our strategies for growth.
Now 18 months into our growth plan we see that the core business remain stable.
BasicTalk is enabling us to successfully attack the lower end domestic market and we're making continued progress in international expansion and mobile.
With the acquisition of Vocalocity we have all the right pieces in place.
As we build our detailed 2014 plans we will be taking a dynamic approach to resource allocation and investment focusing greatest energy and those initiatives that are generating the greatest risk adjusted return.
Thank you for joining us today.
And now let me hand the call over to Dave to review the details of our financials.
Thanks Marc and good morning everyone.
I am pleased to review our financial results and provide you with an update on our outlook.
Beginning on Slide 3 adjusted EBITDA was $23 million down from $27 million sequentially reflecting our planned investments to build BasicTalk brand awareness.
It's also reflects lower ARPU which I will discuss in a moment and $1 million lower net settlements to the company in the period as we have benefited from the substantial one-time insurance settlement in the second quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA was down from $34 million in the year ago quarter consistent with our previously discussed plans to increase investments in strategic priorities.
I'd like to highlight two new financial disclosures for this quarter as we discuss EBITDA the first relating to the acquisition of Vocalocity.
In the third quarter we incurred one-time cost of $680 000 associated with the Vocalocity acquisition mostly relating to professional fees.
These costs are included in SG&amp;A but have been excluded from the calculation of adjusted EBITDA in order to maintain period-to-period comparability.
We anticipated additional transaction related costs in the fourth quarter related to the closing of this acquisition.
The second disclosure relates to our joint venture in Brazil in which Vonage has a controlling interest and therefore reports on a consolidated basis.
Beginning in the third quarter we're reporting on our income statement and add-back of net loss attributable to non-controlling interest reflecting the interest in this venture owned by our JV partner.
For the third quarter this item was $222 000.
For the same comparability reasons this item is also excluded from adjusted EBITDA.
Looking to Slide 4.
GAAP net income was $4 million or $0.02 per share down from $7 million or $0.04 per share sequentially.
GAAP net income was down from $13 million or $0.06 per share in the year ago quarter.
Net income excluding adjustments with $9 million or $0.04 per share down sequentially from $12 million and $0.06 per share and down also from $21 million or $0.09 per share in the year ago quarter.
As with EBITDA the reduction in net income reflects our planned investments and growth priorities.
Moving to Slide 5.
Revenue was $204 million down $1 million sequentially primarily driven by the decline in our number of domestic callers on premium plans partially offset by growth in customers on BasicTalk and lower price retention plans.
Revenue decline from $208 million the year ago due to prior period line losses in the same plan effects.
ARPU was $28.87 down from $29.06 sequentially and $29.31 in the prior year quarter primarily due to the addition of customers of lower priced rate plans including the impact of incremental volume from BasicTalk.
Moving to Slide 6 we continue to execute on our structural cost reduction programs and further reduce cost of telephony services or COTS and customer care cost per line.
We reduced COTS to $53 million from $55 million a year ago primarily due to lower domestic termination and interconnection cost which declined by 16% and 39% respectively.
COTS declined from $54 million sequentially.
Continued reductions in this key line item have more than offset the effect of customer plan changes on ARPU resulting in stable direct margin sequentially and an increase in direct margins to 69% compared to 68% in the prior year.
Cost per line was $7.48 down from $7.60 sequentially from $7.80 in the third quarter of last year.
I'd like to take a moment to provide an update on our numbering rights trial.
In April the FCC proposed changing its rules to allow VoIP providers to directly access telephone numbers.
They granted us authority to do a trial for about 225 000 telephone numbers.
In June the FCC approved our plan for the trial.
The purpose of the trial is to demonstrate the absence of technical issues with VoIP providers having direct access to telephone numbers including issues regarding call routing local number portability and intercarrier compensation.
After the internal testing phases of the trial we have started to serve customers with directly-held numbers at the beginning of October in two markets and have now transitioned all of our customers in these markets to Vonage numbers.
Trial which runs through December is running smoothly with no significant technical issues thus far in these markets.
If the FCC adopts the proposed rules and allow VoIP providers like Vonage to have direct access to their own telephone numbers it will facilitate the shift to direct IP-to-IP interconnection and enable potential long-term structural cost savings for us in the double-digit millions of dollars over the subsequent two to three years.
Moving to Slide 7.
Selling general and administrative expense for the third quarter was $65 million.
This is up $4 million form the second quarter where we recorded the $2 million insurance claim reimbursement I referred to earlier.
Incremental $2 million increase in SG&amp;A over the prior quarter was primarily due to expansion the number of stores in which we provide assisted selling and Vocalocity acquisition expenses offset in part by $1 million insurance reimbursement associated with Hurricane Sandy.
SG&amp;A increased $5 million over the prior year also due to the same assisted sales expansion.
This year-over-year increase was partially offset by a 14% decline in customer care cost per line reflecting continued service quality improvements operating efficiencies and improvements in average handle time.
Average handle time declined 7% from a year ago to 677 seconds.
The first call resolution improved 1.7 percentage points from a year ago to 80.3%.
Moving to Slide 8.
Marketing expense was $59 million up from $58 million sequentially and $51 million a year ago reflecting planned investments and growth priorities including BasicTalk.
Subscriber line acquisition cost was flat decreased to $339 from $375 sequentially as we began to realize efficiencies in BasicTalk acquisition cost.
SLAC increased from $299 a year ago partially due to our launch investment in BasicTalk.
We expect to continue to reduce BasicTalk SLAC over time as we progress from the early product launch phase to steady state efficiency levels as Marc referenced.
Turing to Slide 9.
Gross line additions or GLAs were 175 000 up from 155 000 sequentially reflecting a full quarter of BasicTalk line additions and up from 172 000 in the prior year's quarter.
Customer churn was 2.6% up from 2.4% sequentially primarily due to three factors; the implementation of targeted pricing actions; early-life churn associated with higher GLAs; and seasonally higher non-pay churn.
Churn was up from 2.5% in the year ago quarter.
Higher gross line additions more than offset the uptick in churn resulting in 11 000 net line additions in the quarter and our second consecutive quarter of growth in net lines.
I'll now move to a discussion of CapEx cash flow and the balance sheet on Slide 10.
For the quarter CapEx including the acquisition in developmental software assets was $4 million primarily for network infrastructure and systems improvements.
This is down from $8 million sequentially and up from $1 million in the year ago quarter.
Sequential decline is due to several larger projects having been completed in the second quarter.
Free cash flow was $20 million up from $11 million sequentially due in part to positive changes in working capital from the timing of payments in the lower capital expenditures and up from $17 million in year ago quarter primarily due to changes in working capital.
Reflecting the strength of our core business cash flow generation cash and cash equivalents as of September 30 were $104 million including $4 million in restricted cash.
We ended the quarter with strong balance sheet reflected in total leverage to adjusted EBITDA of 0.6x and with net cash of $34 million.
We continued our balanced approach to capital allocation repurchasing 5 million shares for $15 million during the quarter.
This is up from $13 million in the prior quarter.
At the end of the third quarter we have repurchased 39 million of our current $100 million authorization.
Since beginning our buyback in August 2012 we have repurchased 28 million shares for $72 million.
We will continue to execute against our $100 million buyback authorization which funds through the end of 2014.
In October we announced our agreement to acquire Vocalocity for an $130 million.
Under the terms of the agreement Vocalocity shareholders will $105 million in cash and $25 million in Vonage common stock.
Stock component of the transaction and consideration equates to approximately 8 million shares or 3.5% of fully diluted Vonage shares.
We are financing a cash portion of the transaction the $30 million of cash from the balance sheet and $75 million from our low cost revolving credit facility.
Post-close we will have $74 million of cash including $4 restricted gross leverage of 1.2x and net leverage of 0.6x EBITDA using September's financial data.
After the close of the Vocalocity acquisition which we expect in mid-November we will report consolidated financial results for the two company's combined as of the date of the acquisition.
As a result early report fourth quarter results they will include only a partial quarter of Vocalocity's operations and reflect impacts from GAAP purchase accounting rule.
These impacts include additional amortization for intangible assets integration expenses and the one-time exclusion of a portion of Vocalocity's deferred revenue.
This latter point will result in a one-time reduction to Vocalocity's reported revenue and cash flow in the fourth quarter under Vonage's ownership and cause Vocalocity's EBITDA contribution to be negative.
I'll now discuss the outlook for the quarter.
For the fourth quarter excluding Vocalocity we expect revenue and churn to be stable and adjusted EBITDA to be modestly higher compared to the third quarter.
We also expect to report positive net lines for the quarter.
As we stated at the end of the second quarter we expect CapEx to come in below our original guidance of $30 million for 2013.
Net working capital is expected to be positive in the fourth quarter leading to sequentially higher free cash flow again excluding the effects of Vocalocity.
As in prior years we will provide our outlook for 2014 when we report fourth quarter results in February.
As we have discussed previously profitable long-term revenue growth remains our top priority and we believe we have the right assets and team to execute our strategy.
We will continue to monitor performance of our growth portfolio and direct investment dollars to the most compelling initiatives.
Thank you for your continued support at Vonage.
I will now turn the call back over to Leslie to initiate the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Dave.
Operator please open the line for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Greg Burns from Sidoti &amp; Company.
Just a couple of questions around BasicTalk.
Could you kind of talk to the linearity that you saw in terms of subscriber growth throughout the quarter? And then also if you've seen any competitive response since you brought that service to market? So as you know we actually launched BasicTalk in a direct mail format to those customers that had left Vonage historically or folks who have broken out of the purchase process as part of our trial markets going back as much as a year.
We launched nationally with advertising and distribution in mid-May of this past year.
We have seen continuing growth quarter-over-quarter as you'd expect and it's accelerated week-over-week.
In the most recent weeks we've seen that flattened a bit as we've got full distribution through Wal-Mart and/or through the initial phase of heavy merchandizing.
We do expect some additional merchandizing behind BasicTalk and Wal-Mart coming into the holidays and the holidays for our retail stores we expect to get some uplift.
In addition we have been testing a number of other vehicles to optimize BasicTalk sales that includes a number of different ways to get into direct households from [ph] FSIs as well as other formations.
Some of those tests that worked quite well for us.
We're in the process of aggressively expanding those nationally in the fourth quarter.
So we're bullish on the long-term prospects for BasicTalk.
And as you might expect one of the key drivers on this business is to evaluate what the right distribution mix is and Wal-Mart has been a great partner for us.
We are also looking at how we might expand distribution and improve our self-service capabilities online.
So as we look through 2014 we feel very good about the overall contribution of BasicTalk and the efficiency of the BasicTalk business.
Keep in mind we only have aided awareness in the mid-20s of percentages compared to awareness of Vonage in the 80s.
We still believe that launching it as a separate brand was critical to avoid cannibalization and that has been the case.
We've not seen that.
So we're effectively competing at the low end.
We did see initially some competitive response for magicJack and other players at the low end who changed and rollback some pricing on devices.
But we feel like that is largely stabilized at this point in time we haven't seen additional aggressive activity.
So we feel like we're progressing well in the current pricing environment.
And then in terms of mobile can you speak to the adoption rates? Are they still kind of below what you have been looking for? And what you need to do to kind of get that viral adoption of the platform? It's a good question.
Relative to the overall expectations we first launched for the free mobile clients our downloads are less than we would have expected.
We are still in the mid-to-high-single digit millions of downloads.
We are seeing solid international usage on those downloads but obviously scale matters.
So we would have like to seen larger numbers at this point in time.
Now keep in mind mobile lens through which we look at all of our initiatives the Vonage mobile extensions product has been ragingly successful and a lot of people have actually shifted their usage from their homes and business phones on to the mobile platform.
When we think about our allocations of revenues to mobile we don't allocate the number of minutes being used on those services.
And we are getting incremental revenue on second line extensions that are being sold into the base.
As we look at churn levels on customers that are using extensions we see that to be quite a bit lower and it's also allowed us to take targeted price increases with very modest impacts on churns.
So while mobile's investment spends probably a little bit more transparent some of the benefits hit our business in many different areas.
It's also a core element to our expansion internationally.
And we think it will be leverageable in the SMB market with Vocalocity.
We've got some plans for mobile client enhancement for Vocalocity shortly after our day one launch.
So I guess in short relative to the original ongoing assumption we would have liked to seeing larger viral spread to the point of what will it take to do more.
I think it comes to the point of being first and differentiating on a meaningful consumer attribute.
We think that the world is quickly moving to some mobile carrier displacement it goes beyond SMS.
It goes to this notion of a Wi-Fi or Wi-Phone based service with a wide area network as a compliment for certain sub-segments.
We think about it as a software virtual network operator a form of an MBNL if you will.
And we think that for anything from university students to first phones for youth and integrating this with iPads and any other kind of existing device an iPod or dead phone that exists and integrating the home service to business service with any number of broadband connected devices is where the market is going and we've got some exciting things for 2014 in that area.
I think that combined with some of the features I mentioned during my comments has the potential to get a significant stimulation.
I understand having the features saying the lot the roadmap you have they are seemingly pretty exciting stuff on the horizon to be rolled out but if no one knows about it it doesn't do much good.
So if you feel like you need to increase marketing around the mobile platform in the future or is it just not the developmental stage yet where it justifies that incremental investment? As you look at those folks who have gotten viral scale much of it is referral based.
We very much believe in -- can we take a look at the folks who are driving the largest level of downloads and subscription.
Many of them are still unprofitable underwater.
We're not in the business to drive something it's going to be patently unprofitable.
We expect that our investment and we've done this thinking about the whole lens is our mobile teams and the development expense we spend must drive benefit for our core businesses our international business and have a revenue option even in the free downloadable marketplace.
So we look at this potentially a little bit differently then some of the venture-funded businesses that we believe are largely trying to build the community regardless if with there profit outlook is and try to get acquired for that network effect.
We're in the business of really building functionality that people will use that has an opportunity to drive revenues going forward.
As we see that revenue opportunity we will invest behind it but my personal believe and I know that of our marketing and mobile teams is that the client itself needs to very much be the sales force.
So as you build unique functionality and as you improve and we do have opportunities for improvement the referral nature and the ability to recommended and invite friends and the social aspects of the client itself that's was required in order to really drive rapid spread and downloaded the application.
So we are working that as well.
Just lastly I saw Straight Path file a lawsuit.
Is there any color or commentary you could give us around that? So what I'll tell you is we have not actually seen the actual complaint that Straight Path has filed.
We are aware of Straight Path.
We know the suits that they have filed against some other companies that are in the VoIP space.
Straight Path is what is called a non-practicing entity often called the troll.
We have had this is kind of a routine portion of our business and we have successfully fought many of these kinds of suits over the last several years.
As soon as we get more information about the specifics of the infringement complaint then we can comment more specifically.
But we successfully defended ourselves against many of these and we're going to vigorously defend ourselves in this case.
We also have a host of patterns of our own that will need to be evaluated in terms of their utility as well.
Unfortunately lawsuits like this from non-practicing entities have become pretty common place which is why they are so much focus on patent reform in Washington.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rollins from Citi Investment Research.
Just a clarification and then a broader question.
On the clarification Marc I think you were describing earlier the idea of getting the lack down for the BasicTalk to below $200 if I heard you right.
Does that include subsidy on the device or is that a separate number that you have to add to that? We think about that in total acquisition cost but keep in mind we've re-engineered our device.
So it is a very inexpensive in the $12 to $14 range.
So that would be within that $200? Correct.
We're targeting below $200 but at the $200 level we include the device as well.
And then just more broadly.
So as you're thinking about the growth opportunities in the SMB segment either before or since announcing the Vocalocity acquisition.
Has the board thought a little bit more about the allocation of capital? And whether there could be a greater return earned for shareholders by maybe slowing the buyback and putting more money into whether it's more scale or someone before was asking about the marketing? Have there been elements of consideration just in terms of capital allocation around this expanded strategy in the SMB segment? Obviously every time we have a major new initiative consistent with the original growth priorities we have to make choices about how we allocate resources.
It was actually at your conference year and a half ago when I spoke to you and you ask me about small-medium business.
At that point we were still deciding whether we were going to build on our own or consider acquiring and I kept it pretty open-ended.
We have evaluated number of different acquisitions over the past year.
We concluded that was the best message to marketplace and we're really excited about the potential of Vocalocity.
At our board meeting the week before last we actually did have significant conversation about how big do we think that business could be and it is one that obviously has relatively low awareness but has a service set or feature set that is ready now that continues to grow.
And so when you look at the risk profile of investing in that business versus some of the other businesses you have to look hard and trying to accelerate that business as fast as possible.
I think we're to not to be crass but a little bit in a land grab phase in that business.
And we bought this to grow it and have a long-term aspiration to be a number one provider of business solutions in this SMB marketplace.
We do not have any intention of changing our share repurchase program.
We fully intend to retire that as expected in the timeframe we've outlined.
However with the cash that we do have available and the flexibility which is substantial in our own operating business we will evaluate once we put the teams together and review the plans with Wain and his team and decide what kind of fuel we think we can put on that fire and if we believe that we can drive revenues with the better return their versus other alternatives we would do that.
The company's goal is to be the provider of cloud-based connected devices for consumers and businesses.
So connecting people across multiple device is squarely inside of our strategy and management's job is to dynamically reallocate resources.
So you can expect to see that in 2014.
Last question.
Looking at this SMB segment how do you look at the broadband component of this? The offer that you have or say what Vocalocity has I guess you could summarize it's like a BYOB bring your own broadband kind of model it seems.
Do you think that's still the best way to go? Do you think that there is ways of trying to partner or being an agent for broadband to make sure that the customer gets the right experience with the products that you're providing just any thoughts on to that? You're right it is primarily you bring your own broadband solution to date.
Most of the companies do have broadband but the quality that broadband varies so we certainly get at Vocalocity as I understand it from the team request for that kind of service.
The question becomes one of can you actually do it in a way that is of quality that gets you the right kind of financial return and is that really required given the upside in the marketplace for the core services that exists today.
I don't have an opinion one way or another at this point in time.
Post-closing I'll engage with the Vocalocity team and get their perspective on the subject.
There are a lot of people who wholesale broadband so I think that's a fairly competitive marketplace.
I'm not sure there is tremendous margin.
I think the real question becomes one of does that really facilitate increased penetration and is that across to doing business to accelerate revenues on the core services for which Vocalocity is differentiated.
So ask me that question again in February and I'll give you a more specific personal point of view.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Dezellem from Tieton Capital.
I have a group of questions.
First of all with the investments that you're making to build business clearly that is having a negative impact on profitability right now which as you've made very clear it's not your long-term intention.
When are you anticipating that we hit that inflection point when the benefits from these investments are no longer are a drag and in fact benefit to the business? First I want to make sure that as folks are where the people confuse some of the items.
We've certainly seen some ARPU pressure in our business so that's touch revenue to some extent.
We've more than offset that ARPU impact with reduction in cost primarily in cost.
So we are engineering our business to deal with the pricing compression we see and some of the old premium domestic services which we considered it will ongoing be a drag that's the nature of the business that we've got as part of our legacy.
And we are building new revenue stream on top of that as we speak.
As we speak to the investments that we're making quarterly this year as we've talked before we fully expect that those investments will generate revenues and certain investments are largely marketing and staff to build out new products and services in 2015.
So 2014 you should think about as kind of stable ongoing investment.
The real question becomes one of as we see additional opportunities for growth in 2015 do we continue to invest? And our philosophy is we're building this company for long-term profitable revenue growth.
And if we can fund that revenue growth at a good return on our customer acquisition investment we'll continue to do that.
So I don't want to set an expectation.
You're going to see some turning off of investment as we turn the page to calendar 2015 and magically increase EBITDA by $15 million or $20 million a quarter.
That could happen we certainly have the capacity for that because we spent so much in sales and marketing expense.
But we'll be evaluating our approach largely based on are we getting a reasonable return.
We use to expect to see all things being equal improvements in 2015 as the investments for which we're paying today get a small material revenues.
And then two additional questions.
First of all net line addition.
You talked that you are expecting those to continue to be favorable.
What are you looking for in terms of level relative to where we're at now? Meaning are you expecting an increase or it to hold steady at the current net line addition rate? No we're only five weeks into the quarter just too early for us to know that with the holiday season given that we're 11 000 net.
That can be made or broken around those numbers with too much of the quarter to go.
So it's difficult for me to give you any additional guidance versus what I've already shared.
Let me do a follow-up it might be more difficult to answer than that one even.
And over the course of the next year where would you like to see that number move to? Well I'd like to see that number move to dramatic net adds and I have great confidence that with Vocalocity's addition even beyond their run rate and our ability to accelerate their growth by some of the things we think we can do under the Vonage brand.
I think you should expect that 2015 with the combined companies will be material net adds for the year 2014.
And then income statement question.
I don't think this was addressed that the tax rate moved up approximately 10 percentage points to nearly 49%.
Would you discuss the dynamics there please? It was mainly due to losses in U.K.
and Brazil.
And so these are one-time items related to our foreign entities.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Burns from Sidoti &amp; Company.
Just wanted to follow up on how the model going forward? In terms of how you're going to be reporting your subscriber statistics? Will you be breaking out Vocalocity from your kind of core business as you've been reporting historically or is it going to all be reported in one consolidated number? Greg we would expect to report it on a consolidated basis.
As we do today we give certain KPIs which give specifics around our business and we would expect to do that but generally we expect to report it on a consolidated basis.
And I would just note as we said in our script that Vonage Business Solutions will actually have what Vocalocity is doing today but also what Vonage is doing today in business.
So there is going to be -- and then growth initiatives within the SMB business on top of that.
So it's going to be some pretty significant mixing there and blending of lines which is why we're choosing to report it that way.
And we'll provide key KPIs so you'll be able to compare general performance with competitors who also quite frankly has a different range of KPIs and information they are sharing even though they are considered peer player.
So we'll try you give transparency around how we're performing relative to peers.
But because of the numbers of moving parts internally and even some of the support infrastructure it will be difficult to report that as an individual business in total P&amp;L.
Thank you for joining us.
With that we'll conclude the call today.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day everyone.
And welcome to the Vonage Holdings Corporation First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Just as a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Leslie Arena Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ms.
Arena.
Thank you.
Good morning.
And welcome to our first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Speaking on our call this morning will be Marc Lefar Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Pearson CFO.
Also joining us are Joe Redling President Consumer Services; and by phone in Atlanta Wain Kellum President Vonage Business Solutions.
Marc will discuss the company’s strategy and progress and Dave will review our financial results.
Slides are accompanied Dave’s discussion are available on the IR website.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks we will be happy to take your questions.
As referenced on slide two I would like to remind everyone that statements made during this call may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These and all forward-looking statements are based on management’s expectations and depend on assumptions that maybe incorrect or imprecise.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
More information about those risks and uncertainties is highlighted on the second page of the slide and contained in our SEC filings.
We caution listeners not to rely unduly on these statements and disclaim any intent or obligation to update them.
During this call we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation to GAAP is available on the IR website.
And now I will turn the call over to Marc.
Thank you Leslie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on the call today.
We reported a solid start to the year highlighted by continued excellent results at Vocalocity.
Stable revenue and strong cash flow in our North American consumer business the launch of consumer services in Brazil and introduction of our ReachMe Roaming mobile feature.
Vocalocity now rebranded as Vonage Business Solutions or VBS for short grew revenue 40% year-over-year and 12% sequentially on a pro forma basis.
Led by these strong results consolidated gross line additions grew to 191 000 the highest level since the first quarter of 2009 churn increased by 10 basis points to 2.6% and net line additions grew to 13 000.
This morning we announced the material increase in retail distribution.
Through agreements signed with four new retail partners we are tripling the number of stores that will be offering BasicTalk.
In addition we signed online distribution agreement with Amazon.
Once completed we expect to expand the retail footprint and improved online presence will drive additional subscriber growth at low end of segment with minimal incremental marketing investment.
Our financial results for the quarter was solid adjusted EBITDA was $29 million the highest level in four quarters.
Revenue increased 5% sequentially and 6% year-over-year to $221 million reflecting the exhorting growth of VBS.
This is our first quarter of year-over-year revenue growth since the third quarter of 2011.
We continued executing on our balanced approach to capital allocation by investing for growth and returning capital to shareholders.
During the first quarter we repurchased $10 million or 2.4 million shares of Vonage stock.
Let me now spend a few minutes talking in more detail about Vonage Business Solutions.
Results for VBS clearly demonstrate the power of a combination of Vonage and Vocalocity and our ability to accelerate VBS is already rapid growth.
Revenue for VBS was $19 million.
As I mentioned this is up 40% year-over-year and 12% sequentially on a pro forma basis.
Net new accounts for the quarter were a record 4 600 up 249% versus prior year and up 72% sequentially.
Due to the great collaboration of our teams immediately after closing we have already realized many of the synergies targeted at the time of acquisition including a dramatic reduction the cost of telephony services.
Revenue synergies are also evidence.
The completion of our rebranding efforts increased marketing investment expanded distribution and shifting of Vonage small business leads to Vonage Business Solutions all contributed to the accelerate revenue growth.
On the cost front we have fully interconnected VBS to Vonage’s intelligent call routing platform reducing domestic termination rates by 67% and we're providing VBS customers with access with some of the lowest international long-distance rates in the market.
We also reduced E911 cost by more than 50% and have plan to capitalize on cost synergies and other areas including mobile product development.
Collectively these actions have contributed to a 4 percentage point improvement in VBS direct margins.
We anticipate further cost reductions and productivity improvements as we implement the same customer care technology and workforce management tools that have delivered major savings and service improvement at Vonage over the past five years.
On our last call I spoke about a number of initiatives underway to drive growth.
Let me update you on our progress.
First we said we are focused on improving our digital yield by redirecting business prospect web traffic from Vonage to VBS and by optimizing our search programs.
These activities are well underway.
As a result of page search optimization and increase investment with meaningfully increase bookings to this channel cost-efficient.
Although page search currently represents less than 20% of VBS bookings the contribution from this channel is growing more than 50% faster than the growth of the overall business.
Second I discussed the expansion of Vocalocity's referral program to include existing Vonage customers.
Launched in January this expanded program shows promise as we have already signed up 1 000 existing Vonage customers to our referral network.
While VBS customers still make up the vast majority of our referrals today.
We expect the number of Vonage customers participating this program and the level of contribution to grow over time referrals are our lowest-cost channel and an important contributor to efficient growth.
Third we continue to test the impact of a variety of device and service promotions.
Many of these programs have been very successful in driving incremental sales.
We will continue to refined and expand the most productive of these programs.
Fourth as a result of our highly competitive cost structure we are now able to test offers to small and medium businesses which international calling is an important part of their business.
And fifth we are building distribution for the expansion of our reseller and teller sales channels.
Since closing the acquisition we have substantially increased our direct and outbound telesales staffing and the number of value-added resellers.
We have expanded our direct and outbound teams by nearly 40% since the closing of the acquisition.
These investments have been a key driver of the sales growth achieved during the quarter.
In summary we are very pleased with our progress since closing of the acquisition.
In most regards we are exceeding our original expectations.
We will continue to invest accelerated growth through additional scaling of direct and channel distribution while adding resources in R&amp;D and we will strengthen our customer support and service capabilities.
In the coming months we will turn more of our attention to new strategic opportunities including SoHo with full self service capability possible coaches to move up market white label partnerships and additional acquisitions.
Let’s now move to a discussion of our North American consumer services business.
Over the part several years we have gained substantial traction attracting international long-distance callers.
We are the market share leader leader in [Asian and Indian] (ph) calling segment have a growing base of Hispanic international callers and we see further opportunities to grow this segment.
Our extensions product which allows customers to extend their home international calling plan to their mobile phone has been extremely popular with Vonage world customers.
We are finding that consumers are increasingly responsive to marketing efforts that highlight value-added features such as extensions and virtual numbers.
In fact we recently featured extensions in our television advertising and immediately saw an increase in prospect flow reinforcing the strong appeal extending our calling plans to mobile.
In addition in the coming weeks we will launch our physical calling card product renew retail distribution network they will put our product into thousands of targeted locations serving large segment of the international long-distance market that prefers to pay cash use prepaid calling cards and call from their mobile phone.
We will be evaluating our early entry into this business over the next several months and we will provide updates as we progress.
We made progress in certain segments in the core consumer business during the quarter.
We did experience some challenges.
Gross Line Additions or GLAs were up year-over-year due to the continued contributions of BasicTalk.
On a sequential basis however we experienced a modest quarterly decline in GLAs.
This decline was due to several factors.
First the impact of inclement weather in January and February had a disproportionate negative impact in our retail channel.
Second seasonality played a role as we saw stronger sales during our holiday period in Q4 to the retail channel then we did in the latter part of Q1.
And third we no longer adding SoHo customers as these leads are now transferred to VBS.
In addition to a sharp fall in GLAs we experienced a modest uptick in churn due to the historically higher churn rate of early life customer's acquired in retail channels which has increased as a percentage of the total customer base.
As a result overall net line additions in the consumer business were slightly negative for the quarter.
On the digital front work is progressing on the upgrading of our digital platforms and tools.
We are in the midst of redesigning our online experience in e-commerce platform to increase prospect traffic enhance the learning and buying experience and improve conversion.
We're also optimizing our platform to better support customers using smartphones and tablets.
We expect to be in market with testing of the redesigned site late Q3.
BasicTalk is our 999 per month low-end domestic calling product launched nationally nearly one year ago.
The past year the product was sold exclusively through Wal-Mart stores nationwide and online.
It has performed well and it’s a bestseller in its category on Walmart.com.
In just 12 months we have created a compelling new brand which has help to attract new customers validate a retail-oriented distribution strategy and establish a strong foothold in the low-end domestic calling market.
As I mentioned earlier we are now taking the next step in the evolution of BasicTalk by broadly expanding availability to new retailers and online with Amazon.
These new partnerships triple our current footprint to 12 000 locations nationwide and will provide access to the 500 million unique visitors to Amazon.com every month.
We expect that this expanded distribution combined with our existing strong relationship with Wal-Mart will enable us to attract a growing portion of the ultra-value segment represent a market of more than 40 million households.
It should also lead to improvements in marketing efficiency and SLAC as we spread our fixed costs over more locations.
We expect initial availability of BasicTalk in the first of these new locations beginning late this quarter with expansion throughout the third quarter.
Now let us turn our attention to international and mobile.
In the past several weeks we reached two important milestones against these growth priorities.
The first is the launch of our consumer service in Brazil.
Just over a year ago we announced our plans to enter this large and rapidly growing market.
Applying a phased market entry approach we are now offering consumers in select markets a straightforward high-value calling solution delivering substantial savings over current rates.
Our plans offer unlimited calling to landlines throughout the country for a low flat monthly rate.
Customers can also make calls to mobiles within Brazil at low fixed per minute rates regardless of the network called or time of day offering savings of up to 50% compared to leading providers.
In the market known for complex high pricing we are focused on meeting consumer demand that delivers transparent price and a positive customer service experience.
The service leverages our cloud-based platform and is supportive of Vonage customer care.
The core offering also includes a localized Vonage Mobile app allows customers to use their home calling plans to place calls from their smartphones at no additional costs.
This is particularly valuable in this market recalling across cellular providers is very expensive.
Our plans also leverage Vonage’s international long-distance rates which were among the most competitive available with calls to United States and other top destinations more than 80% lower than major competitors.
As part of our phased rollout we are now marketing services in two cities Curitiba and Brasilia and expanding traditional markets over the next several months.
Our television print and digital marketing all emphasize the key benefits of our service -- simplicity transparency and mobility at extremely competitive prices.
We believe that Brazil can become a substantial contributor to revenue over time and we will update you on our progress in the coming quarters.
Last week we introduced the patented new feature on our Vonage Mobile app ReachMe Roaming which allows U.S.
travelers to receive free incoming calls when connected to Wi-Fi no matter where they are in the world.
Combined with free outbound calling to all U.S.
phone numbers in Vonage Mobile U.S.
customers can enjoy seamless two-way communication in their existing phone numbers while traveling abroad at no cost.
ReachMe Roaming is currently available in United States for Android users on GSM carriers.
We expect to expand the service to additional carriers countries and iOS.
Current app users can simply update their Vonage Mobile app with the latest version to utilize this feature.
The feature is easy to turn on when traveling.
Users simply select ReachMe Roaming from the app settings to activate the service.
U.S.
travelers can use the feature for free in any country where Wi-Fi connection is available.
The feature can also be used over 3G and 4G though data charges may apply.
And those adoptions enable us to learn about user behavior where we are providing ReachMe Roaming free for limited period.
Throughout the past year quality improvements and new features including video calling and video voicemail have made us one of the most robust communication apps available.
We also continue to make solid progress adding customers on mobile extensions with 850 000 customers signed up for this feature.
Since launching the service in 2012 approximately 3 billion international long distance minutes of use have occurred over extensions.
Today 40% of extensions app calls are made over Wi-Fi.
Importantly many of our mobile capabilities are now being leveraged across geographies and business units including Brazil the U.K.
and in the future Vonage Business Solutions.
Future enhancements will bring new benefits to both businesses and consumers.
Business customers will be able to make and receive calls from their desktop number maintaining both their work identity and their personal identity on a single handset.
Our product roadmap include the next-generation of mobile services that create true alternatives to traditional wireless carriers and allow consumers to communicate seamlessly over any connected device at low cost virtually anywhere in the world.
In summary it was a solid quarter led by very strong results of VBS.
The strong performance reaffirms our belief in the large growth opportunity presented by the SMB market.
We are pleased with the acquisition and the progress we've made as a combined company.
Looking ahead we remain focused on investments to drive long-term revenue growth and we will continually reallocate resources based upon market response.
We will also continue to return value to shareholders through a buyback.
I’d like to close by commenting on my plans to retire from Vonage.
During the past six years I’ve been privileged to work with an exceptional team and a highly engaged support of Board of Directors.
Together we completed a comprehensive turnaround of the company.
Vonage is financially stronger than it's ever been and we are making good progress against our growth initiatives.
The acquisition of Vocalocity is complete and has positioned the company well in growing new market.
As a result of our progress and after considering the long-term needs of the company as well as my personal goals it became clear that now is the right time to select a new leader for Vonage.
I'm committed to leading our efforts as the Board searches for new Chief Executive and I will continue to serve as CEO during the orderly leadership transition which we expect to conclude by year end.
With that I'll pass the call to Dave.
Thanks Marc and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to review our first quarter financial results.
For beginning I’d like to note that this is the first quarter for which the company is reporting consolidated results including Vonage Business Solutions for the entire quarter.
As you may recall fourth quarter 2013 results included only a partial quarter of VBS’s results collecting the November 15th close of the acquisition.
Similar to last quarter Table 2 of our earnings release shows VBS key operating statistics on a pro forma basis as a Vonage owned VBS for all periods presented.
Beginning on slide four adjusted EBITDA was $29 million up from $25 million sequentially context through managing VBS in the area of EBITDA breakeven.
Though there were a number of offsetting items regarding EBITDA primary operating drivers of the sequential increase or reduction in Vonage consumer marketing and selling and improved costs due to international termination rates.
Adjusted EBITDA was down from $34 million in the year ago quarter due to lower Vonage consumer revenue and higher SG&amp;A.
Moving to slide five revenue was $221 million up $10 million sequentially due to a full quarter of VBS and the acceleration of VBS revenue.
On a pro forma basis revenue was flat sequentially.
Revenue increased from $209 million year ago due to the addition of VBS revenue to more than offset the impact of lower ARPU in the consumer business as we added more customers on lower price plans.
On a pro forma basis VBS grew -- VBS revenue grew 40% year-over-year and 12% sequentially to $19 million.
ARPU was $28.86 up from $28.72 sequentially down from $29.61 in the prior year quarter.
The ARPU declined from the prior year quarter reflects the growing proportion of BasicTalk lines in our base over the past year.
This impact was lessened by the inclusion of VBS which accounted for the sequential increase.
GAAP net income was $5 million or $0.02 per share up from $4 million or $0.02 per share sequentially.
This increase is a result of higher EBITDA and lower acquisition-related costs offset by higher acquisition amortization of intangible of $3.8 million.
GAAP net income was down from $13 million or $0.06 per share in the year ago quarter.
This reflects the deal related amortization above and higher interest expense offset by lower income taxes.
GAAP net income also includes an add back of net loss attributable to non-controlling interest reflecting the 30% of our Brazil venture owned by our partner in the quarter.
For the first quarter this item was $383 000.
As we discussed last quarter we implemented a change to the ownership structure of our joint venture reflecting Datora’s inability to meet certain of its JV funding obligations.
As a result Vonage's ownership in the joint venture increased from 70% to approximately 90% at the end of the first quarter.
Datora continues to be Vonage's operating partner and maintains an equity position in the Brazil venture.
Adjusted net income was $13 million or $0.06 per share up sequentially from $10 million and $0.05 per share down from $21 million or $0.10 per share in the year ago quarter.
These changes are primarily driven by the adjusted EBITDA trends I noted.
The adjusted net income metric excludes the acquisition-related items of intangibles amortization and deal expenses and adjust for the fact that Vonage is not a material cash taxpayer due to our over $700 billion NOL.
Moving to slide six we continue to execute on structural cost reduction opportunities and further reduced cost of telephony services or COTS.
COTS increased to $53 million from $52 million sequentially due to the addition of VBS COTS.
COTS decreased from $55 million a year ago despite the incremental volume from VBS which added several million dollars of termination costs in the first quarter.
The overall decline is due to lower termination in network costs but by meaningful improvement in international long distance termination costs per line declined by 18%.
Marc discussed we've already fully interconnected VBS to the Vonage intelligent call routing platform and lower VBS’s termination costs by 67%.
Combined with the reduction in VBS’s E-911 costs and other cost savings I mentioned we've improved our consolidated direct margins to 72%.
COTS per line was $6.88 down from $7.09 sequentially and from $7.82 in the first quarter of last year.
Selling general and administrative expense for the first quarter was $78 million.
This is up $5 million from the fourth quarter up in the inclusion of a full quarter of VBS.
SG&amp;A increased from $63 million in the prior year due to the addition of VBS’s SG&amp;A higher assisted selling expense and an increase in compensation and employee related expense across Vonage.
These factors were partially offset by an 11% improvement in customer care cost per line reflecting continued improvements in care metrics including Average Handle Time which declined 8% from a year ago and First Call Resolution which improved by 5%.
Marketing expense was $57 million down from $58 million sequentially and up from $52 million a year ago due to the addition of VBS.
Subscriber line acquisition cost or SLAC decreased $299 from $331 sequentially and from $349 year ago.
SLAC decreased for its both period as a result of higher growth subscriber line addition driven by basic BasicTalk and Vonage Business Solutions.
SLAC in consumer was down year-over-year and sequential.
Turning to slide seven.
Gross line additions or GLAs were 191 000 up from 175 000 sequentially and up from 148 000 in the prior year’s quarter aided by VBS to grow accounts to 13 000 up 18% sequentially and 53% from the prior year.
Consolidated customer churn was 2.6% up from 2.5% sequentially primarily due to the higher churn rate of customers coming through retail channels which have increased as a percentage of the total customer base.
VBS churn declined to 1.6% in the quarter from 1.8% sequentially and will tend to fluctuate given the relative size of its account base.
Higher gross line additions more than offset the uptick in churn resulting in 13 000 net line additions in the quarter our fourth consecutive quarter of positive net line.
It is important to understand that our strategy is to maximize the total number of lines in revenue for Vonage on a consolidated basis.
As a result in the last quarter we directed thousands of Vonage consumer leads seeking to purchase small business product to VBS.
This shift along with the other market factors that Marc referenced resulted in a net line loss in the consumer business.
Although accounts from the Vonage leads have lower average lines per account in VBS’ historical number.
All of these accounts are incremental at VBS’ organic growth.
In addition the ARPU and average lines generated by VBS on these leads is better than the levels achieved by Vonage before the acquisition.
Even without the effect of these leads VBS revenue grew materially faster than last quarter.
I’ll now move to a discussion of CapEx cash flow and the balance sheet on slide eight.
For the quarter CapEx including the acquisition and development of software assets is $4 million down from $6 million sequentially and flat compared to the year ago quarter.
The adjusted EBITDA minus CapEx calculation is $25 million reflecting the substantial cash flow generation capacity of our business.
Free cash flow in the seasonally low first quarter was $6 million down from $30 million sequentially due primarily to changes in working capital from the timing of payments and was up from $5 million in the year ago quarter.
Cash and cash equivalents as of March 31 were $59 million including $4 million in restricted cash and net debt was $54 million.
This takes into account the repayment of $20 million of our revolving credit facility debt to save interest expense.
Revolver borrowings were therefore $55 million at the end of the quarter leaving $20 million of revolver capacity and term debt was amortized down to $41 million.
We ended the quarter with a strong balance sheet reflected a net debt to adjusted EBITDA of 0.5 times.
Strong balance sheet and cash flow generation capacity Vonage has significant strategic and financial flexibility.
We continue to see interesting M&amp;A opportunities particularly in the SMB-hosted VoIP market.
We believe our financial strength is a competitive advantage.
We continued our balanced approach to capital allocation in the quarter repurchasing 2.4 million shares for $10 million.
At the end of the first quarter we had $39 million left on our current $100 million share repurchase authorization which runs through the end of 2014.
We intend to continue to execute on this authorization.
Since beginning our buyback in August 2012 we’ve repurchased 34 million shares for $94 million at an accretive average of $2.78 per share.
We’ve made strong progress integrating Vocalocity into our business and are pleased with the synergies we've already realized.
Our confidence in the opportunity in SMB has only strengthened and we will continue to invest for growth in this critical component of our business.
We look forward to providing an update on our progress in Brazil with expanded distribution of BasicTalk in retail and online.
We remain focused on revenue growth and planned to continue the discipline of improving our cost structure and the return of capital shareholders.
Thank you for your support to Vonage.
I will now turn the call back over to Leslie to initiate Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Dave.
Operator please open the line for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of George Sutton of Craig-Hallum.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and congratulations on the results.
I wondered if you could talk about the 40% growth number on the SMB side.
Obviously that’s a great result and I'm wondering what's causing that.
Obviously the market is growing nicely but I'm curious if you could kind of break it down into the brand changes you made maybe some competitive changes that have occurred meaning others moving up market and what you've done uniquely on the marketing side? George good morning.
Thanks.
I have to flip this to Wain who is joining us from Atlanta and let him comment on the progress.
Wain? Wain do we have you? Sorry about that.
Thanks Marc.
One of the thing that we were concerned about when we put the two companies together is that we just have a lot of work to do in the systems migrate compliance work and rebranding and we were able to get the rebranding work done incredibly quickly.
And that rebranding work has had a really positive impact on taking our marketing dollars and making them work harder and do more.
So we’ve been able to cast a wider net and increase our marketing spend to generate a lot more lead flow which generated a lot more customers and lot more booking as you noted from the numbers.
But we've been able to do it in a way where our marketing egged efficiencies had actually improved as opposed to on the road at which would have happened before the merger.
And so now what we’re doing is just trying to find new ways to put money to work to cast a wider net.
Got you.
There is also -- Wain you guys have invested a fair bit in increasing rapidly the scale of your direct sales teams both direct and outbound teams as well correct.
You got increased size almost 40% just during the last couple of quarters alone I believe right? Yeah.
That’s true.
And it all starts with spending marketing dollars to generate leads and then happened in the past to be able to pursue with leads in flow and so everything from scaling exact like you would expect.
Last question from me.
Marc if we could think forward a bit this is clearly a forward-looking question.
When we look at the movement of apps sort of how significant that ultimately I think will be to this business.
How does it change the business model in your view? How does it look different in a few years than it does today? It's a great question.
My view of this a few years from now is we won’t talk about home phone service or even mobile phone service.
We’ll talk about communication accessible from any device based on who you are where you are the way you want to experience it.
If you think about mobile today and people initially go to mobile phone I think that you’re going to see that expanded to tablets and all forms of computing devices having even some of the in-home broadband connected devices from television screens and then all different forms of notebook computers everything is good to be communications enabled.
And I think you want to have those serve you whichever one you're engaged with for traditional voice messaging and video.
So as we think about the business while we talk about our mobile initiatives we build those with a mindset to how can we leverage that across our business units and geographies.
So for our launch in Brazil for example where we've built essentially what is the extensions product in the U.S.
our initial pitch as people experience Vonage’s when you buy service at Vonage you can make calls from your mobile devices or from your home whatever you prefer.
And the value proposition is actually competitive versus mobile carriers and home service providers simultaneously.
So it’s a completely different land through which consumers will experience the value proposition.
And I think that's how it's going to be in the future.
I think people in this call -- we still even in our own business think about it as home phone service and we will add mobile or mobile becomes an afterthought.
Going forward I think you’re going to see us truly integrated unified communications and the way people experience it will vary by customer segment whether its B2B or whether its in a consumer segment across all the devices.
People won’t really consider how they buy by legacy type home versus mobile but just expect that it works on any of their devices.
That’s very helpful perspective.
Thank you.
Next question Operator? Our next question comes from the line of Greg Burns of Sidoti &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
If you look at the -- could you just compare the Brazilian offerings with your domestic offerings in terms of may be ARPU and then also are the Brazilians subscribers included in the GLAs in the total subscriber numbers that you will be reporting on a go-forward basis? So let me take the first part of that.
And I’ll ask Dave to comment on reporting structure because of the joint venture structure.
So in terms of pricing keep in mind that the Brazil market is actually a bit more like the U.S.
market was 10 or 12 years ago.
To call from city-to-city or state-to-state in Brazil you are paying significant per minute charges.
You pay differently on mobile phones based on time of day and whether you're on your own carrier mobile-to-mobile calling within the carrier network or to different carriers.
Over the last decade in the U.S.
we’ve all become accustomed to flat rate pricing.
Business doesn’t matter inside the country.
That simply doesn’t exist with any major carrier in Brazil.
So our value proposition is anywhere in Brazil you’ve the ability to make calls regardless of distance at one flat rate.
Calls to mobiles which have very high termination rates and are on a permanent basis we provide significant discounts roughly 50% to what other carriers are providing and that comes inside of existing package.
If you want to upgrade that to include international calling to the U.S.
our rates for international calling are about 80% lower and which you can get from anybody else.
So our international value proposition is huge.
But to be clear our primary market segment really is domestic calling regardless of device in Brazil.
And as I mentioned earlier it is making calls from cordless phone in your home or from your mobile phone from the very start.
So that’s all about the value proposition.
And we’ve seen a very strong initial traffic into our website and telesales center it’s only in two small markets and it’s been less than two weeks.
So we don’t have a lot of quantitative numbers to report at this point.
We will obviously reporting our progress in future quarters ARPU because we don’t know the rate plan next in totality is difficult to project but it’s going to be roughly similar to Vonage World kinds of services depending on what attach rates we have in some of our enhanced features.
You can think about that as roughly the $30 U.S.
equivalent ARPU plus or minus 10% 15% so that gives you a ballpark kind of range.
We are not entering with BasicTalk like sense of pricing it’s more like the traditional Vonage ARPU.
So you shouldn’t expect to see any kind of dilutive impact the ARPU would have on a consolidated basis.
And then I will talk -- I will forward to Dave to talk about the reporting.
Sure.
Greg going forward you will see GLAs from Brazil in our total GLAs reported.
So we consolidate the joint venture.
We have consolidated and we will continue to consolidate the joint venture.
That didn’t change with the ownership change.
And hence you will see GLAs and net lines appear in our reporting going forward.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question Operator? Next question comes from the line of Michael Latimore of Northland Capital.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Thanks.
Thanks for the nice quarter.
The COTS per line is that -- that’s very low that’s sustainable do you think? I would say that the main components of their termination costs and network costs and termination costs are the things that tend to fluctuate and have been driving the decline in COTS.
A big part of that for us is international long distance termination costs and we’ve had a very good trend on those.
They can fluctuate it depends on the country.
We typically have a contract with a termination partner or termination partners in a country.
And depending on what that contract looks like the rate can fluctuate into our favor over the last few quarters.
And more over we’ve done a lot to try to control that.
And in particular we have a contract with Tata in India which has been publicly filed which governs our termination there.
That’s the biggest country in which we terminate traffic.
Mike I will add to that just the -- as you think about the components of COTS if we’re thinking about VBS for example that COTS per line is obviously quite sustainable because it’s primarily domestic.
So the savings we’ve got those are sustainable those are systematic and won’t change.
But as Dave rightly pointed out the real variable portion and frankly the only one that could even be material is termination to India so we watch that carefully we try to manage that we have very good and highly competitive long-term contracts with India.
I would also mention that if we’re to see any kind of increases we know that we’re at least as buffered as all the major competitors that are completing calls to India.
We believe we’ve got a competitive advantage to that country which is the one that has the largest international COTS cost to us.
Okay.
And with regard VBS you mentioned the possibility of going up market there any new thoughts there that’s something is definitive or still looks? Nothing definitive at this point in time Mike.
We have been focused primarily on accelerating what was already a very nice trajectory that Wain and his team had delivered.
We are pleased with the branch transition which is complete.
The team is doing a great job improving our search engine marketing.
We are comfortable that we’re able to keep track of growth and keep up with the pace of growth and accelerate that by expanding our existing channels.
And we’ve got additional folks that are spending a lot of time thinking about and actually working on a host of strategic opportunities which includes actually inking white label partnership with large third parties as well as going up market directly M&amp;A activities and actually this will leave a large solar opportunity that the Vonage brand can extend to.
We would have to build out and improve self-service capability to deliver that.
So we are still looking through the priority and sequencing of those but we are pretty pleased right now fishing in the existing pond but you can’t help but look at in this marketplace which is pretty greenfield how fast you want to move into some of these other segments.
So I expect you will hear little bit more about our plans in the next three to six months.
And just last question on VBS what kind of features or where is the R&amp;D focus the next -- the remainder of the year? Wain would you like to take that one? Sure.
So mainly we’re working on building capacity out because we see an accelerated growth and so a decent amount of R&amp;D of just building out capacity.
We are adding features that we need for.
And as you know Mike larger clients are willing to use our cloud service when they need more analytics and more reporting.
So we are adding analytics and more reporting.
And we also are working really hard with the Vonage core mobile team to integrate combined mobile strategy where people can do more and more things and leverage a lot of the rich robust features that Vonage has been offering their consumers like video voicemail but you will see a lot more mobility things come up.
Great.
Good luck.
Next question Operator? The next question comes from Dmitry Netis of William Blair &amp; Company.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Yes thank you very much.
I have three questions guys.
First I think just to sort of follow on on the India side.
Did I hear you guys say that the current channel program includes the referral network only for VBS? And if so can we expect you guys to go into this maybe enablement mode where some of your VARs potentially kind of own the customer and your revenue share that which might kind of drive better sale momentum.
Any thoughts there would be great.
So let me just clarify my comment and then I will let Wain describe the enablement for VARs.
No the referral network is not the only channel it is one subset.
We have increased the number of VARs channel over the last couple of quarters.
The nature of those agreements and how that’s progressing I will let Wain talk about that in bit more detail.
Certainly and then just to be clear because of some ties back to Mike Latimore’s question as well as moving a market.
The unique dynamic that we are seeing at VBS is that in our core market we serve and this is what market has a little bit more detail.
And the core market we serve we are finding that for every dollar marketing dollars that we spend we can generate an increasingly larger number of lifetime value.
So some of our competitors felt the need to move up market because they have started to see a market decline and marketing efficiency and what we are seeing is the exact opposite.
Our lifetime value in our core market is doing well.
And then when you take our cost advantage that’s significant and meaningful our lifetime profitability is compared very favorably to people we compete with.
So a big part of our effort is just cutting more and more dollars to work to generate a kind of flow that we have been generating in the past.
Marc mentioned paid for click that’s going very well.
Our organic work on the website is doing very well.
Our direct mail and our outbound is going very well.
Our referrals continue to scale a long side.
One of the new things that Marc mentioned is January that we launched an ability for Vonage residential customer to refer.
And although we are early on we already have 1 000 people registered.
We think that over time can be meaningful as well.
So we see a tremendous amount of upside that we can continue to grow pretty rapidly in our core market.
That’s helpful Wain.
So there is nothing in store at the moment to pin out what market will have thought our channel partners really take something better? Resellers are an important part of business model and so that continues to grow as well.
And in fact the number of resellers that we’ve added since we are very pleased with the number of resellers we’ve added since we closed the transaction.
And the thing you are mentioning Dmitry is that there are certain kind of resellers that are interested in partnering with Vonage but either in a white label or a cobranded scenario.
And so they are interested in using our software but they want to own the customer they want to own the terms of the service.
And our software is enabled to be able to white label as well as cobranded.
And Marc had mentioned in his formal statement that our expectations of that through the end of the year will be able to announce several white label or cobranded relationship that should be meaningful in 2015.
Very good.
Thank you.
That helps answer that question.
And then very quickly on the other side of the business Marc I think you said the Amazon is a project or one of the retail channel partners you are working on that is quite interesting.
Can you elaborate on that and how material that contribution might possibly be for BasicTalk and is that just domestic or do you think they can also take you outside the U.S.? The only thing that I am really permitted to share at this point in time is we have signed a definitive distribution agreement will be distributed on Amazon.com.
This is not a white label agreement.
It will not be under Amazon brand.
It will be the BasicTalk brand sold through the traditional Amazon retail store environment.
Beyond that there is not additional perspective I can share with you at this time.
Okay.
And when is that launch again is at this quarter? It will be before the quarter is over yes.
Got you.
All right.
Thank you.
And then the last one sort of a high level thoughts on the new leader you guys are looking to hire to replace you Marc I mean obviously goes without saying there has been a tremendous progress on the turnaround and what you have done with this company.
So what are some of the qualities you are looking -- you for in the new leader? What’s the focus going to be on? Is it revenue grow mostly is it something else? Can you give us a sense of that? Yeah.
Thanks for that.
I mean just we’ve started the search.
We formed the search committee.
We’re down with the final selection among the few top search firms we expect to be well underway in the search very very quickly.
In terms of the range of experiences of the type of leader we’re looking for a lot of established and prudent leaders that will have understanding of technology and software.
We’d love to see somebody who has the mix of business-to-business skill sets as well as those that might be traditionally expected within Vonage mobile certainly be a plus.
But open to a lot of very experience and tenure potential executives.
We’ve got a very strong executive team here so we have the ability to have a different range of profiles that could fit exceptionally well.
I think the remix for that CEO is very much unchanged which is aggressive focus on revenue growth.
As you can certainly feel from body language we’re pleased with the SMB market as presented to us thus far and under my tenure and I fully expect on going.
We would expect to continue to invest heavily in that marketplace while there is a lot of room for significant growth.
I think that you will also see a focus on proving the scalability of some of the international ventures and thinking about how mobile can serve all of our business units.
I don’t think you are going to see a substantial change in the fundamental strategies the way those might be executed make certainly change overtime based upon the individual fingerprints that are the thinking of a new leader.
Next question Operator? Okay.
Next question comes from the line of Raghavan Sarathy of Dougherty &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Just couple of questions from my end.
Just on the VBS business revenues grow 40% year-on-year here in the quarter consistent with what we saw last quarter.
But you we talked about more than 70% sequential increase than a net subscriber addition.
So can you talk about whether your continuously momentum in the business is so whether we should expect acceleration revenue growth of the business? Yeah.
So let me hit the topline hit the top of the ways and then see if Wain has additional comments.
So just to clarify last quarter’s growth was 37% this quarter was 40%.
So actually we’re accelerating growth on what is obviously a larger base.
So particularly in light up of doing that on top of merger integration we are feeling pretty good about the early returns.
In terms of the 72% sequential growth that was for net new accounts.
So as you we report churn and net new accounts so that net new account includes both the gross new customers coming in netted for cancellations and that number versus year ago is up 250% that’s what was up 70% sequentially.
Obviously that's new customers so that the forward-looking indicator of what future revenues would do.
So you can think about that as that’s what you’ve added and that group of customers over the next 12 months will be what continues to ramp in revenues.
You won't see much revenues in the quarter from folks who have just signed up is only getting a partial quarter revenues maybe only one bill maybe two at maximum.
So hoping that provides perspective think about that is a measure of rate of growth for revenues not exactly the growth but a leading indicator of revenues going forward and the revenue number speaks for itself that’s was actually booked and pay for based upon the acquisition from prior quarters.
Just a follow-up on that if I may.
I think the last call you sort of talked about how the net subscriber additions actually I believe doubled in the month of December and January as the previous two months.
I guess my question was do you continue to see that type of momentum continuing in your net sub adds? Yeah.
I think we talked about was the number of bookings that we were seeing shortly after close that in the prior couple of months before closing to the two months after that we’ve seen a roughly doubling of new customer bookings.
That was not net booking.
So this net takes out the lead this is kind of more of what’s the real net revenue approach versus what are the bookings in sales.
We’re not going to ongoing report existing percentages of gross numbers but suffice to say to achieve a 72% sequential increase in our net we continue to see very very strong acceleration versus pre-closing on our gross account sales.
Okay.
And then on the core business I know Marc you talked about some of the factors that impacted like weather and some increase churn coming from retail and also redirect leads to VBS.
But then you have some new things happening out in a retail distribution.
So you kind of look at all the different factors how should we think about the core business that will use or going to be stable from here now or should we expect some growth in the business or how should we think about given some of the puts and takes here? So I think you should be thinking about the core business is one that has and will continue to provide very stable strong cash flow.
We do see opportunities for growth in certain sub-segments and we certainly BasicTalk being one of them.
It’s ARPU dynamic.
It’s quite different obviously than Vonage World.
So there definitely some positives that we’re looking at but there's certainly some pressure that exists within the core business and we’re really focused on making sure we’re doing this cost effectively.
So as you’ve seen we have actually invested some in selling and marketing in the consumer business and we’re trying to optimize.
And we can redeploy dollars into other business units and get a better return for revenues that we’re going to be able to and we are going to make that decision.
So we're not going to limit ourselves by unit.
Our goal is to take the investment make in selling and marketing resources and optimize that for the full company.
But generally I think you can think about the core business as stable and we will see fluctuations in different sub-segments positive and negative.
The one thing that will be an ongoing hit is we’re getting much better yield by taking all of our small business leads that were coming in many thousand of them every quarter into the Vonage website and we are handing those directly to VBS whereas we’re seeing a higher increase a better number of average lines per lead as well as higher ARPU and we turn them over to VBS.
It’s still a very small percentage of VBS’s growth but it is on a sequential basis something that is a long-term shift and where the consumer business is benefited from.
So that one is not one that’s going to go away.
Okay.
Thank you.
We have time for one more question Operator.
Our final question comes from the line of Robert Routh of National Alliance.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Yeah.
Good morning.
Nice results.
A couple of quick questions.
You mentioned that you have four new retail change in addition to Walmart and Amazon for the BasicTalk product.
I’m wondering if you could tell us who they are give us any sense obviously it’s a big endorsement to you product to get that many people moving and carry it in addition to Walmart but do you have any more insight as to who these partners maybe? Rob its Marc.
I would love to share but unfortunately the partners won’t allow us to do that until we’re actually in distribution and frankly for some competitive reasons I probably wouldn't want to reveal that.
But obviously tripling the size of distribution you could probably look at the number of mass merchant.
These are not small players these are large mass merchandisers.
You could probably come up with a shortlist if you think they would be not permitted to share at this point.
Okay great.
Fair enough.
And one follow-up on the Amazon relationship.
I know you can’t say much about it right now they’re just kind of reselling their product on the online environment.
But is it safe to say that there is nothing prohibit that relationship from deepening and at some point if you wanted to it is potential for you and Amazon to enter into a larger scale kind of deal given the Amazon Prime doing video and all that the Facebook acquisition that was made recently.
Is it safe to say that that could happen going forward or is that out of line to deepen the relationship? I think I’ve talked in the past about suggesting that you BasicTalk is a white label kind of product for any number of large consumer friendly brands that have a forward leaning technology bias would be a wonderful fit.
So we would certainly love to see that relationship deepen over time.
And if we see some success maybe there will be some interest in that believe me very much open to it.
I should mention because I think I was not clear earlier the relationship with Amazon is not just for BasicTalk we’ll be selling Vonage in the online environment for Amazon as well.
It was the doors with the mass merchant that I was referring to that was BasicTalk expansion only.
Okay great.
It makes sense.
And just the last question is can you give us an update as to your patent portfolio obviously you’ve got a fewer during the quarter you have a big patent portfolio already a bunch of pending a bench of granted.
Obviously you don’t get any value in the stock price for them but clearly they have value otherwise you wouldn’t go after and secure them.
Could you give us an update as to that and what the outlook is for this year in terms of what you expect in term of patents granted? We continue to have a patent intellectual property extraction process that we run monthly and quarterly.
You’ve seen the pace and we’ve talked about some of the very specific numbers.
We can shoot those to you again if you don't have in terms of what's been issued recently.
We can't project what that harvesting will be and what will actually get granted but we do have hundreds of applications pending in the U.S.
and abroad.
And we expect to continue the pace of innovation and to protect those inventions but you can expect that historical course and speed to largely continue.
Of course we can’t guarantee you what the pattern office is going to do.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
With that we will conclude our call today.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Have a great rest of your day.
Good day everyone.
And welcome to the Vonage Holdings Corporation Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Just as a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would now like to turn the conference over to David Pearson Chief Financial Officer.
Sir please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Speaking on our call this morning will be Marc Lefar Chief Executive Officer and I.
Also joining us are Joe Redling President Consumer Services; and by phone in Atlanta Wain Kellum President Vonage Business Solutions.
Marc will discuss the company’s strategy and progress and I will review our financial results.
Slides that accompany today’s discussion are available on the IR website.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks we’ll be happy to take your questions.
As referenced on slide two I would like to remind everyone that statements made during this call may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These and all forward-looking statements are based on management’s expectations and depend on assumptions that maybe incorrect or imprecise.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
More information about those risks and uncertainties is highlighted on the second page of the slide and contained in our SEC filings.
We caution listeners not to rely unduly on these statements and disclaim any intent or obligation to update them.
During this call we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to GAAP is available on the IR website.
And now I will turn the call over to Marc.
Thanks Dave.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Earlier today we reported a solid second quarter highlighted by record revenue growth of 51% in the business solutions group.
North American consumer business continue to generate strong cash flow and expanded the distribution of BasicTalk to be carried in more than 7 000 CBS pharmacy locations.
On the international front we successfully completed the first phase of our Brazil consumer launch in two markets and expanded sales and marketing activities to Sao Paulo last week.
And just yesterday we released important new capabilities to Vonage Mobile to allow a single account to operate concurrently across multiple devices including iPads.
In addition we announced commitments for new expanded $225 million bank facility including $125 million revolver providing substantial flexibility to invest in growth as opportunities arise.
The new facility is larger lower coupon and longer tenure with less restrictive covenant than the one it is replacing.
At closing we will be only 0.5 times net levered.
GAAP revenue was up 7% year-over-year reflecting the accelerated growth driven by the successful acquisition and integration of Vocalocity.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $29 million this is equal to our highest adjusted EBITDA in five quarters and reflects the stability of our core business and continued focus on operational efficiency.
Consolidated gross line additions were 172 000 driven by strong results in business solutions.
The strength was offset by weaker than expected new customer additions and consumer services.
Net lines were negative 7 000 for the quarter.
Consolidated churn was flat sequentially at 2.6% and up 2.4% versus the prior year due to the higher churn rate of customers acquired through assisted sales channels and the rapid growth of BasicTalk which now represents a larger percentage of our customer base than a year ago.
In addition we continue to execute against our balanced approach to capital allocation including a stock repurchase program which we have had in place since August of 2012.
During the second quarter we repurchased $13 million of and track to complete our current $100 million buyback authorization by the end of the year.
I’d like to spend a few minutes now talking in more details about results starting with Vonage Business Solutions.
Over the past eight months we focused intently on growing VBS as rapidly as possible to take advantage of the market for cloud-based communications but still in its early stages of adoption for small and medium businesses.
For the first half of the year VBS performance has exceeded our own high expectations.
Our objective for VBS is that it will contribute a substantial proportion of total Vonage revenue over time as we aspire to be the leader in hosted VoIP for small and medium businesses.
Results of VBS continue to demonstrate the power of our combined company.
Second quarter revenue was $23 million up 51% year-over-year and 18% sequentially.
We added 4 450 net new customers in the quarter an increase of 235% year-over-year.
For context our 51% revenue growth compares favorably to the 30% growth reported Eight by Eight and includes the benefits of an acquisition and the 40% growth reported by RingCentral.
This acceleration in growth has been accomplished with financial discipline to ensure we’re acquiring customers with highly positive lifetime value.
The business has continued to operate on a roughly breakeven basis as we've been using the cash flow generation capability of VBS itself.
In the substantial post acquisition synergies which are well beyond our original expectations to fund investments in new growth.
The strong revenue growth during the second quarter was driven by a combination of increased marketing investment expansion of distribution capabilities the benefits of Vonage rebranding and the improved yield on customer leads that are now being handled by VBS.
More specifically we have meaningfully increased our investments in digital marketing which has been boosted by the broad recognition of the Vonage brand.
As a result we have seen improvements in both paid and organic search results.
During the quarter we significantly increased bookings in this channel cost efficiently.
In addition we have expanded our distribution breadth and yield by addition sales channel and marketing staff since acquisition.
Sales and marketing headcount has grown 45% and we see a great deal of opportunity for further expansion.
On the product front the teams are hard at work enhancing both features and quality.
We have also started to leverage our mobile capabilities to improve upon the current business app to include advanced messaging app management.
In addition to helping us attract new customers and provide additional value to existing customers the new mobile functionality provides the underlying communications technology for third party distribution platforms.
While we will invest aggressively in enhanced sales marketing and product capabilities we are also testing how we can drive sales by leveraging other Vonage assets including the large residential customer base to drive business referrals and our highly competitive international long distance rates which we expect to help us attract businesses with the core need for international calling.
In summary VBS performance continues to exceed our initial expectations.
The teams are working well together and we are fully utilizing the talent across the organization to fuel growth.
We will continue to invest aggressively to maintain market leading revenue growth including through potential acquisitions.
Now I will move to discussion of our North American consumer services business.
Opportunities to grow our international long distance business.
We’re the market share leader in the Asia Indian calling segment with 36% of these household as customers and we are expanding our efforts to increase our base of Hispanic international callers.
A large segment of the Hispanic market in the U.S.
make international calls using prepaid calling cards with a significant portion of this market preferring to paying cash and made calls from their mobile phones.
In late June we've again rolling out the Vonage Global Phone card to directly address this market and it's now available in 10 000 stores.
The Global Phone card provides highly competitive rates to more than 200 international calling destinations including Mexico Cuba and the Dominican Republic.
This product will enable us to capture share in Hispanic segment that we were unable to service before as well as other segments that feed the $1.6 billion market for pay-per-use international calling in the United States.
Mobile continues to be a key part of our consumer strategy.
User adoption of our existing mobile services remains strong and we continue to invest on making mobile a seamless part of Vonage's core service.
Our extensions product which allows customers to extend their home calling plan to their mobile phone is very popular among Vonage international customers.
In the second quarter alone there are more than 400 million minutes of use over extensions representing 29% of all international calls on the Vonage network.
In the next several weeks we expect to roll out a new capability for extension customers that will enable them to receive a call made to the home number across the home number and multiple mobile devices concurrently while seeing the calling party's ID.
This additional capability combined with the new call control features we will give Vonage customers will provide a truly integrated home and mobile experience.
In addition we enhanced our standalone Vonage mobile app yesterday by releasing an update that brings our complete future set to the iPad and multiple smartphones.
Now users can make and receive calls directly from their tablets via Wi-Fi 3G or 4G while continuing to multitask.
Messaging video and off-net voice calling capabilities are also included.
The new release also enables multiple devices to work concurrently.
Now calls to the app will ring all registered devices simultaneously allowing users to answer the call on their smartphone or iPad whichever is most convenient.
Mobile is also a key part of our e-commerce plan.
In the second quarter we enhanced our mobile shopping experience by creating a mobile optimized subscription process for customers who prefer to use smartphones and tablets for their online purchases.
We’re also making progress on the overall redesign and launch of vonage.com and our e-commerce platform.
These changes are designed to improve prospect traffic enhance the learning and buying experience and improve sales conversion.
We’re on track to be in market with testing the new site later late in the third quarter.
Although we have made meaningful progress on many initiatives in the consumer business and exceeded our EBITDA expectations for the quarter revenue was slightly weaker than expected primarily due to a shortfall in new customer additions.
Churn remains stable and attrition on our highest value domestic premium customers those who’ve been with us for over year is lower than a year ago.
Let’s focus on a couple of the drivers of the shortfall in gross line additions.
As we mentioned on our last earnings call we’re highly focused on marketing efficiency and distribution optimization consumer business especially in our assisted sales channels.
The assisted sales channel utilizes direct face-to-face selling across multiple retail chains and a diverse set of community and event venues.
With improved data analytics we’ve been able to identify specific teams and locations that are consistently falling below our thresholds for profitable customer acquisition often due to the churn profile of the customers acquired.
As a result we started a proactive program to eliminate these teams for our distribution network.
During the last couple of weeks we’ve reduced inefficient investment by as much as 10%.
This effort began in the second quarter and its impact on GLAs as a bit more than first expected.
In addition we’ve made some changes to our approach to customer promotion to these channels emphasizing better value with everyday low pricing as opposed to deep discount entry prices that step up later.
The deep discount approach tends to have greater early life churn particularly in these no contract channels.
Optimization will continue for the second half of the year.
While this impacts gross line additions in the short-term the improvement in the quality of customers we acquire will drive lower churns improved profitability and ultimately revenue.
Although painful in the short-term it is the right decision.
Another factor impacting results for the challenging television media environment.
In Q2 many of the cable networks in which we advertise experienced significant ratings declines that resulted in under delivery of our media purchases.
We believe this issue was isolated to the second quarter as we have diversified our network size and we've seen our media efficiency return to acceptable levels.
Let me now take a moment to comment on BasicTalk which also experienced some unforeseen challenges in the second quarter.
While we continue to grow the BasicTalk business and remain optimistic about the market.
Gross line additions were bit lower than expected.
The majority of the decline was driven by seasonal impacts in Wal-Mart's home electronics category which includes telecommunications.
This started in the latter part of Q1 and continued through April and May.
Category sales category sales trends improved through the summer months.
We expect BasicTalk sales will follow accordingly.
In addition our Wal-Mart change to inventory management for BasicTalk was instituted at the end of the first quarter.
This mandatory change shifted in inventory management from our own direct to store fulfillment to Wal-Mart's national system.
This transition negatively impacted sales across high volume store locations as inventory was not redistributed.
And we experienced a number of out of stock situations.
We've been working with Wal-Mart to mitigate the interest sales impacts by making adjustments that will enable us to support our high volume locations.
As we build our distribution network beyond Wal-Mart enthusiasm continues to grow among partners.
On our last earnings call we shared our plan to expand availability through new retailers that would total 12 000 doors.
Now with the addition of CVS pharmacy we expect our total retail footprint to reach 19 000 locations.
The additional distribution will scale throughout the third quarter but full deployment expected by the end of October.
In addition to the retail expansion the plan to introduce compelling new features on the BasicTalk product in fall that will create additional consumer value and a higher level of product differentiation we remain confident that our planned retail expansion and product update will accelerate basic BasicTalk growth in the second half of the year and position as well as we enter the high volume holiday retail season.
Let's now turn to international and our progress in Brazil.
During the second quarter we successfully completed an initial launch of our service in two small cities in Brazil Curitiba and Brasilia which represent about 10% of our addressable market of broadband households.
Our goals in these initial markets were three fold.
First establish stable and scalable production environment.
Second deliver a robust product set with full functionality.
And third understand the market the feel of our concept will measuring the impact of our sales and marking programs.
Although we only had several weeks of selling prior to the start of the World Cup after which most businesses came to a virtual stand still and we choose to curtail marketing efforts.
We were able to achieve most of our operational milestones shortly after launch.
In addition we've validated the appeal of our core value proportion and gained significant learning about sales and marketing program effectiveness.
This learning was incorporated into our launch of Sao Paulo last week.
We expect to continue our rollout to the third and fourth quarters with full deployment to our entire addressable market before year-end.
Although it is still early days we believe the Brazil has the potential to become a substantial contributor to revenue overtime and we’ll continue to update you on our progress as we expand to the major markets.
In 2014 we have continued to build the value of our patent portfolio with 10 new patents granted so far this year.
Vonage now owns nearly 50 U.S.
patent and 240 U.S.
patent applications covering the breadth of our products and services including key innovative feature in our mobile applications network performance and quality and the business voice over IP platform.
In summary it was a solid quarter led by the except results of VBS and made possible by great team work across the entire company.
We are now trending to exceed all of the first year objectives we set at the time of the acquisition and although revenue and customer growth in consumer services were a bit softer than expected the business continues to generate strong cash flow with stable churn and as initiative in place to improve growth while ensuring the efficiency of our sales and marketing investments.
In Brazil operations are running smoothly as we gear up for additional market expansion and we continue to look at all of our businesses through a mobile lens as we strive to meet the needs of customers who want to communicate seamlessly over any connected device the low cost virtually anywhere in the world.
We remained focused on investments to drive a long-term revenue growth and will continually reallocate resources based upon market response.
Our capital allocation strategy remain balanced.
We will continue to return value to shareholders through our buyback and we’ll use the financial flexibility provided our new bank facility to pursue value creating opportunities as they arise.
With that I will now pass the call over to Dave.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I am pleased to review our second quarter financial results.
For beginning I would like to note that this is the second quarter that the company is reporting consolidated results which include Vonage Business Solutions for the entire quarter.
Similar to last quarter table two of our earnings release shows VBS key operating statistics on a pro forma basis as if Vonage owned VBS for all periods presented.
Beginning on slide four adjusted EBITDA was $29 million same as last quarter.
Primary drivers of the strong EBITDA performance were reduction in SG&amp;A better than expected performance in VBS offset by lower consumer revenues.
The context as Marc mentioned we’ve been operating VBS in the area of EBITDA breakeven for the year but that will fluctuate from quarter to quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA was up from $27 million in the year ago quarter due to lower comps and savings in marketing and G&amp;A within the consumer business that offset lower revenue in that segment.
While we are on EBITDA I would like to expand on the cost synergies from the acquisition of Vocalocity that Marc referenced.
At the time we announced the acquisition we have projected recurring cost synergies in the high single-digit million dollar range by 2015.
We are pleased to report that we are well on our way toward meeting this goal.
With $5 million of actual cost synergies projected to be realized in 2014 we have seen synergies across multiple categories.
This includes cost line items domestic termination E911 and international long-distance and administrative functions including finance audit legal and device shipping.
In addition to continuing to realize cost synergies we are driving revenue synergies in the areas of better search yield and higher close rates in addition to deriving higher ARPU on leads coming from our consumer business.
These synergies have resulted in a materially higher service margin at VBS.
On the acquisition announcement call back in October we discussed some material gap between Vocalocity's margins and those of Eight by Eight and RingCentral compared on a like basis.
We believe we have fully closed and exceeded this gap in service margin in two and a half quarters of ownership.
This speaks to the benefits of the acquisition and scale in this business.
Moving to slide five revenue was $219 million down $2 million sequentially due to lower Vonage consumer revenue partially offset by the acceleration of VBS revenue.
Revenue increased 7% from $205 million a year ago due to the acquisition of VBS and its subsequent acceleration which more than offset the impact of lower ARPU and lower lines in the consumer business.
VBS revenue grew 51% year-over-year and 18% sequentially to $23 million.
ARPU was $28.59 down from $28.86 sequentially and down from $29.06 in the prior year quarter.
The ARPU decline from the prior year quarter reflects the larger number of customers on lower priced plans including BasicTalk.
GAAP net income was $6 million or $0.03 per share up from $5 million or $0.02 per share sequentially.
This increase is a result of lower employee costs which tend to be higher in the first quarter.
GAAP net income was down from $7 million or $0.04 per share in the year ago quarter.
This reflects Vocalocity acquisition related amortization of intangibles of $3.8 million partially offset by the higher EBITDA.
Adjusted net income was $15 million or $0.07 per share up sequentially from $13 million and $0.06 per share and up from $12 million or $0.06 per share in the year ago quarter.
These changes are primarily driven by the adjusted EBITDA trends I noted.
The adjusted net income metric excludes the acquisition related items of intangibles amortization and adjusts for the fact that Vonage is not a material cash tax payer due to our over $700 million NOL.
Moving to slide six we continue to execute on structural cost reduction opportunities and to further reduce cost of telephony services or COTS.
COTS Decreased to $52 million from $53 million sequentially.
COTS decreased from $54 million a year ago despite the incremental termination volume from VBS which added several million dollars of cost in the second quarter.
The annual decline was due to lower termination in network costs led by a meaningful improvement in international long distance termination cost per line which declined by 15%.
COTS per line was $6.84 down from $6.88 sequentially from $7.60 in the second quarter of last year.
Selling general and administrative expense for the second quarter was $74 million.
This is down $5 million from the first quarter reflecting lower compensation and employee related expense just typically higher than the first quarter of each year and a positive swing from tax accruals and settlements.
SG&amp;A increased from $61 million in the prior year due to the addition of VBS SG&amp;A higher assisted selling expense and the expansion of Brazil related staff.
These factors were partially offset by a 7% improvement in consumer customer care cost per line reflecting continued improvements in care metrics including contact rate which declined by 8% and average handle time which improved by 6% versus a year ago.
Marketing expense was $59 million up from $57 million sequentially $58 million a year ago both reflecting VBS marketing expense.
Subscriber line acquisition cost or SLAC increased to $342 up from $299 sequentially decreased from $375 a year ago.
SLAC increased sequentially due to lower gross subscriber line additions and consumer on essentially flat marketing.
SLAC improved from a year ago due to lower marketing expense in consumer and lower SLAC attributable to VBS.
Turning to slide seven gross line additions or GLAs were 172 000 down from 191 000 sequentially and up from 155 000 in the prior year's quarter.
Significantly VBS grew accounts the 34.000 up 15% sequentially and 65% from the prior year.
Consolidated customer churn was 2.6% but sequentially and up from 2.4% year-over-year.
The actual number of churned account was better or down sequentially.
VBS churn increased to 1.9% for the quarter from 1.6% sequentially and will tend to fluctuate given the relative size of its account base.
SLAC overall churn combined with lower overall gross line additions resulted in negative 7 000 net lines in the second quarter.
I'll now move to a discussion of CapEx cash flow and the balance sheet on slide eight.
For the quarter CapEx including the acquisition and development of software assets was $6 million up from 4 million sequentially and down from 8 million in a year ago quarter.
The adjusted EBITDA minus CapEx calculation yield $23 million reflecting the substantial cash flow generation capacity of our business.
Free cash flow was $18 million up from $6 million sequentially in seasonally low first quarter due primarily to changes in working capital from the timing of payments that was up from $11 million in the year ago quarter driven primarily by higher EBITDA and lower CapEx.
We continued our balanced approach to capital allocation in the quarter repurchasing 3.5 million shares for $13 million this is $3 million more than in the first quarter as we took advantage of stock price softness during the quarter.
At the end of the second quarter we had $26 million left on our current $100 million share repurchase authorization which runs through the end of 2014.
We intend to continue execute on this authorization.
Since beginning our first buyback program in August 2012 we have repurchased 37 million shares for $107 million at an accretive average price of $2.87 per share.
Cash and cash equivalents as of June 30 were $58 million including 3 million in restricted cash and net debt was $47 million.
We ended the quarter with a strong balance sheet reflected in net debt to adjusted EBITDA of under 0.5 times.
As Marc noted we have received commitments from all of our current lenders led by JP Morgan and additional institutions for a new expanded $225 million credit facility composed of a $100 million term loan and $125 million revolved credit facility.
We expect this loan to close in the next several weeks.
Terms of the new credit facility are equal to or better than our existing facility on every metric including a four year maturity versus three today tighter spread resulting in an all in coupon of less than 3.5% at current LIBOR less restricted covenants slower amortization schedule and 55% larger size which is more weighted towards a flexible and low carrying cost revolver.
This loan rolls our current $90 million of outstanding term and revolving debt into a term loan add some cash and lease the revolver untapped.
This revolver combined with cash on hand is a strong financial capacity and strategic flexibility.
We were a disciplined acquirer of Vocalocity and intend to use that same approach as we consider other M&amp;A alternatives.
Now that we are halfway through the year we are in a position to update our revenue outlook for 2014.
We expect revenue growth for 2014 to be in the 5% area on a GAAP basis.
This equates to pro forma apples to apples growth in the 0 to negative 2% range.
While overall revenues will be up substantially year-over-year on a GAAP basis this is modestly below the target we set at the start of the year.
This is due to four factors that I have been referenced on this call.
One the effects of lower than projected GLAs in the first half due to media environment inventory and seasonality.
Two the actions we are taking to optimize the assisted sales channel which we believe will have a positive long-term effect in the profitability of our consumer customer base.
Three timing differences in the deployment of basic talk to additional distribution doors was materially more doors than originally projected but weighted later in the year than originally expected.
And fourth marketing and timing differences in Brazil.
We were off the air during the World Cup and are deploying in Sao Paulo and Rio on a phased basis as opposed to launching them simultaneously.
We expect VBS to continue to grow at approximately its current 50% year-over-year pace for the remainder of 2014.
Regarding EBITDA.
With two straight quarters and $29 million of EBITDA behind us we expect to exceed the expectations discussed at the beginning of the year.
In that call we referenced the variability of EBITDA throughout the year and we will see that in the second half as we digest the GLA effects of the first half and take a success based approach to Brazil marketing spend and additional growth initiatives at VBS.
A resulting EBITDA outlook for the year is in the area of $106 million to $112 million.
Summary cash flow generation capacity of our consumer business remains high.
And we’ve made strong progress simulating Vocalocity into our business and are pleased with the synergies already realized.
Our confidence in the opportunity in the rapidly growing SMB market has only strengthened and we will continue to grow this critical component of our business.
We remain focused on revenue growth.
Planned to continue to discipline of improving our cost structure and the return of capital to shareholders.
Thank you for your support to Vonage.
I will now initiate the Q&amp;A session.
Operator?  Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of George Sutton from Craig-Hallum.
Thank you.
I wondered if you could give us some more detail on the data you were receiving that ultimately resulted in the decision on the face-to-face selling side to reduce that just on a relative basis and at what point would you expect to have that show up in terms of the better customer metrics that you talked about?  Hi George it's Marc.
I will take that.
So the source the data we've now been able to integrate individual sales team information into our warehouses from our third-party outsource providers of those assisted sales channels.
So we're actually able to track individual sales and customer life acquired by individual sales agents as well as the location and the individual stores in which they did their initial sales.
From that we're able to actually track the behavior of those customers including returns for their life churn longevity those that actually do those things like spending so cancelling and then coming back into front or elsewhere and we can track that behavior and set specific metrics for individual teams.
And as you would expect you see certain pockets of that we've expanded to many hundreds of people in these assisted sales channels and given the rate and ramp that we have built as that channel this is necessary pruning.
So we have limited roughly 10% of the total hours among that group so not an insignificant impact we started doing that in the middle of the second quarter and in terms of when we expect to see that benefit the long-term impact you will see is improve churn.
You would expect to see that over a four to nine month period kind of equating to when you would see early life churn occur.
And we expect that we'll redeploy those dollars and ads over the coming same period of time prior the next six months to bring that staffing level back up to the levels we had previously.
So think about the six to nine months fixit program.
And just to be clear as this goes down to an individual level to a store level or regional level I mean what sort of changes you made?  Store and individual.
Okay.
And then my second question related to Brazil.
You mentioned you had achieved most of your milestones before you pulled off the year during the World Cup.
What do you mean by that what kind of milestones did you set for yourself? So as you are probably aware we’ve built a complete new operating platform which includes all the call processing OSS BSS as well as all of our platforms for e-commerce linked to external distribution.
We now have our service capability so the ability to actually make and receive calls to actually have entire footprint covering almost 9 million households in Southeast Brazil is now up scaled and tested.
Our billing system third-party partner was successfully deployed and we completed multiple real billing cycles with live customers.
The cloud based networks completing calls the intelligent routing so that has been completed and tested our care and sales centers are meeting all of our operational KPIs everything from abandon rates and call handle times and we're scaling those systems.
So those are some of the kinds of things that you have to test and you bring up a complete new platform.
In addition the actual functionality the product itself so the ability to new partners to deliver domestic and international service inbound calls outbound calls everything working over VoIP as expected and then all of the actual product feature themselves including our abilities to important numbers the ability to use Boleto payments which is an unusual and unique to Brazil form of payment.
All those things were important milestones that we wanted to make sure that we kicked the tires on in full production in those two markets.
And then obviously it gave us the opportunity to test our sales and marketing activities and we've been able to see what's working what's not and optimize those before going into Sao Paulo.
Okay great.
If I could sneak one more and the cost per line internationally came down quite a bit.
Is that a newly negotiated reduction or is that what we've talked about in prior quarters?  That’s what we have talked about in prior quarter that still falls primarily under the Tata contract that we have and as we’ve talked about we’ve had some benefits from currency as well as most favored nation status that we get from that contract.
Okay perfect.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Burns from Sidoti.
Good morning.
You mentioned adding some I guess value added services to BasicTalk.
I know magicJack is making a push with mobile integration.
Can you just give us some more color on what those services are that you're referring to that you might be adding to BasicTalk over the next 12 months?  Hey Greg it’s Marc.
I would love to give you more detail but candidly given the competitive nature of the products and the obvious direct competition with magicJack I am going to decline on that one.
But you have seen what we do in Vonage.
Obviously as the premium to discount brand dual brand strategy you expect to see a lot of the things on your core premium brand first and those things as well as enhancement for the lower discounted product will find the way in the BasicTalk.
And it will include a range of features as well as mobile capabilities down the road.
So beyond that I am just not comfortable sharing that publicly.
Okay.
And back to Brazil it sounded like a lot of operational milestones but is there any kind of metrics or indication that you're getting in terms of subscriber adoption or is it too early to gauge that?  It’s still pretty early to be able to gauge that.
We obviously had metrics to be able to understand what percentage of the addressable market in those markets we’re reaching.
We look at advertising awareness which quickly got to double-digits.
So but it’s still too early and just 4 to 6 week initial launch to draw any large conclusion.
We were able to understand some of the channels we're looking at so some other retail kiosk capabilities that we were testing in small scale did not deliver the yield that we wanted.
We of thought that was 50-50 proposition; so we're not going to scale that.
We found that there was additional distribution opportunities but folks who already have broadband customers as direct consumer relationships and realize that there is a good opportunity for us to accelerate are thinking of deals for third-party distributors.
And we also saw significant early demand from SOHO customers and possibly even small medium business customers that we're going to work to pursue in the coming months.
But still difficult until we get through the Sao Paulo launch and get the next slide of television and promotion in those initial markets before being able to draw any conclusions about the overall subscriber adoption.
Okay thanks.
And then just lastly on the direct sales pruning are you going to be redeploying any cost-savings there to other channels or is it just going to be put back into that channel as you kind of build up your staffing going forward? In the short-term we expect we'll probably see some benefits there; if we can opportunistically invest and get a good return we will.
Our expectation though is we do see a large portion of this channel that can be very profitable for us.
And we'd like to be able to redeploy those dollars over an extended period of time to bring staffing back up to its prior levels.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rollins from Citi Investment Research.
Hi thanks for taking the questions.
Two questions if I could.
First question is I was wondering if you can give a more specific breakdown of the subscriber lines by Vonage Business versus your consumer segment so we can understand a little bit more of the nuance in the change on maybe gross subscriber line additions as well as the ending subscriber lines.
And then secondly if we just take a step back what is the risk that there is fatigue in the home replacement category for phone service? And not just for you guys but for the category.
And that's a possible explanation for some of the challenges recently in trying to stabilize or improve the consumer segment even while you're introducing new more attractively priced products.
Thanks.
Hey Mike this is Marc.
Let me take the second one first and then I’ll turn to Dave to comment on subscriber lines.
So I think it’s important to understand within our consumer business there is really three sub-segments international premium domestic which is the $26 $27 retail price with taxes your total bill is going to be in the low 30s and then your BasicTalk product which has been as coming in just over $10 all-in monthly expense.
We continue to see growth in the international long distance segment.
We continue to see demand and we’re seeing the need particularly in Hispanic segment to continue to drive that not only the flat rate unlimited sometimes the out of pocket cost is a bit of barrier so we’re experimenting obviously with lower access price points as well as moving into markets like the cash pay market with calling card.
We do see additional opportunity in the U.S.
for that business.
And we are seeing is on BasicTalk we continue to grow so in our last quarter we’re going to that business and it continues to ramp but lower ARPU it’s not going to drive revenue as quickly as something that has got revenue of two to three times on a monthly basis.
And we’re still seeing 40% plus of those are buying BasicTalk did not have home phone service before so they were cord cutters.
So we are seeing people come back for a range of reasons including everything from one in just the security of a phone in house next to a spouse’s bedside table to having extension phones for extended family call then like multiple people to be able to listen to the same line battery life as well as some of the issues around 911 and security that come along with traditional home phone service.
So we're still quite bullish about the adoption rate on BasicTalk and the opportunity if we can put in front of customers in a cost effective way.
We think that that can scale well.
So we're very excited about the opportunity with the additional distribution hopefully we can build awareness through our media and television to drive traffic there.
But your point is very salient relative to that large and quite frankly profitable domestic premium customer base but it’s kind of the legacy home phone service.
That business has been shrinking and that has been challenging.
We think we do a good job in managing the churn profile of those customers we engage with those customers regular base with a lot of features to the services that have kept churn of tenured customers relatively flat but acquiring new customers is certainly been challenging to do it cost effectively.
And if you look at the macro market it's not a surprise you see and you know better than I high single-digit and higher for some carriers reduction in actual deployed home phone service on traditional pass lines.
So that shrinking the market is certainly a headwind.
But it is a tremendously profitable business that we think has a very long tail.
And if we manage that customer base well and overtime as over a number of years some of those will churn we expect to pick them up and move then into other expanded services.
The other point that I make this is why mobile integration is so incredibly important.
We got a fair bit of research to understand the appeal of being able to have home phone service with a cordless extension in the home is just yet one more connected device and being able to have a single number the reaches as you and all of the family and rings on those multiple extensions all your mobile phones and your iPads actually partition your mobile phone if you would you've got a personal number in your carrier number and then an application that allow you to have other identities is been very compelling.
And as I mentioned we expect in the near-term to be expanding a product like that and that will be up significant value to existing customers if you're in domestic services that want to be able to have that extended capability in their homes to make and receive calls and still know where the original calling party.
So it's a very fair question it certainly an issue but that's not related similar to the issues be faced over the last five to eight years.
Mike excuse me on the second part of your question regarding parsing line a bit.
So if you look at our negative 7 000 net lines that without and you can do the math based on table two the earnings release that splits out of a positive 23 000 net lines of VBS and the negative 30 000 net lines in consumer.
We talked about the fact that churn on an actual number of lines basis was better this quarter.
So really what led to that negative net lines and consumer is really the shortfall in GLAs that Marc referenced.
Thanks very much for the detail.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Latimore from Northland Capital.
Great thank you.
Just on the VBS.
I think you referred account churn there if you were to report revenue churn would it be better or worse than your account churn number? Yes.
That’s not a metric that we’re using and I know it’s a bit of the wild west in test space right now.
We have got different companies do it and whether they report churn at all.
We do it on a very conservative basis looking at the entire quarter using the same definition that we do for our consumer business.
But we don’t track revenue churn the way you are asking.
And then on the Vonage Business you have some redirects of customers from the Vonage site.
Can you give us some sense of how much sort of new recurring revenue comes from that channel?  Sure it’s valuable and it’s worth more than it was worth to us in our consumer business.
We talked about a higher close rate and higher ARPU.
That being said that’s not what’s driving the acceleration in revenue; it’s actually in terms of the overall revenue base it’s fairly immaterial.
It will actually become more and more material over time but it’s not having much of an effect on the comparable growth rate.
You can probably think about it as something in the low double-digit it’s probably not more than about 10% for the incremental acceleration in growth.
Okay great.
And then I think earlier in there you talked about maybe some white label opportunities for your VBS division maybe any additional color around that?  As I mentioned earlier we have made some improvements in the mobile platform that allow us to be third party ready.
We are not at this time ready to announce anything specifically but stay tuned.
Okay.
And then I know the focus of VBS tends to be on the smaller business segments but any sense of what your largest customer is in the VBS right now?  We haven’t shared specific customer sizing and I don’t think that an individual customer deployment would be terribly useful information to draw any long-term conclusions on.
We said before and consistently we are focused on the under 20 market for now and that is the place where we are seeing virtually all of our gains.
We do have some deployments that are larger than that but since they are not representative I don't think it probably does us any service to get into details.
Alright.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Catharine Trebnik from Dougherty &amp; Company.
Hello? Hi Catharine.
Okay good.
Sorry I wasn't sure if I got to the queue.
My question has to do with Brazil and Canada.
And can you discuss your expansion plans? I understand you saying during the call that you want to be balanced in your approach but I do see with VBS growing at 50% year-over-year what your expansion plans are for revenue opportunity? Thanks.
Thanks Catharine.
We continue to invest in VBS and we think that we've got capacity to invest can grow as much as we can actually scale and take advantage of new opportunities.
So we are not in any way putting on any kind of brakes on VBS opportunities for growth.
So I want to make sure that's completely clear.
Relative to Brazil obviously the Brazil environment is -- can be difficult to operate in there is plenty of risks so we're taking a pretty measured and milestone driven approach to how we deploy the investment.
First and foremost was building a platform that is robust that meets all the needs of our customers and that was much of the work over the last 12 months since announcing the joint venture.
As we deploy we again have plenty of investment capacity.
The guidance we have given incorporates a roll out that would get us through all of our addressable market through the end of this year.
And we believe the substantial sales and marketing investment to be able to measure and drive growth.
If in fact we saw better than expected results then we want to turn up the heat.
We would certainly be able to provide additional sales and marketing investment I don’t think that we would make those decisions before the next quarterly earnings call so you will have an opportunity to understand if we’re going to increase or investment pace.
But currently we feel pretty good about what’s in our current EBITDA outlook and if that accommodates our continued expansion into Sao Paulo and then pending success there and move to Rio and then we’d fill out the balance of our footprint weeks after that.
Okay and then the follow-on question is the consumer business is obviously somewhat of a drag so not that it isn’t and as you said the international and I understand going after segmentation like the Hispanic market.
But one thing are you looking at other smaller acquisitions to drive you’re the business segment with some of the cash you have? Is that one idea that we could think about in terms of use of cash and in terms of helping the growth? Dave you want to take that? Yes sure.
So Catherine just talk about our new bank loan which has significantly sized revolver that’s unused as well as the success of the Vocalocity acquisition.
So yes I think most of the M&amp;A opportunities the more compelling ones we’re seeing tend to be in the SMB space and then we’re very happy with the platform we have.
The main goal is to grow VBS as quickly as possible organically.
But we think there may also be more there and the ability to buy some things that it will take some time to build.
That would include expanding the addressable market products that expand the customer set we are selling more to current customers.
There tends to be a number of opportunities in each of those out there.
All right thanks catch the rest on your post call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
I would like to thank everyone for attending the conference call.
And you may now log off or disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Vonage Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder today’s conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Hunter Blankenbaker Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Jamie and good morning everyone and welcome to our third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Speaking on our call this morning will be Marc Lefar Chief Executive Officer; Dave Pearson CFO; and Alan Masarek Vonage's CEO effective tomorrow.
Also joining us are Joe Redling President Consumer Services; Wain Kellum President Vonage Business Solutions; and Clark Peterson CEO of Telesphere.
Marc will discuss the Company’s acquisition of Telesphere and third quarter results and Dave will provide a more detailed view of the Telesphere acquisition and our third quarter financial results.
Slides that accompany today’s discussion are available on the IR Web-site.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks we’ll be happy to take your questions.
As referenced on Slide 2 I would like to remind everyone that statements made during this call may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These and all forward-looking statements are based on management’s expectations and depend on assumptions that may be incorrect or imprecise.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
More information about those risks and uncertainties is highlighted on the second page of the slides and contained in our SEC filings.
We caution listeners not to rely unduly on these statements and disclaim any intent or obligation to update them.
During this call we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to GAAP is available on the IR Web-site.
With that I'll turn the call over to Marc.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
It's an exciting time at Vonage and I'm pleased to be with you today to discuss our third quarter results and a transformational acquisition of Telesphere which we announced earlier this morning.
Before I begin I'd like to introduce Alan Masarek who's on the call with us today.
Alan officially takes over CEO tomorrow but has been with us as a special advisor over the last three weeks as we assessed and finalised the Telesphere transaction.
He brings more than 20 years of C-Level experience at technology-centric companies.
Alan joins us from Google to which he sold his prior company Quickoffice one of the world's most widely recognised mobile brands.
He has built several successful companies demonstrating great vision and strong execution skills along the way an innovator with deep experience in mobile SMB and consumer sectors we're delighted to welcome him as the new Chief Executive of the Company.
Alan welcome.
Thank you very much Marc.
Turning to Slide 4 let's now move to the acquisition of Telesphere a leading provider of unified communications as a service.
This transaction accelerates Vonage's evolution into a leading company in the rapidly growing cloud communication sector and reflects the continued execution of our long-term growth strategy.
Upon closing the combined 2014 pro forma revenues of Vonage Business Solutions Telesphere and our existing small business customers will comprise approximately 18% of total revenue and if independent will be the second largest pure-play UCaaS provider surpassing 8x8.
We believe that our higher growth rate completeness of offering and exceptional cost structure position us well to gain market share while generating strong returns for our investors.
As we demonstrated with Vocalocity the use of Vonage's scale brand balance sheet and cash generation to invest in the acquisition of complementary growth businesses has been successful by any measure.
One year after the acquisition of Vocalocity we have far exceeded all of our original performance expectations.
We have realized and reinvested cost synergies that along with the Vonage brand have accelerated revenue growth from 38% to 52%.
We're confident in our ability to accelerate growth at Telesphere as we bring it under the Vonage umbrella.
This acquisition immediately moves the Company into a considerably larger SMB and enterprise market generally requiring quality of service management service level agreements and carrier-grade feature sets matching those provided by on-premise PBX vendors.
While large business solutions has demonstrated exceptional growth for customers who generally use the public Internet Telesphere expands our addressable market to serve customers requiring greater security and guaranteed service levels.
Our addressable market is well north of $15 billion in North America and these segments all offer highly attractive customer economics.
With Telesphere as part of the Vonage family we will now be able to provide a comprehensive and compelling range of cloud-based solutions to address the needs of a wide range of enterprises.
Moving on to Slide 5 I'd like to provide more detail on Telesphere which Vonage is acquiring for $114 million.
Telesphere's 2014 revenues are expected to be approximately $40 million with more than $50 million of revenue already under contract for 2015.
Given the large backlog and strong current demand for their services we are paying a multiple that is 2x or less estimated 2015 revenues.
This compares quite favorably to other public UCaaS companies that are trading at roughly 3x 2015 revenues.
Slide 6; since 2006 Telesphere has provided cloud communications and virtual PBX solutions with a focus on distributed enterprises meaning those with multiple locations.
The average monthly recurring revenue per customer is nearly $3 000 the average seat size is more than 40 and revenue churn has been less than 1% over the past year.
50% of the company's revenues come from customers with more than 100 seats and Telesphere's top 50 customers average more than 375 seats across an average of 19 locations.
Roughly 95% of new Telesphere customers sign longer-term contracts generally three years resulting in higher recurring revenue lower churn and very strong customer lifetime values.
Moving to Slide 7 and 8 Telesphere utilizes proprietary apps and tools built on top of BroadSoft's unified communications platform to create a differentiated customer solution.
In addition the company has developed its own comprehensive provisioning and feature management tool called Zeus that enables the rapid deployment of solutions directly by Telesphere and channel partners as well as the ability for end-users to manage their services online.
We believe that Zeus is a significant product differentiator sales tool and strategic asset.
The businesses served by Telesphere generally require higher levels of security and call quality SLAs.
They also tend to purchase a broader suite of UCaaS features such as Lync integration multipoint HD videoconferencing mobile office and collaboration tools than do the generally smaller customers addressed by 8x8 and RingCentral.
To help meet these needs Telesphere bundles their cloud services with MPLS broadband.
MPLS is a critical component of the offering for larger multi-location enterprises.
Frost &amp; Sullivan estimates that 50% of the larger SMBs deploying UCaaS solutions will require MPLS not only for voice but for other SaaS needs as well.
Offering MPLS over its own nationwide network enables Telesphere to capture greater wallet share strengthens the customer relationship and increases the growth opportunities within the existing base.
Telesphere's sell-through channel partners account for roughly two-thirds of year-to-date sales as well as the direct sales force.
The provisioning and customer management tools provided by Zeus are key enablers of Telesphere's channel success.
In addition Telesphere has been recognized for its strong technical and operational experience ranking as a top provider in Gartner's Magic Quadrant for UCaaS.
Lastly we're pleased to welcome Telesphere's employees led by Chief Executive Clark Peterson who will join us as President of Telesphere a Vonage company.
Clark is an industry veteran and Founder and Chairman of the Cloud Communication Alliance.
He leads an experienced management team with a deep edge.
Sanjay Srinivasan Telesphere's CTO lead the strong engineering and product development team and serves as chairman of the peering committee of the Cloud Communication Alliance.
We're pleased to welcome the entire Telesphere team to the Vonage family.
On Slide 9 let me now move on to the current quarter discussion.
During the quarter we continued to balance our efforts to invest in growth while optimizing our operations to improve the margins and cash flow of the core business.
As a result consolidated adjusted EBITDA improved to $30 million the highest in six quarters while consolidated GAAP revenue increased 5% year-over-year.
The revenue improvement was driven by a 52% year-over-year increase in revenue in Vonage Business Solutions to $24.4 million.
Let's take a few minutes to talk a bit more in detail about the progress at VBS.
Since the acquisition of VBS one year ago our teams have worked well to deliver consistently exceptional performance.
The most recent results reflect the strong and growing demand for cloud-based communication services in the SMB market and our ability to execute at leadership levels of growth.
During the quarter we continued investing in our sales infrastructure focusing on three areas; growing the direct sales force expanding the reseller network and building out a platform strategy.
The majority of the investment has been focused on growing the direct sales team resulting in a 48% year-to-date increase in staffing.
We have also invested in training and infrastructure to create an organization and tools that can efficiently add highly productive new team members quickly.
We are confident these investments provide the foundation to support continued strong growth.
We also expanded the reseller program by adding new senior management as well as four national master agents representing 7 000 sub-agents.
We've seen improved traction in this channel and will continue to build the support team to ensure our partner's success.
Lastly we continue to invest in the expansion of the VBS platform which enables companies to use Vonage's cloud communication services on their desktops and mobile devices.
During the quarter we announced the joint solution with Dell Software to help companies transition from traditional telecom services to Internet-based communications.
The Dell Business Phone powered by Vonage Business Solutions is a wireless carrier agnostic service for any size enterprise.
This offering allows companies to capitalize on the growing trend of BYOD bring your own device in a secure and easy to deploy manner.
Vonage Business Solutions' dramatic growth combined with the acquisition of Telesphere places us clearly at the forefront of cloud communication services and dramatically expands our addressable market.
Moving onto Consumer Services we continue to focus on maximizing customer lifetime value by allocating marketing spend to areas that provide the highest return.
Consumer Services gross line additions were intentionally managed down this quarter as we continue to optimize the assisted selling channel.
The assisted selling channel as you'll recall utilizes direct face-to-face selling across multiple retail chains and community and event venues.
The investment in this channel has been reduced to support only those locations that generate strong returns as measured by customer LTV.
Although this effort has purposely reduced gross line additions in the short-term it is improving the quality of customers we acquire while driving lower churn increased profitability and ultimately revenue.
We also continue to improve our products in ways that increase the core value delivered to consumers.
For example in October we launched mobile inbound calling capabilities.
This allows customers and their families to take their full Vonage service with them on their mobile phones enabling them to receive a call made to the home number on the home phone and the multiple mobile devices concurrently while still being able to view the original calling party's ID.
In this way the home phone continues to represent a family identity in the mobile environment.
Let's take a moment to highlight the importance here.
While many have predicted the demise of home landlines in favor of mobile phones there are still 79 million home landline subscribers in North America and that number has remained relatively flat for the past few years.
It's important to note that one's home phone number is one of the last vestiges of the family identity.
Our ability to connect the user's family identity their home phone number to a user's individual identity their cell number is powerful.
It supports our ongoing strategy to provide broad communication services including text messaging video calling and group messaging wherever and whatever broadband connected device the customer wants to use.
We're now working toward extending this utility to additional devices including tablets as part of the core service with Vonage Extensions.
Initial response to our mobile inbound calling feature has been very encouraging.
To-date 70% of our eligible Vonage Extensions users have upgraded to the enhanced mobile service and new customers are registering their mobile numbers at time of purchase at the same rate indicating a high level of awareness and understanding of the new feature set.
We also expanded the feature set of the standalone Vonage Mobile App with the addition of group messaging which can be used on the iPad in addition to smartphones.
Ongoing enhancements to the Vonage Mobile App reinforce our commitment to extend mobile services across the entire business leveraging our technology to give customers comprehensive and flexible communications.
To that end we recently hired Pablo Calamera a veteran of Apple as our new Chief Technology Officer.
Pablo has a deep background in software development and management covering a broad spectrum of areas including software communications systems architecture mobility and Internet clients and services.
He's an accomplished technologist that will drive our mission of developing innovative products across all of our businesses.
In addition to increasing the value of our core service we have also redesigned the Vonage online experience.
The new site improves the learning and buying process to drive better sales conversion.
Early indications are positive with consistent improvement in flow and sales conversion increasing nearly 20% versus the legacy site.
While early initial results are encouraging and will drive improvements in marketing efficiency as we continue to expand investments in digital customer acquisition.
On BasicTalk we completed our retail expansion to additional national partners as planned including CVS/pharmacy.
Now that we have an established brand with distribution scale of 19 000 doors we'll begin to shift our marketing investment from brand building mass media to channel specific direct marketing vehicles supporting our retail and online channels.
The result will be a reduction in acquisition cost per subscriber and increased overall profitability.
During the quarter we enhanced the BasicTalk product with new privacy features including do not disturb anonymous call block and caller ID block and we refreshed our merchandising and packaging to market these new features further differentiating BasicTalk in the low-priced domestic calling market.
In summary we continue to improve marketing efficiency to drive the profitability of the Consumer business.
Now that we've seen a full quarter of impact from the actions in the assisted selling channel and we completed the BasicTalk retail expansion and product update we expect stabilization in consumer gross line additions and improvement in churn moving forward.
Both now turned international we'll comment on our U.K.
and Brazil operations.
The U.K.
that we've been operating since 2005 produced record revenue in the third quarter.
The strong performance was driven by higher gross line additions in the SoHo and SMB segments as well as targeted price increases across several services.
In Brazil we expanded into Sao Paulo with the TV and digital campaign following the initial market test in two smaller cities Curitiba and Brasilia.
Combined these three cities represent approximately 45% of our addressable market.
Results to date have not met expectations.
During the expansion of Sao Paulo we concluded that mass-market television was simply not generating a financially acceptable response and we've since migrated to a digital only media campaign.
In addition we enhanced our service pricing to call mobile phones and we've added Small Business Plans.
In addition we have recently implemented a partner program to distribute service to the broadband customers of ISPs as well as through online service companies including PayPal which is also a new billing option on our site.
We will evaluate the performance of these new channels over the next few months as we continue to take a disciplined low cost approach to our investment.
In summary we had a solid quarter fueled by industry-leading revenue growth at VBS and strong adjusted EBITDA on the Consumer business the highest in six quarters.
Vonage's cash flows continue to enable us to invest in profitable growth while returning value to shareholders.
The Company is well-positioned as we look towards 2015 and the acquisition of Telesphere puts Vonage in a market-leading position in the fast-growing unified communications as a service marketplace.
In closing I want to thank many of you on this call for the support you've shown Vonage and for me personally during the past 6.5 years.
I'm proud of the financial turnaround and the strategic repositioning of the business designed and executed by the many talented employees here at Vonage.
It has been my privilege to work with you.
Vonage is financially strong with great opportunities for growth I believe the acquisition of Telesphere will further cement our leadership role in the growing UCaaS market and I have great confidence in Alan and his terrific team.
I look forward to the continued success of the Company and I'll now turn the call over to Dave to discuss the third quarter and the Telesphere acquisition in more detail.
Thanks Marc and good morning everyone.
On behalf of the entire management team I would like to begin by thanking Marc for his 6.5 years of exemplary service to Vonage.
He is leaving the Company in a strong position and has set up this team for success.
With that I'm pleased to provide additional details on the Telesphere acquisition as well as discuss our third quarter financial results.
Starting on Page 10 as Marc referenced Vonage is paying a total of $114 million to acquire Telesphere.
This value represents a 2015 revenue multiple of 2x or less relative to our closest cloud peers who were trading at around 3x revenue on the same 2015 basis.
We believe that Telesphere which is modestly EBITDA positive is already on track to grow revenue at a faster rate than these comparables in 2015 prior to any benefits of Vonage ownership.
And we believe that Telesphere can grow faster within Vonage just as Vocalocity's already rapid growth accelerated after the acquisition.
Telesphere customers sign-up to multiyear contracts and the company has more than $50 million of revenue already under contract for 2015.
Furthermore as we did with Vocalocity we expect to achieve annual operational synergies through scale and technology beginning in the first year after close.
These synergies are expected to be realized in similar areas to Vocalocity including cost of telephony services which includes termination and E-911 shipping and G&amp;A which is primarily financial and other shared systems and services.
Under the agreement Telesphere shareholders will receive $91 million in cash and 6.86 million shares of Vonage common stock equating to $23 million.
Stock consideration represents approximately 3% of outstanding shares.
These shares are restricted under Rule 144 and therefore cannot be sold or transferred for six months.
Vonage is financing the cash consideration through the combination of a portion of cash on the balance sheet and a portion of our $125 million revolving credit facility.
On close Vonage will have net leverage of 1.2x EBITDA.
This capital structure will enable us to continue to execute on our balanced approach to capital allocation including completion of our $100 million share repurchase program by the end of the year and the ability to pursue further organic and inorganic growth.
This transaction has been unanimously approved by the Boards of Directors of Vonage and Telesphere and we expect to close by the end of the year subject to customary closing conditions.
I will now discuss results for the third quarter.
Beginning on Slide 11 adjusted EBITDA was $30 million up $1 million sequentially from $29 million and up $7 million from $23 million in the year ago quarter.
This result reflects the strong cash flow generation capacity of our Consumer business.
The primary drivers of the change in EBITDA were a reduction in sales and marketing expense which I will discuss in more detail in a moment and lower cost of telephony services or COTS offset by lower consumer revenues.
As we have discussed previously we continue to operate VBS around EBITDA breakeven for the year so that fluctuates from quarter to quarter.
Moving to Slide 12 revenue was $215 million down $4 million sequentially due to lower Vonage consumer revenue and lower USF which is a pass-through and accounted for $2 million of the decline partially offset by higher VBS revenue.
Revenue increased 5% from $204 million a year ago due to the acquisition of VBS and its subsequent revenue growth to more than offset the impact of lower ARPU and lower lines in the consumer business.
VBS grew 52% year-over-year and 8% sequentially to $24.4 million.
ARPU was $28.19 down from $28.59 sequentially and down from $28.87 in the prior year quarter.
Consistent with revenue the ARPU declines also reflect the larger number of customers on lower priced plans including BasicTalk as well as lower USF fees.
GAAP net income was $5 million or $0.02 per share down from $6 million or $0.03 per share sequentially.
GAAP net income was up from $4 million or $0.02 per share in the year ago quarter.
Adjusted net income was $14 million or $0.07 per share down sequentially from $15 million and $0.07 per share and up from $9 million or $0.04 per share in the year ago quarter.
The sequential decline was driven by lower stock option comp in the second quarter which normalized in the third quarter and the year-over-year increase was driven by higher EBITDA.
The adjusted net income metric excludes the acquisition related items of intangibles amortization and adjusts for the fact that Vonage is not a material cash tax payer due to our over $700 million NOL.
Moving to Slide 13 we continue to execute on structural cost reduction opportunities to further reduce COTS.
COTS decreased to $50 million from $52 million sequentially and from $53 million in the year ago quarter which excludes VBS.
This year-over-year decline occurred despite the incremental termination volume from VBS in the third quarter of 2014 which added several million dollars of costs.
The year-over-year decline was due to lower termination but by a meaningful improvement in international long distance termination cost per line which declined by 12%.
COTS per line was $6.54 down from $6.84 sequentially and down from $7.48 in the third quarter of last year.
Selling general and administrative expense for the third quarter was $73 million.
This is down $1 million from the second quarter reflecting lower compensation and employee related expense offset by an increase in tax accruals and settlements.
SG&amp;A increased some $65 million in the prior year quarter due to the addition of VBS SG&amp;A.
These factors were partially offset by a 17% improvement in consumer customer care cost per line reflecting continued improvements in key metrics including Contact Rate which declined by 9% and Average Handle Time which improved by 2% versus a year ago.
Marketing expense was $58 million down from $59 million on a sequential and year-over-year basis.
Parsing this number consumer sales and marketing was down in the quarter as we reduced expenses in lower performing channels consistent with our initiative to improve customer lifetime value and align marketing spend in GLAs.
Marketing and selling in VBS was up for the quarter as we saw substantial opportunity to add customers at attractive acquisition costs to continue building the telesales and indirect channels going into 2015.
Subscriber line acquisition cost or SLAC increased to $365 from $342 sequentially and from $339 a year ago.
Despite a slight decrease in marketing spend SLAC increased on a sequential and year-over-year basis due to lower gross subscriber line additions in consumer.
Turning to Slide 14 gross line additions or GLAs were 160 000 down from 172 000 sequentially and down from 175 000 in the prior year's quarter.
The lower GLAs reflect the full quarter of our efforts in the Consumer business to optimize spend.
We purposely moved away from elements of the assisted sales channel which we believe will have a positive long term effect on the profitability of our consumer business.
Consolidated customer churn was 2.7% up from 2.6% sequentially and year-over-year.
The actual number of churned accounts were lower sequentially or better and we expect the churn rate to come down as our actions in Consumer roll forward.
VBS churn increased to 2% for the quarter from 1.9% sequentially.
Customer account churn at VBS will tend to fluctuate given the relative size of its account base and increase due to early life churn and the presence of more small accounts.
VBS had a record quarter in terms of gross and net line additions.
Lower Consumer gross line additions resulted in negative 19 000 overall net lines for the third quarter.
We ended the quarter with 2.5 million average subscriber lines.
One item to note.
As we launched mobile inbound calling in October we executed a $1 price increase across Vonage World and U.S.
and Canada Unlimited plan.
At the same time we stopped charging for second line extensions.
Now customers get the full benefit of mobility across two free extensions.
The impact of this in the fourth quarter and future periods will be a reduction of approximately 79 000 subscriber lines and from a revenue perspective the price increase more than offsets the effect of not charging for second line extensions.
I'll now move to a discussion of CapEx cash flow and the balance sheet on Slide 15.
For the quarter CapEx including the acquisition and development of software assets was $7 million up from $6 million sequentially and up from $4 million in the year ago quarter.
The year-over-year increase was due to investment in our VBS business.
Adjusted EBITDA minus CapEx was $23 million reflecting the substantial cash flow generation capacity of our business.
Free cash flow was $21 million up from $18 million sequentially and up from $20 million in the year ago quarter driven by higher EBITDA.
We continued our balanced approach to capital allocation in the quarter repurchasing 3.8 million shares for $13 million.
At the end of the third quarter we had $13 million left on our current $100 million share repurchase authorization which runs through the end of 2014.
Since beginning our first buyback program in August 2012 we have repurchased 41 million shares for $121 million at an accretive average price of $2.93 per share.
Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities as of September 30 was $67 million including $3 million in restricted cash and $5 million in marketable securities and net debt was $42 million.
We ended the quarter with a strong balance sheet reflected in net debt to adjusted EBITDA of 0.4x.
During the quarter we closed our new expanded $225 million credit facility composed of a $100 million term loan and a $125 million revolving credit facility.
Upon closing of the Telesphere acquisition we will have ample liquidity and the flexibility to execute on our strategy of growth both organic and inorganic in the unified communications as a service space.
Now moving on to guidance we are in a position to revise our EBITDA guidance.
With strong performance year-to-date and continued focus on improving our cost structure we expect to exceed the 2014 EBITDA outlook updated last quarter.
Based on our current run rate we now expect 2014 adjusted EBITDA to be in the $117 million to $119 million.
In closing we are excited about the future particularly with Telesphere and their strong team joining the Vonage family.
Cash flow generation of our consumer business remains high providing us the confidence to fund strategic growth initiatives and gain share in the high-growth communications as a service market.
We remain focused on revenue growth and compelling returns on investment from all of our businesses.
Thank you for your support to Vonage.
I will now turn it over to Hunter to initiate the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Dave.
Jamie can you initiate the call session Q&amp;A please?  (Operator Instructions) The first question comes from George Sutton from Craig-Hallum.
First a lot of welcome to Alan Clark and Hunter and thanks to Marc.
So my first question was for Wain and that is as we look at the strength that you're seeing in the SMB space we are seeing a lot of your competitors move away from the smaller account opportunities and you're having a lot of success there.
Can you discuss if that's a large part of why you're seeing the growth you are and are you able to break down growth from distribution versus the growth from productivity of the sales force? You got that Wain?  Yes I got it.
Thanks Marc.
For us consistent with what we said last quarter the majority of the market that we're going after is still on Extensions and then flexible legacy platforms.
So for the market that we sell to the majority of businesses are using old platforms that don't serve them well.
And so for us we continue to find new ways to put marketing and sales dollars to work both directly and indirectly to give selling opportunities and then in the selling opportunity our value proposition our price point and feature set puts us in a position where our close rate is extraordinarily high.
So without stopping short of telegraphing our sales and marketing tactic what we're doing is pretty straightforward which is just putting our way into explaining what we do to customers that are on legacy platforms and they are glad to migrate over.
Okay.
And my second and final question relates to this Telesphere integration.
It sounds like you're not going to be integrating the name or the Telesphere name will remain.
So just want to confirm that.
And then also can you discuss the network because I know Telesphere has quite a bit of POPs in data center in their annual number of data centers can you discuss that integration? So let's take that two pieces.
This is Marc.
Let me take the first one on brand and I'll let Clark talk about his network and what makes them unique.
From a branding standpoint as we described in the call we are going to at closing refer to it as Telesphere a Vonage company.
We've seen both at Vocalocity and in our research that the Vonage name although most folks still think about it as a consumer name it is quickly and easily extensible to business.
Folks are familiar with it have confidence in it and it has a quality impact to it.
We've seen that it has helped to drive digital traffic and searches to Vocalocity now Vonage Business Solutions and the team will be working post-closing and actually prior to closing with Alan and the new team to talk about what leverage we can get from the Vonage brand and at what course and speed we leverage that in our marking material.
So you'll see Vonage at the moment of closing and then the degree to which Vonage becomes the umbrella will be determined in the coming couple of months.
Clark you want to take the network question? Sure.
Thanks Marc.
And George appreciate the question.
I first – since you are the first question that I'm answering I would like to say on behalf of Telesphere we are very excited about this deal and feel that we are a powerful enabler in this industry to really create a leader in the UCaaS space and I think we will talk a little bit about that but this is a great day at Telesphere and I believe for Vonage as well.
As you mentioned we have 16 POPs throughout the country as our network and really that creates an MPLS network that enables us to provide not only QoS and guaranteed SLAs for these larger customers but also other cloud services and also data services for them.
So we utilize that network really as a facilitator for providing all of the full robust feature set of call communication services.
Thanks Clark.
Jamie can we have the next question please? The next question comes from Greg Burns from Sidoti &amp; Company.
Given that Telesphere is using like a BroadSoft core is there any plans to kind of unify the platforms onto maybe Vocalocity's platform? And then also what is the margin structure of Telesphere look like given that they are using a BroadSoft core and they do offer the MPLS? It's Marc.
So relative to the platform Alan and the technology teams from both companies will spend time over the next couple of months evaluating the wide range of what are the functions features capabilities of the platforms that have been built at both companies.
It's important to note that while the BroadSoft platform is the base-level communications module Telesphere is really differentiated by having created a lot of apps and tools sitting on top of that that radically extends the feature set they can deliver.
In addition some of their differentiating service comes from their OSS/BSS tool which as I mentioned was called Zeus and we've been extremely impressed with the capability that provides for provisioning for channel partners to access to sell to understand where they stand relative to what they've earned and for customers to be able to access and customize their feature set.
So it's really an impressive suite and array.
Those are things that are quite unique and do sit on top of that BroadSoft platform.
In the case of Vocalocity or VBS when it was built the proprietary platform absolutely made the most sense to build and continues to be one that is expanded upon.
At this point we expect to operate both platforms and we'll consider what additional technology integration needs to occur in the coming months into 2015 but there's no current plan and we don't have a need nor is the thesis for the acquisition in any way based on a technology integration.
Great.
Then I'll take the margin question.
So first of all as with Vocalocity we expect to be able to increase the margins through some of the synergy opportunities that we talked about.
Secondly the aspect of the Telesphere business that is their primary product which is the feature set built on top of BroadSoft and the call processing are some of the highest margins that we've seen in this space.
The MPLS which is really sold as a bundle and pulled along in that whole package is growing at a very high rate as we indicated with the 2x.
The MPLS gets pulled along it does have a lower margin and CaaS but overall we think the margin is quite compelling and we can add we believe over time pretty significant increase to that.
Okay.
And what percentage of the $40 million that Telesphere did this year or the $50 million that's booked is MPLS versus out of recurring service revenue for like the telephony component of the business? Again we sell it as a bundle and customers can choose to take it or not.
Almost all of them do.
And so having it together is a critical part of the product.
I would just say that the MPLS piece is materially less than half of the revenue.
Okay.
And in terms of the core consumer subscriber base Marc I think you mentioned you expect the churn to kind of improve and GLAs to at least stabilize.
What are you seeing I guess more recently or what trends are you seeing more recently that kind of give you confidence that you've hit the trough here with that consumer business? I mean we see stabilized gross line additions and we see lower churn.
So it was planned to actually expect GLAs to decline.
We've shut down investment in a number of channels and candidly what we found in some of these channels was we call spinners folks who were coming in the top for promotions who may stay for a couple of months then going right off the bottom again.
So as you drop GLAs or there's a lag time of several months you will see that that GLAs a good portion of it quickly becomes offset with lower customer attrition and that's the trend we're actually seeing.
We obviously started this process last quarter and now you have a full quarter of that impact.
So we think that we've seen that kind of pass through the system at this point.
Okay so the linearity through the quarter has improved the trajectory through the quarter you've seen improve? Yes.
Okay alright thank you.
Jamie can we have the next question please? The next question comes from Mike Latimore from Northland Capital.
This is Jim Fitzgerald tuning in for Mike Latimore.
So my first question is surrounding research and development for VBS.
What features or areas is that research and development really devoted to for VBS right now? This is Marc I'll just – I'll turn it to Wain but obviously for competitive reasons we're not going to spend too much time talking about the specifics.
Wain if you want to talk about the areas where you see emerging needs and the kind of customers and generally the feature sets that we're seeing increase in demand that would probably be most appropriate.
Sure.
Primarily it's in three buckets.
Customers expected more and more mobility so we continue to innovate in that area and have a huge advantage in that we can do that company-wide at Vonage instead of just one-sided VBS which is good for us.
We're growing like crazy so we continue to invest in capacity expansion and tools and that work fell well.
And then the third bucket is we continue to take our software spec and advance it allowing other companies to do innovative things and that's one of the things that we like about our Dell relationship.
Dell could have done business with anybody that they wanted to and they chose Vonage to be able to use our software and our infrastructure to be able to innovate and introduce that Dell's second line and that takes some work to do things to allow companies like Dell to use our software.
Okay great.
And then my second question can you give us an update on any incremental distribution channels you have for VBS? Go ahead Wain.
So we continue to expand out our distribution channel Dell being one example.
Marc mentioned in his scripted comments about VBS.
We also continue to see really good growth in channel partners that's telco resellers and we realize that they need to sell cloud because of the value proposition that earns.
So last quarter we signed four master agents which gave us thousands of sub-agents that are out repping the VBS platform.
So we think that will continue to scale nicely for this foreseeable future.
Thanks Wain.
Jamie can we have the next question please? The next question comes from Catharine Trebnick from Dougherty.
Congratulations to the new people and sorry Marc you're moving on.
So on Telesphere is that revenue more geographic to the southwest region or is it a more national footprint? Clark do you want to take that one? Sure.
We serve customers all over the United States.
Our network is national.
There's not a state or a city that we don't serve.
I think you'll see most of our growth is on the East Coast actually.
From the past our revenue where we started was more West-centric but almost all of our larger growth and larger customers especially as we've gone upmarket dramatically is coming from the East Coast.
So it's pretty much spreading across the country based on our legacy base and our current growth areas.
One of the things we found compelling when we kind of looked at the profile of the business was every place that Clark and his team has actually built distribution out they penetrate market share very quickly.
So the distribution of revenues that Clark is talking about really is followed where the investment sales force has been and that's why we think there's so much upside opportunity here the ability to provide some cash and support the teams to expand their channels we think can grow accelerate growth very very quickly based on their history.
Okay thanks.
And then also another question would be when you compete for customers who do you typically compete against 8x8 RingCentral Comcast AT&amp;T CenturyLink? That would help give me an idea of the landscape too.
Clark you got that? Sure.
We really compete for – and our type of customers are those that currently have on-prem PBXs so these are larger customers of the SMB market and most of the customers that we acquire are previously in the traditional mode of having an on-prem PBX and with the traditional [indiscernible] that type carrier and so we're really taking those customers from that legacy product and moving them to the cloud and it is those larger enterprises who we compete against.
And then the larger enterprises obviously have multiple branches and headquarters right? Correct yes.
And we've been very effective at both kind of top down as well as bottom up being able to sell headquarter companies with thousands of locations around the country as well as selling satellite offices that then that excitement about our robust feature set and our ability to have great disaster recovery and great connectivity and high quality services for them spreads up from those satellite offices to headquarters and been able to grow that way as well.
Alright.
And then just one Marc an update on how you're doing with the Dell relationship and how that's working both from a consumer and a business point of view? Wain do you want to just talk about briefly how the timing on sales from the time we deployed it? Yes.
Sure.
As you know we announced Dell at the CTIA Mobility Conference but the product was still being completed.
We are near completion and feature-set ready.
So that means by the end of the year Dell will have a complete enterprise mobility management solution where we're providing the voice and messaging communications in February.
They'll start a national rollout with formal sales training and hopefully engage thousands of Dell people to go out and represent the EMM solution to their client but we don't expect to see meaningful commercial traction until after the Dell sales training in February of 2015.
Jamie next question please.
The next question comes from Robert Routh from National Alliance.
Congratulations on the deals.
As far as the BasicTalk product I know you launched a while ago with Amazon can you give us an update as to how well that's going and is there any chance that you could expand that? And I think also in May when you announced the expansion of the BasicTalk product you said there were going to be four new retail partnerships and one online in addition to Walmart and we have the CVS I'm wondering who the other three retail partners are if you're finished with the expansion of that product? This is Joe.
The other big partner was Family Dollar that rolled out through the month of September with 8 000 doors.
That was the primary add-on.
Amazon we've been in since the end of June where we're happy with the results there.
They are actually delivering similar kind of volumes as we're seeing at Walmart.com.
So BasicTalk is fully integrated into the Amazon channel.
Okay great.
And so that's the only other retail partner CVS Family Dollar and then Walmart? Between the two you have 15 000 to 16 000 locations.
Okay great.
And then as far as the cash value of your NOLs I know you had a bunch of NOLs from years ago when you reversed some of them and it's obviously a hidden asset of the Company I'm just curious as to can you give us an update now as to where that stands and are there still any NOLs that you could reverse going forward given how well you guys are doing? And then how incentivized is this management in the form of options and all that to continue doing what you've been doing and staying with the Company? I'm just curious as to above the compensation point of view how that's structured.
I would assume you guys are highly incentivized to keep doing what you're doing but just wanted kind of an update on that.
Sure.
I'll start with the NOL question and then turn it over to Marc and Alan for the options question.
Regarding NOL we don't – first of all it's over $700 million.
We do not anticipate being a cash tax payer in this decade and we don't anticipate a major shift in how we're recognizing that at this point in time.
I would also note that Vocalocity came with an NOL and Telesphere is coming with an NOL as well which we'll be valuing over the pre-closing time.
And I'll take the first half of the employee compensation structure.
As you well know we do provide to many of our employees incentivization in the form of some stock options and performance RSUs.
Those performance RSUs which have been granted this year are tied very much to shareholder return over a three-year window and the details of that are public information so you can read that in our historical filings and get a feel for what those are as well as the compensation for the senior executive management and what that split is and what those performance – and how those performance metrics are delivered.
Relative to the leaders that you hear on the phone here today so Clark and Wain both in terms of their annual cash bonus as well as their stock performance plans are very tightly tied specifically to the performance of their business units.
So we are looking very clearly to Telesphere performance and Clark is highly incentivized to perform within his business specifically in the form of stock as is Wain.
Relative to Alan I think I'll let him speak for himself on that.
Thank you Marc.
So clearly that's a large chunk of my compensation in terms of aligning with the shareholders but philosophically going forward we'll continue that with future hires as well to make sure that the team is well aligned with the shareholders in terms of incentives.
Great.
Thank you very much.
At this time I'm showing no further questions.
I would now like to turn the call back over to the presenters.
Okay Jamie.
Thank you very much and that wraps up the call for today and we look forward to speaking with you further in the future.
Thank you everybody.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference for today.
Again thank you for your participation.
You may all disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Vonage Holdings Corporation’s Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Just as a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Hunter Blankenbaker Vice President of the Investor Relations.
Pleas go ahead sir.
Good thank you Dave.
And good morning everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Speaking on our call this morning will be Alan Masarek Chief Executive Office; and David Pearson CFO.
Also joining us are Joe Redling Chief Operating Officer; and Clark Peterson President of Telesphere a Vonage Company.
Slides that accompany today’s discussion are available on the IR Web-site.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks we’ll be happy to take your questions.
As referenced on Slide 2 I would like to remind everyone that statements made during this call may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These and all forward-looking statements are based on management’s expectations and depend on assumptions that may be incorrect or imprecise.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
More information about those risks and uncertainties is highlighted on the second page of the slides and contained in our SEC filings.
We caution listeners not to rely unduly on these statements and disclaim any intent or obligation to update them.
During this call we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to GAAP is available on the IR Web-site.
And now I’d like to turn the call over to Alan.
Thanks Hunter.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
I’m excited to be with you today and be reporting a very solid quarter highlighted by our highest EBITDA in ten quarters 56% year-over-year organic revenue growth at Vonage Business Solutions and the completion of the Telesphere acquisition.
Since this is my first earnings call as CEO I’d like to take a few moments to share some of my background as well as a few of the reasons why I was attracted to the Vonage.
I joined Vonage from Google which acquired my company Quickoffice in 2012.
I was the CEO and Co-Founder of Quickoffice the world’s most widely embedded mobile office software.
Quickoffice had shipped pre loaded on more than 500 million smartphones and tablets and it has 26 million registered users at the time of Google’s purchase.
Including Quickoffice I spent the last two decades leading technology center of companies and I have always pursued growth strategies that include organic and inorganic growth and I planned to bring this same focus to Vonage.
Since joining just four months ago I’ve immersed myself in the company I’ve traveled to all various offices conducted operating and strategic business reviews have listened to and learned from our employees investors and business partners and inevitably one of the first questions I’m asked is why leave Google and that California weather for Vonage.
And my answer is pretty straightforward.
I joined because Vonage has a powerful set of assets that I felt were under leveraged.
I believe can be optimized to create significant shareholder value and innovative new services to customers and I tend to think about these assets in four buckets.
The first asset that attracted me was the Vonage brand.
The company has invested more than $2 billion over the past decade to build this brand and the result not surprisingly that the Vonage brand has incredibly high awareness.
And while traditionally positioned as a consumer brand the Vonage brand extends naturally into the adjacent business markets for unified communications.
And this was proven with Vocalocity which we acquired in 2013 and quickly rebranded as Vonage Business Solutions.
The results have been tremendous and is demonstrated that the Vonage brand had significant value in the business market.
Based on our brands we conducted last year Vonage’s brand awareness is roughly 80% this is dramatically higher than our public pure-play competitors each of which had awareness levels in the low single-digits.
The second half that attracted me was Vonage’s opportunity in the small and medium business markets for Unified Communications as a Service.
UCaaS is a very large market that’s now hitting a real tipping point.
Frost and Solomon predicts that UCaaS SMB market which we defined as businesses between one and 1 000 seats will grow at a 27% CAGR over the next five years.
And Vonage has already assembled a leadership position in this fast growing business space.
When combined with Telesphere Vonage’s 2015 business revenues will be among the largest of the public pure-play UCaaS providers.
Yet our growth rate is a lot higher about 40% in 2015.
By acquiring two outstanding companies we now have the platform and the management team to serve the entire SMB market.
So as I consider joining the company I felt Vonage’s success in SMB wasn’t being fully recognized by the market in a large measure because the success we had to-date and the big opportunity presented in business services was somewhat varied within our larger Consumer Services business.
Now after these two acquisitions and their rapid follow-on growth as these business revenues will comprise more than 20% of Vonage’s 2015 revenues and will become a larger percentage overtime.
The third asset is the strong stable cash flow provided by Consumer Services.
Today we announced consolidated EBITDA for 2014 of $124 million all of which was generated by Consumer Services.
Now while this reflects an obviously strong performance the under appreciated story of my view is Vonage’s opportunity to reallocate those marketing dollars spend in consumer towards higher returning investments and business services.
I emphasize the reallocation of these marketing dollars because it helps to explain increased current year declines in revenues and Consumer Services.
In 2014 we reduced Consumer Services marketing by $30 million over 2013 and we reallocated a portion of those dollars to business services but we have superior customer economics.
This year we’re going to reduce consumer marketing even further and allocate even more dollars to business services to continue to fuel the growth of Vonage Business Solutions as well as now Telesphere.
In addition we’re reducing TD spend on BasicTalk now that is in thousands of retail distribution doors.
And as we discussed on previous calls we continue to modify our approach in the assisted selling channel so that sales partners’ incentives are more financially tied to our churn metrics.
We’re also altering our marketing mix to make it more efficient by allocating more investment to direct response vehicles and we’ve coupled this with a much much greater focus on digital.
The last element of our marketing reallocation is the substantial increase in brand based standard spending to further establish Vonage as a business brand.
Simply stated we want to everyone to know that Vonage means business.
The net of all these plans changes is that in 2015 we expect Consumer Services to generate greater profitability.
It will also have lower revenues yet with less account churn as we prioritize acquisition spending to our higher performing channels.
Now of course we’re not satisfied with year-over-year revenue declines in Consumer Services.
So we’re focusing on product development with an emphasis on mobile which is where I come from.
And adding product management and engineering resources to accelerate the delivery of new products that will provide greater value to our customers.
The fourth asset that I saw was the competitive advantage and financial flexibility that comes from Vonage’s scale its cost structure and high cash flows I just spoke about.
The cash flows from Consumer Services fund investment in growth initiatives at a much lower cost of capital than our peers.
And we have a bonding facility in place that gives us borrowing rates bond rates below 3.5%.
So on a low cost of capital low operating cost structure and our cost generating ability give Vonage bi-side advantages as the UCaaS market inevitably consolidates and we intend to be the leader in this consolidation.
So that’s how I viewed Vonage’s assets when I decided to join.
Since I’ve been here and learned more my confidence in these assets has only increased.
We have a stellar brand its almost iconic a low cost structure great technology platforms and excellent cash flows and financial flexibility.
We combine all of this with a highly experienced leadership team.
All together I strongly believe we have the pieces in place to drive sustainable long-term improvements in shareholder values.
So let’s move to fourth quarter results.
Our business services area had an outstanding fourth quarter.
Vonage Business Solutions revenue grew to $27 million a 56% year-over-year increase.
The fourth quarter also marked the one year anniversary of our acquisition of VBS.
And the results of this acquisition have exceeded all most optimistic expectations let me share a few highlights.
We accelerated full year 2014 revenue growth to 50%.
We grew year-over-year bookings by 64%.
And we achieved cost synergies of more than $5 million primarily by applying Vonage’s lower cost of telephony services to VBS.
We expect to duplicate VBS’s success with Telesphere.
Telesphere nearly doubled our addressable market enabling us to serve larger enterprises within SMB.
These customers require higher service level agreements and carrier grade future sets bundled with our MPLS broadband not only for voice but for other cloud services as well.
We fundamentally believe that effectively compete the larger multi-location customers.
You’ve got to all for a bundle that guarantees quality of service as well as provide a single point of responsibility for customer support.
The combination of VBS and Telesphere enables Vonage to serve the full range of SMB.
Remember we define as one of a thousand.
Our compiling cloud base solutions address the needs of businesses that stand from smaller and home office companies up to those large enterprises with distributed work forces in many many many locations.
Well a sizable portion of our business revenues are derived from larger customers generally with those greater than 50 seats we also see great value at the smaller end of SMB.
But also remember small businesses drive economic growth and job creation in the U.S.
98% of the businesses have fewer than within 20 employees.
VBS’s low cost digital and telesales the customer acquisition model generates very very attractive subscriber economics in this segment and we’re going to continue to pursue it aggressively.
Now since closing the Telesphere acquisition we found the same playbook as we used in the Vocalocity.
We’ve invested our capital to accelerate Telesphere sales and marketing while reducing its cost by leveraging our favorable telephony contracts.
Soon we will finalize branding in a way to connect Telesphere more tightly under the Vonage brand umbrella.
So to sum it all up we know how to execute on attractive acquisitions but more importantly had to nurture them and accelerate the growth.
We have the platform and the team in place to continue to drive industry leading growth in business service.
We are investing the maximum amount of dollars we believe VBS and Telesphere can productively deploy.
Additional dollars will be allocated to acquisitions and to this end we’ve expanded our corporate development resources to support this strategy.
Moving on to Consumer Services.
We’re beginning to see the benefits of our focused on customer life time value.
As planned gross line additions were down this quarter as we continue improving the quality of customers we acquire while driving lower churn and increased profitability.
Customer churn decreased 2.5% from 2.7% and the number of actual lines churned has declined for three consecutive quarters.
The lower number churn lines highlight improvements in the early life churn of newly acquired customers.
And also highlights the ongoing stability of our tenure base.
We’re going to continue to execute on this strategy of improving marketing efficiency and allocating spend to a highest return opportunities.
Now as I mentioned earlier we are investing on our product roadmap in Q4 we launched the mobile inbound calling a extensions feature that links the Vonage home calling plan to customer’s mobile devices adding both in-bound and out-bound calling from smartphones.
More than half of our subscriber base has extensions and are enjoying it full untethered home calling experience.
In fact mobile now represents 28% of all Vonage out-bound international minutes.
And two million in-bound minutes per month and just last week we launched selective call block a new mobile feature that allows customers to block unwanted calls in real time with the swipe of the thing.
I think there are many more excellent opportunities for Vonage to introduce new and exciting products features and customer enhancement customer experience enhancements.
Now they have been doing product development in my company for long a time I’ve got a great deal of passion for product development and we have - what I found here a talented and committed group of employees that share a renewed sense of excitement and urgency to deliver great products to the customer.
To summarize let me reiterate the power of the combination of Vonage’s consumer business services.
Our brand is a tremendous asset and we are going to invest in it and broaden its market appeal to ensure everyone knows that Vonage means business.
Our consumer and business efforts complement each other from a product and cost perspective and give us the ability to drive UCaaS features into Consumer Services and use our scale and cost structure as a competitive advantage in business services.
Ultimately you should come to see Vonage as a one company united under a single brand which provides UCaaS solutions to multiple customer segments from individual to small enterprises.
So that Vonage emerges as the clear leader in cloud communications.
Lastly as you will hear more in detail from Dave we expect 2015 financial performance to reflect our focus on profitability and consumer services and a high revenue growth in business services.
We expect double-digit year-over-year EBITDA growth with the revenues slightly down on a GAAP basis.
I believe in moves I had outlined are the appropriate steps to position the company for future revenue growth.
In addition with our track record of the disciplined acquire and a pipeline of active opportunities we expect to complete one or more acquisitions in year which will be additive to 2015 revenue.
I now like to turn the call over to Dave to discuss our financials and 2015 guidance in more detail.
Thank you.
Thanks Alan and good morning everyone.
I’m pleased to review our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2014 and outlook for 2015.
Before I begin let me provide context for the numbers we reported this morning.
We closed the acquisition of Telesphere on December 15 2014.
Fourth quarter results therefore include approximately two weeks of Telesphere’s financial results further adjusted down for purchase accounting which had a very modest impact on the financials.
When we discuss VBS those numbers do not include any contribution from Telesphere.
I’d also like to note the beginning in the first quarter of 2015 our disclosure structure will evolve to take into account the growing proportion of business service revenues which as Alan noted we expect to be in the 20% range for 2015.
These changes will enable investors to better compare Vonage to our peers in the SaaS space.
With that let’s begin on Slide 5.
For the fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA was $35 million up from $30 million sequentially plus in continued cost reductions including in consumer sales and marketing.
Adjusted EBITDA was up 38% from $25 million in the year-ago quarter reflecting lower cost of telephony services and lower marketing expense.
Full year adjusted EBITDA was up 13% from the prior year to $124 million and well ahead of our guidance.
VBS results reflect a strong cash flow generation capacity of our consumer business.
Moving to Slide 6 revenue for the fourth quarter was $215 million flat sequentially Vonage Business Solutions revenue improved to $27 million a 9% sequential and 56% year-over-year increase and was offset by a sequential decline in consumer revenues.
Turning to Slide 7 for the full year revenue was $869 million up 5% from the prior year and inline with our guidance the increase of due to the addition and subsequent acceleration of Vonage Business Solutions’ revenue offset by line reductions in consumer.
VBS grew revenue 50% organically in 2014 the first full year of Vonage’s ownership to $93 million.
Fourth quarter average revenue per user or ARPU was $28.61 up from $28.19 sequentially due primarily to the $1 price increase we implemented across Vonage World in U.S.
and Canada unlimited plans in the third and fourth quarters and the recasting of our number of lines to exclude second line extensions between no longer charge resulting in a reduction of approximately 79 000 subscriber lines.
GAAP net income was $6 million or $0.03 per share up from $5 million or $0.02 per share sequentially.
GAAP net income was up from $4 million or $0.02 per share in the year-ago quarter.
Adjusted net income was $19 million or $0.09 per share up sequentially from $14 million and $0.07 per share and up from $10 million or $0.05 per share in the year-ago quarter.
Sequential and year-over-year increases were driven by the higher EBITDA the adjusted net income metric excludes the acquisition related items of intangibles amortization and adjust for the fact of Vonage is not a material cash tax payer due to our over $700 million NOL.
We continue to drive efficiencies in COTS.
Before giving detail on that I note that with the filing of our 2014 10-K we will be reclassifying certain network operations and customer care expenses that for previously reported in SG&amp;A in two COTS.
Our press release and my comments all reflect this change for the current and prior periods and our Form 10-K will reflect that reclassification as well.
This reclassification has no impact on any bottom-line metric such as operating income adjusted EBITDA or net income.
We reduced cost of $57 million from $58 million a year-ago primarily due to lower international termination rates per line which declined by 15%.
These reductions are despite the addition of VBS costs.
COTS was flat with the third quarter.
COTS per line was $7.57 up from $7.46 sequentially due to an increase in USF fees which are passed through and down from $7.87 in the fourth quarter of last year.
Selling general and administrative expense for the fourth quarter was $70 million.
This is up $4 million from the third quarter reflecting acquisition related expenses and the addition of Telesphere SG&amp;A.
SG&amp;A increased from $67 million in the prior year quarter due to the addition of VBS SG&amp;A.
Marketing expense for the fourth quarter was $52 million down from $58 million sequentially and year-over-year.
This decline reflects continued efficiencies in our consumer marketing spend focused on the quality and profitability of subscribers and our focused on generating cash flow to invest in driving growth in business services.
Subscriber line acquisition cost SLAC increased to $373 from $365 sequentially from $331 a year-ago due the lower gross line additions in consumer and the removal of paid second line extensions customers from gross line additions.
As we lower marketing we expects SLAC come down overtime.
In the mean time we believe that we are getting higher value customers at these SLAC levels.
Turning to Slide 8 gross line additions or GLAs for 138 000 down from 160 000 sequentially and 175 000 in the prior year’s quarter due to lower customer line additions in consumer.
Lower GLAs which were planned reflect our continued focus on adding lines that meet our customer life time value objectives and our choice to redeployed capital into business services.
Customer churn for the fourth quarter was 2.5% down from 2.7% sequentially and flat compared with a year ago quarter.
The actual number of churned accounts was down sequentially and year-over-year.
The churn improvement as Alan noted as a result of our focused on adding high value customers that are less likely to churn as well as the stability over a tenured base.
This demonstrates that the actions we started taking in the second quarter of 2014 the assisted sales channel as has the desired effect.
Account churn of VBS for 2.2% customer account churn for VBS will tend to fluctuate given the relative size of its account base and increase in Q4 due to early life churn and the presence of more small accounts.Net lines were negative 29 000 in the quarter a result of the reduction in GLAs.
CapEx for the quarter including the acquisition and development of software assets to $7 million primarily for network infrastructure and systems improvements.
This was flat sequentially and up slightly from $6 million in the year-ago quarter.
For the year CapEx was $24 million up from $22 million a year-ago reflecting the addition of VBS.
Free cash flow which we define as adjusted EBITDA minus CapEx cash interest cash taxes acquisition expenses and changes in working capital was $24 million in the fourth quarter up to $3 million sequentially due to increased EBITDA offset by acquisition cost related to Telesphere.
Free cash flow was down from $30 million in the year-ago quarter primarily due to very positive changes in working capital in that quarter.
Free cash flow for the year was $68 million up from $66 million due to the increased EBITDA.
Adjusted EBITDA minus CapEx was $28 million in the fourth quarter up 48% year-over-year and $99 million for 2014 up 14% over the prior year reflecting the strong cash flow generation of our consumer business.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased $3.7 million shares or $13 million completing the $100 million program authorized in February 2013.
In addition our former CEO net share-settled his outstanding in-the-money options the results of which was the company effectively buying back an additional $4.3 million shares between this transaction and our open market repurchases we effectively bought back $8 million shares in the fourth quarter and an accretive average price at $3.54 per share.
Excluding the net share settled transaction during 2014 we repurchased 13 million shares for $49 million.
Since beginning our buyback program in August of 2012 we have repurchased $45 million shares of Vonage stock for $133 million at a highly accretive average price of $2.97.
As we announced in December Board of Directors demonstrated it’s confidence in our higher cash flow and strong balance sheet by authorizing a new program to repurchase up to $100 million of our stock over a four-year period beginning in 2015.
We believe this new program provides the right capital allocation balance and flexibility to organic investments acquisitions and buybacks.
Cash cash equivalents and marketable securities as of December 31 were $51 million including $3 million in restricted cash and $7 million in marketable securities.
Net debt was $119 million and we ended the quarter with net debt to adjusted EBITDA of less than one times.
Yes $67 million drawn on our revolving credit facility as a result of the Telesphere acquisition and of approximately $60 million of additional borrowing capacity remaining in this facility.
The revolver also has an accordion feature that provides additional capacity.
We have ample liquidity and flexibility to execute on our organic and inorganic growth strategies.
I will now discuss our guidance for 2015.
In 2015 we believe consolidated revenue prior to acquisitions will be in the range of $850 million to $865 million.
Importantly within this we believe we can grow organic business services revenue that’s combined VBS and Telesphere approximately 40% in 2015.
As Alan mentioned we expect to be acquisitive in 2015 and based on our M&amp;A pipeline we plan to deliver revenue above the guidance provided.
Acquisitions are an important part of our strategy and we have proven we can execute them accretively and on a disciplined basis.
We already have the platforms we need to serve the broad rapidly growing SMB market which ranges from small businesses to larger enterprises with hundreds of locations.
Therefore further acquisitions will fit these assets and we expect them to deliver significant synergies.
Acquisition targets would expand our geographic presence sales force product set and our customer base at attractive prices.
Regarding EBITDA for 2015 we expect it to increase from $110 million in 2013 and $124 million in 2014 to at least $135 million consistent with the 2014 second half run rate.
Our EBITDA projection is based on increased cash flow from Consumer Services the reallocation of marketing dollars towards business services and an increased infrastructure investments in our business services grew where we plan to run modestly EBITDA negative as we invest to maximize growth and exploit it superior customer economics.
We expect CapEx to come in around the $30 million.
Thank you for your continued support of Vonage I’ll now turn the call back over to Hunter to initiate the Q&amp;A session.
Thanks Dave.
Sahib [ph] we’re ready for the first question please.
Thank you sir.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from George Sutton from Craig-Hallum.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Thank you.
Alan I particularly appreciated the reallocation of spend discussion earlier in part of the call.
Yes.
Wondered relative to 2015 how much are you planning to further reallocate to the business side from the customer side you mentioned $30 million in 2014 I’m curious from an incremental perspective? Well we are - the reallocation is - has multiple pieces to it.
So one is we reallocated in the business services as much as we think they can productively deploy.
Then within consumer services we remixed it essentially by as I mentioned continuing to refine what we’re doing in the system selling channel moving away from brand spending on BasicTalk and at the same investing into the brand.
And again we’re focusing more on direct response vehicles and very heavily on digital.
Okay that’s helpful and you mentioned 40% if I heard correctly 40% VBS organic growth updated [ph] for 2015 which I think would comfortably puts you above everyone else.
Can you give us a sense of the composition you are expecting is it relative to less than 20 lines greater than 20 lines I was kind of curious how you are coming up with 40%? Yes that’s - it’s David that’s VBS and Telesphere combined and that’s across the platform.
Both VBS and Telesphere are growing at roughly that rate.
Okay.
Lastly if I could relative to acquisitions are you planning to keep the acquisitions focused on the business side of the equation and are you - would acquisitions look more similar to Telesphere than anything else? Thanks.
Sure George.
This is Alan again.
Essentially yes our focus is we believe there is a long tail of acquisition opportunities and things like we’ve done with VBS and Telesphere or whatever principally focused on as we move forward.
Perfect thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Catharine Trebnick of Dougherty.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Thanks for taking my question nice print.
Could - one of my questions is on the Business Services would you say and or could you say in Q4 the line average lines are one to 20 year 20 to 50 just kind of give some color around that? Sure I think we can update some information or reference some information we gave before.
So within VBS which represent a $93 million of revenue for 2014 the average lines per customer is in the mid-single digits.
For Telesphere as we talked about at the time of acquisition and they did about $40 million of revenue in 2014 obviously growing quickly their average lines is approaching 50 it’s in the 40s per customer.
I would also note that within Telesphere there is a - their average number of lines per customer is already high but there is a shift happening right now which is that line count as we add customers is actually going up.
And in fact if you think about our entire complex this includes VBS and Telesphere.
More than a quarter of that revenue is coming from customers with over 50 lines.
And that’s actual revenue in the quarter not revenue added.
So that’s a number of that we intend to accelerate overtime.
Okay thanks.
And then the other one more towards you Alan one of the things that a lot - some of the competitors feel because they have contact center support that they are very attractive to the mid-size market.
How do you look at Telesphere’s assets and do they have contact center support and is that part of some of the customer acquisitions that you do win? So we have excellent contact center support.
Let me turn that question to Clark he can speak more directly to it.
Yes and I appreciate the question.
On the contact center side we’ve been offering contact center and advanced contact center services for probably five years now.
Contact center customers all over the country and offer very advanced contact center features and services.
All right thanks I’ll pass on.
Thanks Catharine.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Mike Latimore from Northland Capital.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Yes great thanks very much.
Great quarter near that.
So just on the cost of telephony services [indiscernible] does that - do you think that will trend down overtime.
I do I mean it can be - it’s certainly can change quarter-to-quarter with USF and where rates are in India although which is our biggest termination point internationally but those rates are capped so it would be essentially floating only backup to that cap.
That’s the scientific answer the practical answer is yes termination rates are generally have been coming down and we believe that that trend not withstanding any quarterly fluctuation will continue.
Okay with reference to the guidance on for business services do you still assume the same amount of revenue from Telesphere as you did when you made the acquisition in 2015? Yes yes what we said about Telesphere at the time stand which is we were acquiring it for two times in that zone and that would put their revenue into the mid-to-high fifties for 2015.
And what did they contribute to the quarter to the fourth quarter? It was minimus it was less than $2 million of revenue.
And then you have some discussion about consumer product development activity I mean that how much money is going to that and is it really more just kind of a reshuffling of our R&amp;D.
This is Alan.
Our focus in product development is not capital intensive that all.
It’s really organizational and focus and perhaps to handful of in people.
We see opportunities generally driven by mobile the way I like to describe it is to bend the curve in terms of the value proposition to our customers.
And then large measure one of the reasons why this was hired was to bring that experience in mobile here.
And so we are tapping at that.
That’s excellent.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Greg Burns from Sidoti &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Can you give us any additional color maybe underline dynamics of composition of the consumer base relative to BasicTalk’s growth and maybe the churn you are seeing your higher ARPU customers.
Sure.
I mean as we’ve talked about before I mean you really have three pieces of the consumer base you’ve got people who make international long distance calls and those are people who are in Vonage-branded devices by definition it’s not BasicTalk.
That’s about 50% of our base and that part of the base tends to have better churn and the average and finds very good utility through extensions and that lot of the product innovations to-date has been to address that base.
The second part of the base which is smaller than that but bigger substantially bigger than BasicTalk it’s premium domestic these are people on Vonage-branded devices that are not making long distance calls they tend to have a very high ARPU and very very high pre-marketing operating income that’s where we see churn it’s where the biggest issue but it’s also very profitable phase that we are managing very very carefully and that’s where retention offers additional features product innovation we think we’ll be particularly effective as we develop that.
The third piece is since BasicTalk and I think as we talked about where we were going on BasicTalk is to get the slack below 200 and let the distribution do the work and essentially take as Alan referenced take marketing down very very substantially there.
That product we believe is profitable and we’ll continue to toggle on essentially at its current phase based on the dynamics.
So this is distinct minority of our base right now and it’s - likely to stay kind of in that zone.
Okay.
When we look at the net adds for the quarter I guess you use boss 79 000 so how should we think about that number because that includes the 79 000 that you shed for the second lines or what does that imply for the actual net adds excluding that? Yes it does not include the 79 000.
Yes it does not include the 79 000 so the - essentially total net lines down 29 000 that was composed of VBS Telesphere obviously it was not factor.
That’s composed of positive VBS net lines and pretty consistent with what we’ve seen in prior quarters and then consumer down.
So VBS accounted for all of the growth there.
Okay then lastly on the comment for the tentative landscape for the VBS side of the business a lot of the competitors we see out there are really almost walking away from the law into the market what are you seeing and how are you benefiting from that? Greg this is Alan.
So first of all we see great economics in the low end as I mentioned in my comments.
VBS has a very very efficient customer acquisition model that enables us to grab the smaller customers very profitably.
And this is our whole digital leads in telesales model that whole customer acquisition approach is working really really well for us.
At the same time Telesphere is tacking ever higher and has a broader range of from a career grade set of features.
So VBS also sells higher line sizes too but we think we’ve got this market that we defined the SMB market as one to the 1 000 cover.
And the economics are really exceptional at both the low end and the high end.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Rollins from Citigroup.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Yes thanks for taking the question.
The first question I just want to make sure I understand when you talked about the 850 to 855 for revenue guidance in 2015 is that fully inclusive of the Telesphere and the growth that you expect to get in Telesphere 2015.
Yes it is.
And you know I’m sorry go ahead please.
I no - no - yes it is that does include Telesphere.
I just more broadly just following-up immediately on some of the other questions is there a level of line loss investor should be prepare for given what’s going on in terms of the strategic shift in the business? Mike I think you’re seeing it I mean our guidance implies a level of line loss and revenue loss in consumer that we are choosing to take because we believe that does the money we would have spent getting those lines many of which we believe would have been profitable but the money that we would have spend is better deployed either directly into business in the form of EBITDA or into debt reduction or cash for the use of acquisitions that are accretive.
The level of our guidance implies is a level of that we’re comfortable with.
The factors that could change that in the future would include product development on or that particular revenue becoming more attractive from a capital perspective than the other capital allocation choices that we have.
Okay how should we think about the margin profile between - the gross margin profile between the VBS customer versus the consumer customer relative to what the new pro forma average under the new communication method that you’re providing? Yes sure we don’t calculate gross margin directly but obviously the slack I mean just think about the VBS customer versus the consumer customer slack on a VBS line is lower.
It’s been the kind of $250 range.
The churn is better.
It’s as we talk about the gross margin does tend to be higher because your average consumer makes long distance calls and sorry international long distance calls and those international long distance calls tend to be expensive.
Now the overall dollar margin on an ILD caller is very very attractive because of the ARPU that the margin is a bit lower so your average VBS customer doesn’t have any ILD.
So also has a higher gross margin or service margin than your average consumer.
So when you think that - when we talk about those economics being more attractive and putting capital there are being more attractive that’s the calculation.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We have a follow-up question from Mike Latimore from Northland Capital.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks.
Dave I just wanted to sink up two numbers that you gave.
One was that you thought about 20% of the fiscal 2015 revenue would come from business which to sort of 173 million but then you also said sort of 40% growth which I think gives you more like 186 million.
So can you just stick those two comments up a little bit? Yes the 20% was around estimate of implication you took away on the dollars divided into the guidance would be the more exact math.
Okay.
Alright thanks.
I’m showing no further questions at this time.
I’d like to turn the conference back over for closing remarks.
Yes great thanks Dave [ph].
That does conclude our call today.
We appreciate your support at Vonage and look forward to speaking with you during the quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference.
This concludes our program.
You may all disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Vonage Holding Corporation First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Just a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to your Hunter Blankenbaker Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Mr.
Blankenbaker.
Great thank you Marcus and good morning and welcome to our first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Speaking on the call this morning will be Alan Masarek Chief Executive Officer and Dave Pearson CFO.
Also joining us are Joe Redling Chief Operating Officer and Clark Peterson President of Telesphere.
Alan will discuss the company’s strategy and first quarter results and Dave will provide more detailed view of our first quarter financial results.
Slides of the company’s today’s discussion are available on the IR website.
As referenced on slide two I would like to remind everyone that statements made during this call maybe forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These and all forward-looking statements are made upon management’s expectations and depend on assumptions that maybe incorrect or imprecise.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
More information about those risks and uncertainties is highlighted on the second page of the slides and contained on our SEC filings.
The caution list that is not to rely unduly on these statements and disclaim any intent or obligation to update it.
During this call we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures a reconciliation to GAAP is available on the IR website.
With that I will now turn the call over to Alan.
Thanks Hunter and good morning everyone thanks for joining us.
I’m excited to discuss our Q1 results.
On our last earning’s call I reported on my first full quarter as CEO and I outlined a new direction for the company that included maximizing the profitability of consumer services while aggressively growing organic revenues and pursuing inorganic growth at Vonage business.
In addition I wanted to establish Vonage as a leading business brand.
Reinvigorate the company’s culture by returning it to its innovative and disruptive routes and investing our people so that Vonage becomes a destination place to work.
I’m proud to report that we are well on our way towards achieving these goals.
A few highlights of our Q1 results.
We generated consolidated revenue of $220 million reflecting a $5 million sequential increase.
We generated consolidated EBITDA of $38 million a 28% year-over-year increase and up $3 million sequential.
And within Vonage business we achieved year-over-year organic revenue growth of 49%.
We also closed on the SimpleSignal acquisition on April 1 and today we announced an agreement to acquire gUnify a company whose technology platform will integrate our Telesphere communications platform with SaaS based business applications like Google for Work Zendesk Salesforces sales cloud Clio among others.
I’ll discuss these acquisitions in more detail in a moment but for now let’s move on to a deeper look at the quarter and I’ll start with Vonage business which is how we now collectively brand all of our business acquisitions including VBS Telesphere SimpleSignal and now gUnify.
Vonage business had an outstanding quarter and is well positioned for future growth.
Revenue grew to $42 million up 49% year-over-year organic increase and a 120% increase on a GAAP basis.
We had a 26 000 seats and set a new record for bookings in a single quarter.
Our success is driven by strong demand for cloud based communications and Vonage’s ability to serve all segments of the SMB market.
We have the right platforms and product set to serve customers one to a thousand seats and more and we strongly believe in the opportunity that exists across the full spectrum of the SMB market.
While we are growing quickly in the mid market and with larger companies within the SMB market we continue to see excellent growth potential with smaller businesses.
It’s important to highlight that 90% of all employer companies in the U.S.
have fewer than 20 employees and this segment is rapidly embracing the cloud.
Our low cost digital and telesales customer acquisition model generates very attractive subscriber economics and we are investing aggressively to further penetrate this segment.
The sizable portion of Vonage business revenue is also derived from SMB customers at the mid to upper ends of the market.
These customers generally require quality of service or QOS service level agreements and enterprise grade feature set matching those traditionally provided by on premise PBX vendors.
As of the first quarter more than 25% of Vonage business revenues came from accounts with greater than 50 seats.
The acquisition of SimpleSignal strengthens our ability to serve this segment.
SimpleSignal uses the same underlying platform as Telesphere and it provides career grade reliability across both NPLS and bring your own broadband or BYOB delivery options.
SimpleSignal has been particularly successful at providing business quality voice and rich communication features through new edge router technologies which extend QOS for those bring your own broadband customers and thereby further expands our product portfolio and addressable market.
Since completing the acquisition of SimpleSignal we’ve made steady progress on integration and we’re on track to achieve cost and revenue synergies of nearly $2 million next year.
Additionally as part of the integration of SimpleSignal and Telesphere we have reorganized our Vonage business distribution around four key channels to more effectively serve the SMB market.
Those four channels are one telesales consistent of inbound and outbound direct sales which sells primarily to smaller businesses.
Two online self service a new capability coming out later this quarter that will enable small businesses to sign up for our service directly.
Three enterprise direct consisting of sales people in the field selling primarily to the mid market and to the larger companies within the SMB sector.
And four channel sales which distributes our products primarily through master agents and thousands of sub-agents.
These later two channels enterprise direct and channel sales will sell the full portfolio of Vonage business offerings from bring your own broadband cloud products to those BYOB with edge router products to set trucking to a fully managed highly secure QOS offering delivered over our national NPLS network with ATM pops across the country.
Our channel sales partners serve a wide range of businesses from small and home office companies to much larger enterprises with hundreds of distributed offices.
Given our channel partners comfort that we deliver the full range of solutions necessary to meet the diverse needs of their customers we believe we’re uniquely positioned to have our channel partners think Vonage first regardless of size or complexity of the customer opportunity.
In fact we recently attended the channel partner conference in Las Vegas to present this new vision with the unified team and message.
The response from our channel partners were tremendous the best that I’ve seen in my two decades over attending [indiscernible].
The channel is excited to have a partner like Vonage one that not only provide solutions for the full range of their SMB customers but is also financially strong and investing aggressively for growth.
Building on this strength this morning we announced an agreement to acquire gUnify a cloud based Technology Company who’s Middleware Solution integrates our cloud communications platform with today’s most widely used SaaS based business application.
Again including Google for Work Zendesk Salesforce Clio and other CRM solutions.
From a strategic perspective the acquisition at gUnify is significant I want to highlight three key reasons.
First gUnify differentiates our offering from other UCaaS providers.
It’s best to think of gUnify as the connective tissue that integrates cloud communications with the core SaaS based business apps that companies used every day as part of their daily workflow.
Like Salesforce for CRM or Google for Work and productivity.
By integrating into a company’s existing workflow our Telephony and Communication solutions become embedded and far less likely to churn that’s a great differentiator.
Second gUnify creates distribution partnership opportunities with those business applications we integrate with.
Typically stated we add value to their solutions and they add value to ours it’s a win-win and I believe we can build distribution partnerships around that.
Finally gUnify is the only cloud based SaaS connector fully integrated with BroadSoft which is the underlying communications layer used by both Telesphere and SimpleSignal .This is really compelling when you consider that BroadSoft has more than 10 million business lines installed world-wide and with gUnify Vonage now has a solution to earn to SaaS integration within that entire ecosystem.
From a market readiness perspective it’s important to understand that this type of integration is increasingly being demanded by SMBs because until very recently the best integration tools have been provided really only by on premise PBX solutions.
Now with gUnify we can extend that same robust integration to the cloud PBX and more comprehensively serve our business customers.
So to summarize Vonage business is positioned to continue to drive industry leading growth in the SMB market.
According to data from investment Venture Partners our forecasted revenue growth of 40% in 2015 ranks us 9<sup>th</sup> among all public SaaS companies and Vonage is the only UCaaS company within the top ten.
We have the platforms and teams in place to serve all segments of the market and we are investing aggressively for organic growth including a substantial increase in brand based spending to reinforce that Vonage means business.
We’ll also continue to execute on our acquisition growth strategy which is to target assets that expand our geographic presence product set and/or customer base and add attractive prices.
We’ve demonstrated that we’re disciplined to acquire and we’re actively evaluating a risk pipeline about the companies.
Now moving on to consumer services.
We continue to see the benefits of our focus on customer life time value and marketing efficiency.
Consumer revenues for the quarter were a $178 million and consumer services accounted for all of Vonage’s EBITDA reflecting its strong cash flow generation ability.
Our marketing efficiency is improving the quality of customers we acquire it’s driving lower churn and generating increase profitability.
On our last earnings call I said we continue to reduce sales and marketing expense within consumer services while reallocating some of those dollars to Vonage business where we have superior subscriber economics.
This quarter consumer sales and market decline by $10 million sequentially yet consumer line additions were down only slightly and only within basic talk.
These results are very encouraging.
Reductions and spends drove material reductions and acquisition cost as we continue to shift our focus to more efficient direct response vehicles and channels.
Consumer services account churn for the quarter was 2.4% 20 basis point improvement over the year ago quarter.
This better performance reflects the stability of our tenured base and the improvement in the early life churn of newly acquired customers.
Churn improvements coupled with lower acquisition costs result in higher customer life time value.
We intent to intensify our focus on these metrics to maximize profitability and cash flow within consumer services.
While we made great strides in remixing our marketing spend over the past several months there is more work to be done and I’m therefore pleased to welcome Ted Gilvar as our Chief Marketing Officer.
Ted is a veteran digital marketing innovator joining us from Monster world-wide where he was EVC and Chief Marketing Officer where we’re seeing all aspects of Monster’s global marketing function.
Ted will lead our efforts to ensure we are maximizing efficiency and effectiveness of our marketing program.
He is also leading the effort to extend the iconic Vonage brand into business markets.
Ultimately we want everyone to view Vonage as one company with one brand that services multiple customer segments across business and consumers.
In summary we’ve had great start to the year.
We were executing on our plan to improve the profitability of consumer services while driving strong growth in Vonage business.
It’s also been a very eventful first six month as CEO.
We’ve taken despites of action to position the company for the future.
We exited the Brazil joint venture.
We’ve acquired Telesphere SimpleSignal and now gUnify.
We reorganized the Vonage business sales channels and aligned our products with the market opportunity all will generating the fastest revenue growth in the UCaaS sector.
We’ve increased consolidated EBITDA with the highest level in 13 quarters by improving the core profitability with consumer services.
We’re actively repositioning the Vonage brand emphasizing our business strength to the world knows Vonage means business.
And finally we are reinvigorating Vonage’s culture for innovation and disruption while investing our people through a variety of initiatives we referred to as employing first.
Simply said we are realizing the benefits of being one integrated company organized to drive our objective to be the clear leader in cloud communications.
Thanks for your time this morning and now I’d like to turn the call over to Dave to discuss our financials in more detail.
Thanks Alan and good morning everyone.
I’m pleased to review our financial results for the first quarter of 2015.
More diving into the results I’d like to review with here some changes we’re making in our reporting.
As I noted we would on last quarter’s call we have now updated our income statement and summary operating data which I will also refer to as TPIs give investors more detail on Vonage on a consolidated basis as well as each of our consumer and business operations.
We believe these changes will enable investors to better compare Vonage to our peers in the SaaS space and take into account the growing proportion of Vonage business revenue which is expected to account for nearly one quarter of 2015 consolidated revenue.
Specific reclassifications we made to the income statement include combining sales and marketing into one line item to reflect the increasing materiality of selling expenses given however our product to sell business.
This category includes traditional sales and marketing expenses [indiscernible] media and sales commission as well as sales and marketing personal salaries benefits and IT Tiers 1 and 2 customer care and credit card processing fees.
We also created a new income statement line item called engineering and development.
This item reflects the cost of developing new products and technologies and supporting our service platforms.
Because our networks include to mature Vonage consumer VoIP platform and the Telesphere platform where we are purchasing license to BroadSoft through CapEx.
Thus effectively paying for R&amp;D performed by BroadSoft our engineering and development as a percentage of revenue is less than some of our peers.
With the removal of sales and engineering and development class from G&amp;A G&amp;A now consists of cost related to overhead function that just corporate personal stock compensation and facilities stock.
A conjunction with reclassifications made and intent to pay at the end of 4Q where we removed certain network operations and technical customer care centers into cost of service.
We believe that these income statement changes represent a logical evolution attracts our business.
None of the changes I just noted any effect on the definition or absolute amounts of revenues operating income net income or adjusted EBITDA.
In addition to the income statement changes we have changed certain TPIs and are providing them for each of our consumer and Vonage business operations.
There are three key changes.
One providing revenue churn ARPU and user metrics for each of consumer and business rather than on a consolidated basis.
Two in the case of Vonage business reporting the number of customer seat.
We believe this metric better enables investors to track our progress given that we are adding accounts across the spectrum of SMBs from one to greater than 1 000 employees.
Three starting next quarter we will begin reporting revenue churn revised business metric that we believe will be a better fit between SimpleSignal in our results and have a greater percentage of our revenue coming from larger account.
This metric will capture the churn effect of account [indiscernible].
We have shown all of these income statements in KPI changes for prior period so they can be compared overtime.
My comments that follow assume that the reporting changes I just discussed are made for all period.
Lastly before I get to the numbers I note that when we talk about Vonage business that represents our activities at VBS and Telesphere combined.
We announced the acquisition with SimpleSignal in March and closed it on April 1.
First quarter results therefore did not include any contribution from SimpleSignal.
With that let’s move to slide four.
For the first quarter adjusted EBITDA was $38 million reflecting a strong cash flow generation capacity of our consumer business.
Adjusted EBITDA was up from $35 million in Q4 and up from $29 million or 28% from the year ago quarter all reflecting lower termination consumer sales and marketing and G&amp;A costs.
Moving to slide five.
Consolidated revenue for the first quarter was $221 million up $5 million sequentially and down $1 million year-over-year.
Vonage business revenue improve to $42 million reflecting a strong quarter of organic growth and the addition of first full quarter of Telesphere revenue.
Year-over-year Vonage business organic revenue growth as if we had owned Telesphere for all periods is 49% GAAP revenue growth was 120%.
Vonage business growth was partially offset by a sequential decline in consumer revenues.
First quarter average revenue for user and consumer $29.97 down slightly from $28.06 sequentially and down from $28.54 year-over-year due primarily to continue changes in employment.
Vonage business ARPU is up significantly primarily due to the addition of a full quarter of Telesphere results.
GAAP net income is $7 million or $0.04 per share up from $6 million or $0.03 per share sequentially and up from $5 million or $0.02 per share in the year ago quarter.
Both improvements were driven by higher EBITDA.
Adjusted net income is $20 million or $0.10 per share up sequentially from $19 million and $0.09 per share and up from $13 million or $0.06 per share in the year ago quarter.
The sequential and year-over-year increases were also driven by higher EBITDA.
Adjusted net income metric exclude the acquisition related items including intangibles amortization and adjust for the fact that Vonage is not a material cash tax payers due to over $640 million NOL.
Cost of service was $62 million up from $59 million year ago and $57 million sequentially.
All of these increases were due to the addition of Telesphere cost that were partially offset by continued termination cost improvement.
Turning to slide six.
Sales and marketing expense for the first quarter was $86 million down from $87 million sequentially and is down from $95 million year-over-year.
The significant decline reflects continued efficiencies in our consumer sales and marketing expense as Alan noted is down $10 million sequentially.
Our focus on the quality and profitability of subscribers and are focused on generating cash flow to invest in driving growth in Vonage business.
It also includes a significant ramp in Vonage business sales and marketing costs as we build out sales and marketing teams to capture the strong demand for UCaaS.
We expect to continue to reduce consumer and ramp Vonage business sales and marketing during 2015.
Consumer acquisition costs were down in the quarter due to the lower sales and marketing expense but by gaining consumer customer acquisition efficiencies.
General and administrative expense for the first quarter was $23 million that was down $2 million in the fourth quarter due to lower acquisition costs and lower severance down $4 million from the year ago quarter reflecting lower settlement and legal costs and lower compensation costs.
Declines in G&amp;A are despite the addition of a full quarter of Telesphere G&amp;A.
Moving to slide seven customer churn and consumer was 2.4% flat to Q4 and an improvement from 2.6% a year ago quarter.
This year-over-year consumer churn improvement is a result of our focus on adding high value customers that have a lower churn profile as well as stability of our tenured base.
This demonstrates that the actions we started taking in the second quarter of 2014 in the assisted sales channel to support only those locations that generate highest LTV that has a desired effect.
We ended the quarter with $2.1 million subscriber lines in consumer down $177 000 from the prior year’s quarter on adjusting for the removable of $79 000 second line expansion from the account and down $50 000 sequentially smaller declines than in the prior quarter.
With net buy and trajectory [indiscernible] reflecting our continued focus on adding lines to meet our customer life time value objectives and our decision to redeploy capital into Vonage business.
Customer churn at Vonage business was 2.2% up from 2.1% in 4Q and from 1.6% in the year ago quarter.
These increases in churn are occurring primarily with smaller account.
We are bringing the expertise and analytics we have developed over the course of years on the consumer side to assess specific drivers of this and to align the IT and care organization that drive down churn.
Vonage business grew total seats to 338 000 reflecting a very strong quarter of organic growth.
Moving to slide eight.
CapEx for the quarter including the acquisition and development in software assets is $4 million primarily for the network infrastructure and systems improvement.
This was down by $7 million sequentially reflecting slightly in seasonal nature was less the year ago quarter.
Free cash flow which we define as net cash provided by operating activity minus capital expenditures and acquisition and development software assets $6 million flat the year ago quarter and is down from $24 million in Q4 of 2014 due to changes in working capital of annual 2014 cash bonus payments.
Adjusted EBITDA minus CapEx was $33 million up $6 sequentially and up $8 million or 30% year-over-year all reflecting a strong cash flow generation capacity [indiscernible].
During the first quarter we repurchased $2 million for $8 million under our new four year $100 million program.
As beginning our buyback programs in August of 2012 we’ve repurchased $47 million shares of Vonage stock from $141 million and an accretive average price of $3.02.
We believe this program provides the right capital allocation balance and flexibility between organic investment acquisition and buyback.
Cash cash equivalent and marketable securities as of March 31 was $53 million including $2 million in restricted cash and $8 million in marketable securities.
Net debt was $121 million and we ended the quarter net debt with adjusted EBITDA less than one time.
As of March 31 we had $87 million drawn on our revolving credit facility and have approximately $40 million of additional borrowing capacity remaining on the stability.
Drawn amount included $20 million for the SimpleSignal acquisition but we still have that cash on the balance sheet as that transaction did not close until the day after the quarter ended.
We expect to close gUnify acquisition in May for cash.
This transaction will not have a material impact on our cash position or liquidity.
More broadly we believe we have access to significant additional low cost debt in today’s market leading to the accordion feature of our current revolver.
Overall we’ve ramp the liquidity and flexibility to execute on our organic and acquisition growth strategies.
We believe that our balance sheet and low cost of capital continue to represent strategic [indiscernible].
Regarding 2015 guidance we are updating our revenue guidance to a range of $862 million to $877 million.
It takes into account the acquisition of SimpleSignal which we’ve purchased for approximately 1.5 time 2015 revenue and will own for three quarters of 2015.
This updated revenue guidance is prior with any further acquisitions in 2015.
There is no change to our view that we can grow Vonage business year-over-year revenue 40% organically from 2015.
As if we own Telesphere SimpleSignal and gUnify that follows 2014 and 2015.
EBITDA and CapEx guidance remain as discussed in our February call.
As Alan mentioned we continued to actively assess acquisition and have a robust M&amp;A pipeline.
Acquisitions are an important part of our strategy and we have proven we connected to a timeline of discipline accretive basis.
We already have the platforms we need to serve the broad rapidly growing SMB market that ranges from small businesses to larger enterprises with hundreds of location.
Therefore further acquisitions will likely fit with these asset and we would expect them to deliver significant synergies.
As with prior deals acquisition targets would expand our geographic presence product set and/or customer base at attractive prices.
Thank you for your continued support to Vonage.
I will now turn the call back over to Hunter to initiate the Q&amp;A session.
Okay great.
Thank you Dave.
Marcus could we initiate the first question please? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of George Sutton of Craig-Hallum.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you nice results guys.
Thanks Greg.
So as I looked through the reorganization and distribution that you talked about in the four different channels could you give sense of what the distribution capacity looks like now versus with prior to this change? And I’m wondering if you could also give us some more about a productivity metric or something that [indiscernible] side of it as well.
I’ll start and then I can turn over for more.
So the traditional distribution in Vocalocity which we later branded VBS was the telesales model.
And that is been a very successful kind of a linear growth model where we add sales resources on the phone and spend more on basically a search – from a search perspective add online lead generation at the top of the file that we then convert via telesales.
The Telesphere and SimpleSignal side they’ve all – they’ve both traditionally sold through the indirect channel so the master agents and subagents that are supported by our indirect channel managers and then also feet on the street direct sales model.
We now have collectively 30 indirect channel managers servicing that master agent and subagent channel and we service all the majors.
We have tremendous covers in the master agent channel and the subagents as well.
And then on the direct side on the enterprise direct side we are hiring rapidly to fill in regional markets and we have teams already in place in four markets likely will be in seven markets by the year end in terms we have hubs we have sales people where based dispersed more geographically but sort of – if you will sort of thought today in four cities by the end by seven and will grow from that basis even more.
As for metrics I’ll turn over to Carl to just – but this is all some of this is still in formation.
Yeah let me just add to what Alan said I think the – really the powerful thing about this is as we address the 1 to 1 000 group in all customers and really have that unique ability to address such a broad market having a distribution channel segment of the way they are really allow us to uniquely address to follow different market segments the way that they should be addressed and really with the distribution channels that best applied.
I think also on the marketing side having distribution channels now all under the Vonage business umbrella and all working more in a conservative way to address these market segment really allow us do a lot more on the marketing side to drive the [indiscernible] and the TDC and all of the different marketing mechanisms in a way that will allow us to address the whole market segment but all under the same umbrella through distribution channels that are really working in communism.
Thanks.
Greg.
And I have a follow-up to that marketing.
Ted Gilvar gave a interview recently I believe in advertising he was talking about some of the more aggressive things we’re planning to do from a marketing perspective.
My understanding is that there is still shifting dollar from consumer through the business side and the things he is doing talking about sound exciting aren’t necessarily going to be more expensive that are [indiscernible].
Yeah George this is Joe Redling that’s exactly right.
We are shifting the investment from consumer to fund sort of the Vonage business branding campaign that will support all of the channels we just addressed.
Okay.
Lastly like on gUnify I really like the differentiator methods and the partnership potential.
Could you give us a sense of what stage gUnify was in is it going to be GA right away and it will be exclusive to use? It is GA right now it’s end market.
The company has really very low levels of revenue so this is largely the technology platform that we’re buying and a very talented development team.
Today they have licenses to several other BroadSoft service providers and we’re going to continue to support them but we’re maintaining picking our options out.
And what we like to do ultimately is we want to own the industry standard for how you connect the Telesphere platform broadly but the underlying comp players BroadSoft to all of the relevant SaaS business applications.
And again I think we just – we create a level of differentiation which is really powerful.
Okay thanks guys.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Gregory Burns from Sidoti &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon.
In relation to the consumer business a little bit better than we were looking for this quarter but still declining I guess some of that is on delivery but I was wondering how are you positioning your tour business now is it mostly focused on international subs? What is the positioning of end market of that finalized? And then how should we think about the structural decline of that business do you foresee it finding out or reaching some level of stability in the near future? So Greg this is Alan.
I’ll start and I’ll turn over to Joe.
So the – as Dave reported this was all very purposeful and it’s simply an allocation of marketing dollars I think it was in the investment dollars to go after customers that generate the right LTV at the end of the day.
And so the management of the existing consumer business is focused on being efficient on the marketing and very – and by virtue of the marketing acquiring more productive customers that are sticky and that in a variety of other mechanisms lower the churn.
Now while we’re doing that and you’re seeing the results [indiscernible] more profitability.
While we’re doing that we are continuing to invest in product development to bend the curve back to add more values to products so that we will being to see the benefit overtime of our products being ever more attractive to the consumer population.
That’s the macro view of what we’re doing then I’ll turn over to Joe but I’m pleased that we’re beating the numbers and again it’s just the result of what we’re doing.
Yeah Greg I think the way to think about this is where as we try to drive more efficiency into the consumer business.
There is a couple lever right one is our acquisition costs right which we are really shifting to much more measurable to direct response vehicles and we’re seeing those results we’re getting much more efficient in our acquisition.
That leading to us having the ability to our channel as we optimized each of our channels whether it’s selling digital or direct mail that we can actually acquire customers that have a lower churn profile in their early stage of their life.
And as we improve that we can actually improve customer life time value.
So we’re really measuring ourselves based on customer economics going forward it’s not about how many gross lines you can apply or how many profitable customers can we acquire at the right price.
If we can deploy more resources against the business side we will do that the returns on the business side is obviously greater than what we see in consumer because of customer life with the stickiness of the business product.
To answer the first part of your question we continue to target both domestic users of VoIP and residential as well as IOB.
So that half of our base that we lead today we continue to focus the key targets on the IOB side in a particular channel that are relevant.
So we continue to focus on the optimization of our spend there.
Okay.
And then in terms of your EBITDA guidance I guess you maintained it at least $135 million for the year but based on for what you put up this quarter I guess that implies [indiscernible] that target that low end of the target of slow down or lower EBITDA for the rest of the year.
So should we like planning to increase planning to increase over the next couple of quarters? So this is Alan I made a decision and I think it was direct to maintain our underlying guidance and we’ve only adjusted it for SimpleSignal.
We have one quarter in the books and we’re making – we’re doing a significant remixing of sales and marketing.
So I think just wanted to be prudent and we’re going to maintain the existing guidance but we’re feeling good about the year.
Okay thank you.
And then our next question comes from the line of Catharine Trebnick from Dougherty.
Please proceed.
Yeah thanks for taking my question.
In the prepared remarks you said that the line something above we’re growing at 25% or was 25% of the business.
Do you have a year-over-year growth rate or quarterly query on that? Catharine it’s actually 25% of the revenues for Vonage business in Q1 came from customer with greater seats.
Okay.
Yeah a lot of that – a lot of those customers come from Telesphere which we’ve only owned for quarter and two weeks so we don’t track that year-over-year of that number remains solidly above 25% and all of the channel reorganizations and direct sales.
In general reorganizations that we talk about are meant to put on the gas in that space as well as the top market as well as the low end.
All right thanks.
And then the other question is on your direct sales and on your channel partners.
On your channel partners how many have you between Telesphere do you have now in total? And are there like large partners in that group like CDW and arrow and can you give us more background just on the channel partner I know your competitors are building off their channel partners just trying to get a magnitude of where you are with the competitive landscape.
Thanks.
Sparks why don’t you take that on the channel partners? Sure.
And Catharine we’ve been well entrenched on the indirect channel side for years and years of the Telesphere and SimpleSignal has as well.
And now we’ve also incorporated indirect channel distribution sales executives from VBS now in combined channel.
So I’ll talk about the number of agents but just to mention we have now 31 indirect channel representatives all over the country who have real strong relationships that go over years and years in the past either with our company at Telesphere SimpleSignal from the past or from prior companies and so you have deep relationships on the indirect side.
And we have master agent and really the larger agents are booked to hundred large master agents and as Alan said in the script thousands of subagents underneath those master agents.
But they are – some of the names you mentioned they are those common stuff that you would expect with the larger master agents in the country on the communication side as well as some bars.
And they have a very robust group of subagents underneath them.
And we are – we’re very well connected with them and as Alan mentioned on indirect channel expo that we have as the channel partners expo it was a very clear message to them there that Vonage means business now and we’re serious about this and they took notice and we just create traction out from the indirect partnerships we have that are very numerous.
Thank you.
Keep up the good work and I’ll talk to you after the call.
Bye-bye.
Thank you.
Thanks Catharine.
[Operator Instructions] Next question comes from the line of Mike Latimore from Northland Capital.
Please proceed.
Hi there this is Tim Klasell in for Mike Latimore.
So starting on Telesphere here can you guys just talk a little bit about the pipeline or how the backlog will remain for Telesphere now versus when it was first acquired? Sure yeah and I think as Alan mentioned and I mentioned we’re not differentiating between Telesphere and the Vocalocity and then also going forward in including SimpleSignal particularly given how we reorganize the channel for us is less about the product and the old silo workout the channels that we approach.
I think the best way to say it is we continue to believe that we’re going to have 40% organic growth in the business area which includes Telesphere SimpleSignal and VBS when you mix that all together and put those channels together and implicit in that is that the old Telesphere make a very significant contribution to that.
And we talked about that entity having had revenues in the $40 million range in 2014 and we talked about multiple which we bought it which implies revenues for that group the old group we were measuring it that way of in the mid $50 million range.
But a lot of that is going to get mixed in so we’re not tracking it the way that you asked the question.
Great okay.
And then you guys mentioned about year-over-year improvement in consumer churn I think you quote last sequentially.
Do you see that being sustainable going forward in 2015? Tim yeah this is Joe Redling.
Yes we do.
We’re seeing encouraging results both on the new customer front and our tenured base I think the optimization of the front end of our acquisition machine is as Dave mentioned in his prepared remarks we started that process in mid last year looking at our channels and really focusing in on the quality of the customers we’re acquiring and really seeing the benefits of that now.
So we expect that to continue.
Okay great.
Thank you guys.
Thanks Tim.
Our next question comes from the line of Dmitry Netis from William Blair.
Please proceed.
Good morning gentlemen.
Let me add my congrats on the good results.
Thanks Dmitry.
Couple of questions.
First of all nice pick up there on gUnify but do you discuss how much you’re paying for that platform acquisition? And then secondly they just had relationship what brings central that they’ve announced recently.
Do you plan to [indiscernible] that relationship what sort of a status there is going forward? Sure.
In terms of what we paid we’re not disclosing the actual price but it’s very small and it’s essentially the acquisition of a product and a team and the technology and I mentioned it’s not going to have a significant effect on our balance sheet one way or the other.
As it relates to and I think Alan covered it correctly in the answer of the prior question right now we don’t have plans to remove the product from anywhere that it is and it really is about making this the global standard and one of the global standards this I think has a bridge between the comp layer and the CRM layer.
Okay great.
And then on the VBS side could you talk about kind of – is there target plans for the test count additions this year if it is at all possible to share that with us that would be great.
And just to kind of get a sense of what’s base of higher units sale on that side? And then also on the sales and marketing I noticed you were down about $9 million from a year ago on the absolute dollar basis.
What were some of the drivers there that you’ve kind of cut out the – some of that sales and marketing spend and what’s the trajectory there that is going forward? Dmitry I think let me start with the second half.
Almost entirety of that reduction volume was on the consumer side sequentially down $10 million that’s a combination of kind of reduction as we said in previous calls reduction at general market media base stock continued optimization of the existing selling channel and reduction of non-working media which is sort of reset our agency relationships in Q4 and Q1.
So that’s the majority of those savings.
In terms of the Vonage business ramp up without getting any specifics on headcount we continue and invest in the sales force.
We continue to scale as well as continue to invest in infrastructure in terms of engineering to focus on continuing to improve our systems billing on boarding and etcetera to support the high growth that we’re seeing in that segment.
[Indiscernible].
I’m sorry Dmitry you broke up a little there.
Oh okay I was going to say if there is any sort of place or whether you will consider splitting up how many [indiscernible] VBS versus kind of the total company headcount? No we don’t have any plans to do that.
I think it’s fair to say that the growth in fully headcount is primarily happening there and a lot of that is within telesales which is – and to a lesser expense care which is where we’d be deploying most number of heads.
I think it’s also fair to say given the way Alan described as operating as a company that there are going to be people particularly in headquarters but in all of our locations who are going to be working on multiple products and that could be consumer that could be up market to be the smaller end which is why we’re not planning to break it out it just not possible to have a break line on lot of those people.
Okay understood thanks Dave.
And then lastly I guess [indiscernible] I know you mentioned that in the prepared remarks but what’s little confusing to me is it went up from 1.6% to 2.2% where the year ago you had Vocalocity with the SMB business and you added over mid market and you focus with Telesphere and SimpleSignal yet the churn went up.
So what is it [indiscernible] take a wild guess here but can you discuss what happened there? I’ll comment on the mass then I think Joe can comment on the qualitative fees.
The implicit in your question is that Telesphere somehow drive up the churn and that is not the case here.
Telesphere has a small number of a very small number of accounts that happened to be very large small relative to the number of Vonage consumer accounts and the number of Vocalocity accounts.
So that did not factor materially into the churn.
When we start reporting revenue churn we’ll actually – I think you’ll actually see the effect of Telesphere revenue churn is substantially lower than an account churn and I think it’ll be a much more clear metric as we add in SimpleSignal.
I think Joe can then address kind of what’s happening with the shareholder account.
Yeah so we as Alan mentioned are direct model on acquisition incredibly efficient and scalp so we’re continuing to grow the small end of the SMB market at a rapid pace.
Well we have the scale or we should continue to scale our infrastructure.
We have incredible visibility on the consumer side in terms of predictive model where we manage churn on the consumer side and what the reorganization of the company they support are leveraging all those assets across the board and very focused on the small business sector on the smaller company sizes to get much better with that.
So we are again as I said earlier investing in building systems infrastructure network monitoring everything you would think we would do as we scale that to a relatively large business.
[Indiscernible] I don’t know many guys actually do that so thanks for that.
And keep up the good work.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is a follow-up from Greg Burns.
Please proceed.
Yes just a follow-up on that last question about the churn.
You have a sense of the churn and those lower VBS customers is voluntary or involuntary is it kind of economic related? And you had a sense of where they’re reporting to if they’re leaving for another solution? Greg this is Joe.
Yeah our composition is pretty similar to last year we are still seeing a large share of our churn related to non-pay the smaller these accounts are the we’ve more business failure in this segment.
So our composition of churn hasn’t changed much so the business grows the numbers get bigger.
So we’re very focused on that drilling down on the non-pay sector.
We’re not seeing anything material on any sort of competitive switching.
Okay.
And lastly in terms of the – kind of the BroadSoft focus acquisition strategy now that you’re gaining scale and you’ve kind of made yourself like a meaningful [indiscernible] and looking to kind of roll off that market.
Are you seeing more inbound interest from some of these smaller players in the market looking for an exit strategy? And also when you’re bidding for assets are there any other maintenance [indiscernible] these BroadSoft providers? Yes I think we have very good visibility on what’s out there in the BroadSoft area particularly because Clark Peterson is head of the cloud communications alliance which is essentially the BroadSoft users group.
We had – I think that both BroadSoft users know who we are now just because of the deals that we’ve done before and we’ve also I think formed a very good working and close working relationship with BroadSoft.
So I think that gives us a lot of visibility and good connectivity with BroadSoft and these other players.
We clearly have been people who I think are more incline to try to sell because there is a bid in the market or at least they look at it that way and I think that we do continue to be a potential buyer of those assets.
I think we’ve proven that we’re going to do it if we do it on a discipline basis and we think that there were enough of amount there so we can’t do it on a discipline basis.
And that looking in that area continues to be the high priority for us.
Okay thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rollins with Citi Bank.
Please – Citigroup sorry please proceed.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Just first question is do you have a preview maybe what the revenue churn like with prices if you look at the 1Q result can you just help us [indiscernible] how to think about NRR churn or the revenue churn in aggregate? And then secondly if you just think more broadly about the sales productivity and expansion as you described in the segmentation of distribution channels.
So where would you say is [indiscernible] opportunity over the next 12 months of watching? Thanks.
So I’ll take the churn part of that.
So on the revenue churn I mentioned that it is when we look at it for 1Q it is substantially lower.
What we’re focused on is getting SimpleSignal in and being able to present to the market that calculation which I think would be most meaningful.
We’re not in a position to talk about it now but what you see obviously and we talked about it when we acquired Telesphere is that the churn in Telesphere the churn amongst larger accounts generally is lower.
And when you have a three year contract by definition with NPLS and the full bundle by definition you have much lower churn.
At the same time we’re also getting much higher ARPU at the higher level and so you can see how the dynamic between account churn which does not differentiate between an account of two lines and an account with a thousand and revenue churn and that is why it is substantially lower.
Let me take it on distribution this is Alan.
So I think the best way to think of it is where the growth is going to come from is sort of where the market is and the maturity of the different channels.
In telesales which again is principally top of the formal regional that’s converted via telesales.
There is a linear relationship in terms of how we – as we add sales infrastructure and are buying more keyword searches branded and non-branded and we’re feeling that funnel.
Interestingly we’re not limited by sales people growth the limitation is been infrastructural so that’s where we’re investing very quickly to make sure that we can support as we grow so that’s one.
So we expect telesales and continue to run really really nicely at the smaller end of the market.
As I mentioned 90% of U.S.
employer based businesses have fewer than 20 employees and they’re rapidly embracing the cloud.
I also announced that we’re moving to an online so we’ll have sales sign ups that we’ll roll out later this quarter so that we can lower our acquisition cost even more by having a fully touch list acquisition model or certain of the – with the low end of the market.
Then go now over to the channel side.
The channel side is a very mature market or a very mature distribution channel.
We’re stepping in the midst of bringing three companies together that is [indiscernible] or in aggregate 31 indirect channel managers spread across the country reporting up to four regional channel managers addressing the full swop of master agents and thousands of subagents around the country.
We’re still in midst of [indiscernible] that I’m in Africa I’m heading down to Atlanta tonight because we have a sales meeting for the indirect channel managers tomorrow at Atlanta.
So as we organize that ever more tightly we’re expecting really good results in that channel.
Finally in the direct side feet on the street for us that’s the least mature channel because we’ve had the dealers number of people but we are aggressively adding and I mentioned we’re in four markets today.
Again these people are distributed with a report to regional hubs four of those regional offices are already staffed we’ll likely have seven by end of the year these are major metropolitan markets and growing more thereafter.
Thanks for those details.
Sure.
And our next question comes from the line of Bill Vogel from Team Capital.
Please proceed.
Hi thank you.
I wanted to follow-up on the issue with master agents and other indirect channel partners.
Are you at this point continuing to add those folks or are you finding with SimpleSignal and Telesphere that you really have the number that you’re looking at? And if you are so adding is it an aggressive rate or a more relaxed based? Clark why don’t you take that? Sure.
Thanks Bill for the question.
Yes it’s really the later the master agents and what’s really been a great thing about the acquisitions that we’ve done here with SimpleSignal and the combination with VBS and direct team is actually it was very complimentary.
And so together we already cover all the main master agent all over the country.
We have really the tier master agent partners that we would ultimately want around board and [indiscernible] through these different relationships.
So really now the focus is working with both the masters and other subagents to get their mind share to help them understand our whole portfolio of products that we now offer the combined entity and really was all coming under this Vonage business brand and all the marketing behind that means to them.
And so it’s really going after them and getting the mind sharing and helping and giving them all the tools that now they have with [indiscernible] and then agent portals and all these things that we have we think that are very unique to our offering besides the products in the back office and also the network team plus with NPLS all over the country.
All these combined is an incredibly unique and powerful portfolio for them to sell so that’s really our target as to get out and help them understand what this all means to them as a partner for us.
That’s very helpful.
Bill now let me just make one follow-up.
As I said in my prepared remarks we used the term think Vonage first and it’s kind of a mantra here.
Those channel partners masters and subs call on the entire range of customers from the very small and simple to the very large and complex.
We have a product portfolio that covers the first the full range.
So we want them to think Vonage first regardless customer opportunity.
In the past if they have let’s say a large complex opportunity when Telesphere was a separate company they might think what’s called Telesphere for that one.
They might have a smaller one they might think well I’ll work with the formal Vocalocity for this one.
We brought it all together under one unified team all our unified branding in light so that they think Vonage first regardless of the customer opportunity.
Great thank you.
I’d like to take a question one step further with the SimpleSignal acquisition are they bringing characteristics or tools that help the agents think about Vonage first because many of the things that Clark you mentioned Telesphere already had.
Well Clark why don’t you answer that as well? Sure.
And really on two fronts build they brought some very unique relationships that are complimentary at the master agent level.
They actually had a deep deep long term relationship with the largest master agent in the country and so that really complimented us as well as other master agents who have that really filled any gaps that were there.
So they brought not only those distribution partners but on the product side they really bring a lot worth all of the work they’ve done with Google App work and they’ve been using gUnify in the past so they’re very familiar with gUnify and being able to get us all off the speed very quickly on that as well as on Telesphere had used gUnify in the past.
But SimpleSignal has don’t a lot of work both on all the application side as well as on video bridging and the cloud are some of the main things that they really bring from the product portfolio that we think are great in it.
And they also had just like Telesphere had a great reputation with all the indirect channel partners.
So when we at the channel show and on that day announced that Signal and Telesphere are now coming together under that Vonage umbrella brand.
It was a big message to the indirect partners so I think the roll we expected in the indirect channel partner community.
Again thank you.
And so one additional question if you look for additional acquisitions do you anticipate that they will also be able to be bring you each characteristics as SimpleSignal did or at this point does it really become a market share gain? Hi Bill I’ll take that one.
I mean clearly there is an opportunity to buy customers and potential customers accretively.
That being said most of the things that we’re looking at also have a very strategic angle to them i.e.
adding something with the SimpleSignal example is a great one with the experience with the edge router the experience in between Vonage business and Telesphere used to play as well as a broader regional presence I think is one – that’s a template for others and I think there are those out there that have strengths and capabilities that I think would be additive to us beyond the accretive customers.
We do look at it as okay if we were just buying these customers would this be a good deal and the things that we do check out box but I also think there is more strategic opportunity out there as well and with things that [indiscernible] with that both of those characteristics.
Thank you both.
Thank you.
This concludes our question-and-answer session for today’s conference.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Blankenbaker for closing remarks.
Great.
Thanks Marcus.
We really appreciate everyone’s time today and your interest in Vonage and we look forward to speaking with you throughout the quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for attending today’s conference.
This does conclude today’s program.
You may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Vonage Holdings Corporation Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Just as a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Hunter Blankenbaker VP Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Great thank you Louise and good morning and welcome to our second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Speaking on the call this morning will be Alan Masarek Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Pearson CFO.
Also joining us are Joe Redling Chief Operating Officer and Clark Peterson President of Business Solutions Group.
Alan will discuss the company’s strategy and second quarter results and Dave will provide a more detailed view of our second quarter financial results.
Slides that accompany today’s discussion are available on the IR website.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks we will be happy to take your questions.
As referenced on slide two I would like to remind everyone that statements made during this call maybe forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These and all forward-looking statements are based on management’s expectations and depend on assumptions that maybe incorrect or imprecise.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
More information about those risks and uncertainties is highlighted on the second page of the slides and contained in our SEC filings.
We caution listeners not to rely unduly on these statements and disclaim any intent or obligation to update it.
During this call we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to GAAP is available on the IR website.
And with that I would now like turn to call over to Alan.
Thanks Hunter.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
I’m excited to be with you today to discuss our Q2 results.
We’ve had a very strong second quarter highlighted by consolidated revenue of $222 million and consolidated EBITDA of $38 million a 29% year-over-year increase and our highest EBITDA in four years.
Customer churn in consumer services was 2.2% the lowest in nine years.
And Vonage business continued its exceptional performance achieving 118% of revenue growth.
These results demonstrate the successful execution of our strategy to maximize the profitability of consumer services while aggressively growing organic revenues and pursuing M&amp;A opportunities in Vonage business.
As important as these financial results in the second quarter we continued to make progress transforming our company and building the foundation for long term growth.
Last quarter I discussed with you the progress we made to establish Vonage as a leading business services brand; organizational changes to capitalize on synergies and to operate more efficiently; steps we've taken to reinvigorate the company's culture by returning it to its innovative and disruptive roots; and investments in our people so that Vonage becomes a destination place to work for the most talented among us.
These actions are integral to laying a foundation capable of supporting continued rapid growth and fulfilling our vision of becoming the market leader.
This quarter we took a number of additional steps internally and market facing to build on that foundation and to enhance our leadership position in the rapidly growing UCaaS for business market.
These included one the consolidation of the Vonage business sales force and realignment of our product set; Two the launch of a new Vonage business brand building campaign; Three the integration of the SimpleSignal and gUnify acquisitions; Four the closing of an expanded $350 million credit facility that further reduces our cost of capital and expands our war chest for future acquisitions; And five the hiring of key senior leaders to bolster our already strong leadership team.
Now with this as a backdrop let me discuss our results and strategic actions in more detail let's start with Vonage business.
Vonage business delivered another outstanding quarter demonstrating the effectiveness of our strategy to drive growth both organically and through acquisitions.
During the quarter we focused extensively on integrating Telesphere SimpleSignal and gUnify with and into the new Vonage business.
We completed the consolidation of the Vonage business sales organization and products.
We created two distinct product offerings Vonage Essentials and Vonage Premier.
Vonage Essentials comprises the products and services provided by the former local Vocalocity and Vonage Premier comprises the products and services delivered by Telesphere SimpleSignal and gUnify.
Between Vonage Essential and Vonage Premier we have a robust set of product families that are tailored to serve the full range of business segments including SMB the mid-market and enterprise.
Vonage Essentials is targeted to smaller customers and it utilizes our proprietary call processing platform its purpose built for the SMB customer.
It provides a cost effective scalable feature rich solutions that's delivered over the top of the customer’s broadband.
Vonage essentials is sold primarily to our direct telesales and online channels.
And the great strength of the Vonage brand directly contributes to our low cost customer acquisition model.
The combination of Vonage's brand awareness which is greater than 80% coupled with our highly efficient telesales model enables us to achieve very attractive subscriber economics from the SMB market.
And as I frequently remind people 90% of employer firms in the U.S.
have 24 fewer employees.
Small business is the growth engine of the U.S.
economy and we will continue to invest in this end of the market because small companies are moving to the cloud the fastest.
Our growth strategy for this segment is 100% organic and we will continue to developing our own proprietary call processing platform and sales and market infrastructure.
Our Vonage Premier offerings are tailor made for the mid-market and enterprise segments.
Vonage Premier is a feature rich wholly-managed solution that utilizes BroadSoft enterprise grade core processing platform.
It provides robust QoS calling service and is generally delivered over our national MPLS network with 18 POPS across the country.
When combined with our other cloud services and provisioned over our best-in-class proprietary support infrastructure named [indiscernible] Vonage Premier provides a compelling solutions for these larger customer segments.
Vonage Premier is sold through our indirect channel sales direct field sales and enterprise teams.
We have nearly tripled the size of our channel sales team with recent hires and the addition of channel teams from Telesphere and SimpleSignal.
We are a preferred provider for many of the largest master agents in the country harnessing a network of over 20 000 sub agents selling both Vonage Premier and Vonage Essentials.
Our ability to deliver a comprehensive set of solutions to customers across the full spectrum of size and complexity is resonating well with our channel partners.
Given our strong brand our financial strength and our excellent customer service we believe we are uniquely positioned to have our channel partners think Vonage first regardless of the size or complexity of a customer opportunity.
The creation of Essentials and Premier and the alignment of our sales force to drive the right products to the right customer are critical steps for Vonage.
By operating two platforms at scale we delivered products and solutions addressing the needs of diverse customers while maximizing our subscriber economics regardless of the segments served.
This strategy is paying off nicely as Vonage businesses organic revenue growth projected at 40% this year leads the entire UCaaS market and would place us tenth among all public SaaS companies in terms of revenue growth.
Importantly our market leading growth comes from customers both small and large.
For example in Q2 we added more than 8 000 new logos as Vonage business customers and more than 25% of Vonage business revenues came from customers greater than 50 seats.
So the changes I have just outlined these are the foundational elements necessary for our continued organic growth but they also directly support our ability to absorb new acquisitions.
We’re actively evaluating a rich pipeline of opportunities and we will continue to be a disciplined acquirer.
We’re confident in our ability to find execute and integrate accretive acquisitions that are complementary to our current portfolio.
To facilitate this inorganic strategy we announced today a new $350 million credit facility.
This facility replaces our previous $225 million credit facility and provides even greater financial flexibility and more attractive terms while lowering our cost of capital.
Combined with the cash flow from consumer services we have the capital to take advantage of multiple acquisition opportunities.
Now that the foundation of Vonage business is more established we’re increasing our investment in the Vonage business brand.
In mid-June we launched the business of Better Campaign.
This multimedia campaign is designed to harness the power of Vonage’s outstanding brand awareness yet pivot the brand in the business market.
This campaign is designed to reposition the brand for long term growth and to ensure that businesses and partners again think Vonage first when it comes unified communication needs.
We intend to accelerate our investments in our brand campaign in the second half of the year.
Finally we close on the gUnify acquisition on May 15th and our initial interest from customers has been very strong.
We anticipate that our integration with SaaS business applications like Google for Work Salesforces’ SalesCloud Zendesk Clio and others will lead even stickier customer relationships.
So to summarize the Vonage business had a great quarter we delivered exceptional results while making important progress building a strong foundation for continued market leading growth.
We enhanced our product and sales organizations began an exciting branding campaign and aligned our teams and products to better serve all segments of the market and we have the balance sheet and financial flexibility to continue to drive organic and inorganic growth in our quest to become the clear leader in cloud communications for business.
I'll now move on to consumer services where we remain intensely focused on profitability and cash flow.
During the quarter our primary effort was to improve marketing efficiency and to drive lower churn by increasing the quality of the customers we acquire.
We optimized consumer sales and marketing and lowered customer acquisition costs by reducing spend on basic talk exiting or reducing assisted selling in certain retails channels and cutting non-working and inefficient media.
In parallel we began utilizing more efficient direct response vehicles and we increased our spend in digital.
In Q2 these changes resulted in a $7 million sequential reduction in consumer services sales and marketing.
And we achieved this spend reduction while maintaining Vonage branded gross line additions essentially flat for Q1.
This $7 million reduction builds upon the $10 million reduction we achieved in Q1 of '15 sequentially versus Q4 of '14.
Our net subscriber line losses define as gross line additions less churned accounts declined for the third consecutive quarter.
Consumer account churn for the quarter was 2.2% a 40 basis point improvement over or the year ago quarter and the lowest level of churn in nine years.
This reinforces the positive impact of our customer acquisition strategy and the stability of our tenured customer base.
This churn reduction combined with lower customer acquisition cost is driving significant improvement in customer life time value.
Given these results we're confident we're taking the right steps to optimize profits in consumer services.
Now let's highlight some notable additions made this quarter to our senior leadership team.
We're building a world class team to drive execution of our strategy and in just the last few weeks we announced three key new hires.
Omar Javaid is joining us as Chief Product Officer reporting to me.
Omar is a Silicon Valley product executive with significant experience driving cloud service product offerings from concept to customer delivery.
He’s held Senior Product Management and General Management positions at Rovi HP Motorola Mobility and Qualcomm.
Omar will be responsible for Vonage's overall product strategy and he will work with teams across the organization to define and execute our product roadmap for consumer services and Vonage business as he drives further innovation in our product development.
Chris Narayanan joined as Senior Vice President of Digital.
Chris has deep experience driving digital transformation of brands and businesses.
He comes to us from JPMorgan Chase where he was the head of digital Chase card services.
He oversaw chase.com which is one of the top 20 websites in the U.S.
and prior to Chase Chris led Digital for Samsung for all of North America.
And lastly Greg Fittish [ph] joined from Google as Chief Sales Officer of our indirect channel direct deals and enterprise sales teams reporting to Clark Peterson.
Having worked with Greg at Google and Click Office for almost a decade I'm confident Greg will bring valuable leadership to our already strong sales organization and will drive further growth.
In closing we had a great quarter and I'm proud of our results.
We're executing on our plan to maximize profitability in consumer services while driving market leading growth in Vonage business.
After nine months as CEO I'm more confident than ever in our opportunity to create significant shareholder value.
We’ve laid a solid foundation from which to build a true industry leader.
With Vonage business we have an excellent position in the market and the right product suite aligned with the right sales channels to successfully attack the full spectrum of the business market.
In consumer services we've increased cash flows by sharpening our operational and marketing discipline.
Our improved profitability and cash flows enabled us to secure a larger more flexible and less costly borrowing facility which gives us further cost of capital advantages.
We have a deep and talented management team that is enormously scalable and capable of managing a company well beyond our current size.
Our results demonstrate that we've made extraordinary progress and as proud as I am of these past results I'm convinced that our best days lie ahead and I look forward to updating you regarding our continued progress.
Thanks for your time this morning and now let me turn the call over to Dave to discuss our financials in more detail.
Thanks Alan and good morning everyone.
I am pleased to review our financial results for the second quarter of 2015.
Before reviewing the results let me provide context for the numbers we’re reporting this morning.
We closed on the acquisition of SimpleSignal on April 1 and on the acquisition of gUnify on May 15 2015.
Therefore second quarter results include a full quarter of SimpleSignal a partial quarter of gUnify gUnify having no material impact on financial results.
With that let’s move to slide four.
Consolidated revenue for the second quarter was $222 million up $2 million sequentially and up $3 million year-over-year.
Vonage Business revenue grew to $49 million from $42 million sequentially reflecting another strong quarter of organic growth and the addition of SimpleSignal revenue.
Year-over-year Vonage Business organic revenue growth as if we owned Telesphere and SimpleSignal for all periods was 38% and GAAP revenue growth was 118%.
Second quarter average revenue per user and consumer was $27.79 down $0.18 sequentially and $0.23 year-over-year due primarily to continued changes in plan mix.
This decline in consumer ARPU is smaller than in the past due to improvements in the share of our gross line adds that are Vonage branded as we reduce basic talk marketing and drive fewer basic talk gross line additions.
Vonage Business average revenue per seat was $44.22 up $1.17 for the first quarter -- from the first quarter due to the addition of higher ARPU SimpleSignal customer base.
Moving to slide five customer churn in consumer was 2.2% down from 2.4% sequentially and from 2.6% in the year ago quarter.
This year-over-year improvement in consumer churn is the result of our focus on adding high value customers that have a lower churn profile as well as the stability of our tenured base.
This result demonstrates the actions we started taking last year in the assisted sales channel to support only those locations that generate the highest LTVs and the shift in consumer advertising towards more direct response media has had the desired effect.
Churn has responded well to these actions although it will continue to fluctuate based on seasonal and competitive factors.
We ended the quarter with 2 million subscriber lines in consumer down 193 000 from the prior year’s quarter excluding 79 000 paid second line extensions that we subsequently adjusted out of the line count when we began offering these extensions for free.
Consumer lines were down 45 000 for the quarter the third consecutive quarter of lower net line losses.
This net line trajectory in consumer is planned reflecting our continued focus on adding lines that meet our customer life time value objectives and our decision to redeploy capital into Vonage Business where we have higher LTVs.
As we previewed on our last call this quarter we began reporting revenue churn for Vonage Business.
We believe this metric more accurately reflects our business dynamics as we have an increase proportion of our revenue coming from larger accounts.
Revenue churn is defined as the average of the rate of total monthly recurring revenue or MRR lost from customers that terminated in the quarter and does not include upgrades or downgrades.
Because this is a new metric for comparability purposes our earnings release shows revenue churn for each of the past six quarters.
As you can see in the release revenue churn for Vonage Business was 1.3% down from 1.4% sequentially and up from 1.2% in the year ago quarter.
The increase from the prior year quarter was primarily related to the higher churn of smaller essential accounts as we’ve noted on prior calls.
The sequential decrease was driven by the increase in our base of mid-market and enterprise premier accounts which are typically on three year contracts take other sticky services such as access and have lower business failure rates.
Vonage Business grew total seats to 403 000 reflecting strong organic growth with Organic growth and net seat additions both higher than all prior periods and the addition of SimpleSignal seats.
Now moving to income statement cost items; cost of service was $64 million up from $62 million sequentially due to SimpleSignal and from $59 million a year ago due to the addition of Telesphere and SimpleSignal cost which were partially offset by continued termination cost improvements.
Turning to slide six sales and marketing expense for the second quarter was $84 million down $1 million sequentially and down $14 million year-over-year.
This decline reflects continued optimization and reduction of our consumer sales and marketing spend a focus on acquiring quality subscribers and our strategy to generate cash flow and drive growth in Vonage business.
It also includes a significant ramp in Vonage business sales and marketing cost as we build out the sales to capture the strong demand for UCaaS.
We expect to continue to reduce consumer and scale up Vonage business sales and marketing expense starting the second half of 2015.
Consumer subscriber acquisition costs were down again in the quarter consistent with the lower sales and marketing spend and shift to more efficient media channels.
General and administrative expense for the second quarter was $27 million.
This was up $4 million sequentially due to the addition of SimpleSignal and changes in stock compensation expense related to the new executives hires to which Alan referred and up $5 million year-over-year primarily from the addition of Telesphere and SimpleSignal G&amp;A expenses.
Moving to slide seven for the second quarter adjusted EBIDTA was $38 million our highest EBIDTA since 2Q 2011.
This reflects another strong quarter of cash flow generation from consumer which accounted from more than 100% of EBIDTA.
EBIDTA was flat sequentially and up 29% from $29 million in the year ago quarter the latter reflecting lower cost in termination and consumer sales in marketing.
Looking ahead we expect that both sales and marketing and cost of service expenses will be higher in the back half of the year.
The main driver will be four quarters of investments in the business of Better Brand campaign that Alan discussed.
Organic growth is our highest capital allocation priority and we believe this campaign is a very effective way to drive this growth and broaden the appeal of the Vonage brand.
In addition India termination rates have been relatively stable in the recent past have increased modestly due to a regulatory action in India.
Notwithstanding this change we continue to believe that we have the lowest cost for termination to India from the U.S.
These factors I just noted will be reflected in EBIDTA for the back half of the year but are consistent with and do not change our full year EBIDTA guidance of at least $135 million.
GAAP net income was $8 million or 0.4% per share up from $7 million or 0.4% per share sequentially and up from $6 million and 0.3% per share in the year ago quarter.
Both improvements were driven by higher EBIDTA.
Adjusted net income was $20 million and 0.09% per share flat sequentially from $20 million and 0.10% per share and up from $15 million or 0.07% per share in the year ago quarters.
The year-over-year increase was also was driven by higher EBIDTA.
The adjusted net income metric removes non-cash items such as amortization of intangibles from acquired companies and adjusts for the fact that Vonage is not a material cash tax payer due to our $640 million NOL.
Moving to slide eight CapEx for the quarter including the acquisition and development of software assets was $6 million primarily for network infrastructure and systems improvements.
This was up $4 million sequentially reflecting its seasonal nature and flat year-over-year despite the addition of two material acquisitions and corresponding CapEx.
Free cash flow we defined as net cash provided by operating activities minus capital expenditures and acquisition and development of software assets was $29 million up $11 million from the year ago quarter and up $23 million sequentially.
Adjusted EBITDA minus CapEx was $32 million down $1 million sequentially based on the higher CapEx and up $9 million or 38% year-over-year all reflecting strong cash flow generation capacity of our business.
During the second quarter we repurchased 1.2 million shares for $5.6 million under the four year $100 million authorization made at the start of 2015.
Since the beginning buyback program in August of 2012 we have repurchased 48 million shares of Vonage stock for $146 million at an accretive average price of $3.06.
We believe this program provides the right capital allocation balance and flexibility between organic investment acquisitions and buybacks.
Cash cash equivalents and marketable securities as if June 30 were $60 million including $2 million in restricted cash and $10 million of marketable securities.
Net debt was $118 million at the end of the quarter with net debt to adjusted EBITDA of 0.8 times.
As Alan noted we closed on a new $350 million credit facility earlier this week.
This expanded credit facility provides the company with enhanced liquidity and greater financial and strategic flexibility at a lower cost of capital.
In addition to expanding the facility by $125 million we've lowered our borrowing cost by 37 basis points removed limiting sub covenants so we can use all of the capital for M&amp;A up to the overall leverage limit lowered annual amortization payments on the term loan and extended maturities to 2019.
All seven existing lenders lead by JPMorgan plus three new vendors participated in it.
$250 million of the total $350 million facility is in the form of a revolving credit facility which has a very little carrying cost when not drawn and is payable anytime until maturity.
Moreover when it is fully drawn we pay interest of less than 3.5% based on current LIBOR significant cost of capital advantage in acquisitions.
We used $167 million of the proceeds to repay amounts drawn under our previous facility.
Overall we believe that our low cost-to-capital and capital resources continue to represent competitive advantages.
We put the new credit facility in place because we continue to see attractive M&amp;A opportunities in the market.
Together with internally generated cash flow we believe we have the capital to continue to build our UCaaS business organically and through acquisition.
Our near term M&amp;A focus continues to be on operators in the UCaaS space primarily utilizing the enterprise grade BroadSoft platform where we believe we can acquire customers and key sales capabilities technologies and/or geographic presence at accretive valuations.
As we enter the second half of 2015 we are excited by our organic sales momentum in business strong cash flow in consumer and high overall strategic and financial flexibility.
Thank you for your continued support to Vonage.
I will now turn the call back over to Hunter to initiate the Q&amp;A session.
Great thank you Dave.
Liz we're ready for the first question please.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from the line of Tim Horan with OpCo.
Your line is now open.
Thanks great quarter guys.
The consumer churn I know it can be volatile quarter to quarter but all the steps you've taken do you think it should continue to trend down here.
Yeah this is Joe.
We're pretty encouraged by the decline in the churn but it’s really driven by our tenured base becoming a larger percentage of our subscriber base as well as the managing the frontend on acquisition.
We typically see some shifts off seasonally in the second half of the year.
So we think the 2.2 2.3 is the right range for the business.
And on the business side are you seeing are you seeing few players were entering the market a little bit more aggressively.
Have you seen any response out of the incumbents or any increase in competition from other new entrants? Clark why don’t grab that one? Sure.
Well I think there will continue to be more and more entrants in the business side of the market but really it’s the assets that we have in place in the large areas we have between national network of 18 POPS and back office systems like Zeus [ph] that was mentioned earlier we really feel like we’re in a really unique position to create that – I am sorry that clear leadership rolled out that will be difficult for new entrants to really catch up.
But I think you’ll continue to see new entrants but not at the level that we established over many many years to create what we’ve created.
And then lastly on the EBITDA guidance it kind of calls for pretty sharp pull-off in margins on the second half of the year down to I guess 15% range from what’s been in the 17%.
Do you think that is the result of just are you going to much more aggressively spend on sales and marketing in the second half? Thanks.
Yes.
That difference is primarily tied to acceleration of brand spend which is the campaign that Alan mentioned which is specifically focused on business.
I think it will -- we believe it will have a halo effect on the overall brand.
But that is where it’s focused and we continue to see very compelling account economics on and seat economics on the business side which we believe warrants that spend.
To a lesser extent you have a small drag from India and that tends to move up and down based on prevailing rates in our MSN as well the dollar-rupee exchange rate those are two main contributors to that.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Latimore with Northland Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Yeah great.
Thanks a lot.
Excellent quarter there.
On the business side you mentioned small mid and large enterprise opportunities.
Hey guys can you talk a little bit about the enterprise segment and also what percent of revenue that? Is it as a percent of the pipeline is it growing faster or slower than the overall pipeline? Let me start with that this is Alan and I’ll turn it over to Clark.
So our view is to service the full range of the market.
The fastest growth is still among smaller companies and it stands to reason as new technologies come and the secular trend from on-prem to the cloud like all new technologies is disrupting from the bottom of the market and moving up.
So the fastest growth is on the smaller customers.
But as I mentioned more than 25% of the revenues are coming from customers with greater than 50 seats.
So the economic viability of a cloud solution versus on-prem is moving up market and we are already there with our offerings in Vonage Premier.
As you get very high upmarket into sort of the multi-thousand seats opportunity the cloud is the best alternative in very distributed environments so multi-geography but you still find on-prem is the superior solution in when you have for instance let’s say several thousand voice [ph] on one site.
Great.
And then I know you guys have done well through the master agent channel.
I guess one is that going to continue to be the main progress and two are you seeing any increasing opportunities in say the traditional on-prem VAR communities? Clark why don’t you take that? Yeah on the channel partner side yes we’ve been very successful we continue to grow that month-over-month and we continue to -- to answer to your prior question as well as you see larger enterprise adopt the cloud the distribution channel focus is also shifting in.
The channel partners are really the key distribution channel for those larger enterprises and they’re really growing in their knowledge of cloud and their desire to sell cloud.
And so being uniquely positioned with almost 20 000 sub-agents out there on the partner side it really is starting to pay great dividends on our ability to go to even the larger enterprises as we continue to grow.
On the on-prem larger priorly known as kind of InterConnect yes there continues -- it’s a shift for them as they see now really the need to move to cloud services because the customers are driving more and more to go from on-prem to cloud they’re looking for that adjustment we’re creating unique compensation models for those on-prem bars now to be able to still realize the upfront benefits they are used to as far as the commission on the similar equivalent sale although it’s all in the cloud as well as on ongoing residual.
So we do see them also moving to make that shift from on-prem to cloud.
All right thanks and just last question is the UCaaS business gross margin above or below corporate margins? It’s below.
Got it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Dmitry Netis with William Blair.
Your line is now open.
Okay thank you gentlemen.
A couple of questions.
First I know you started to report revenue churn so that’s helpful and thanks for providing for quarters the sub stat numbers there but just to kind of sort of close the loop on the customer churn that Ricky used to provide.
Did that metric improve from last quarter? We’re not reporting that metric anymore but that metric would not have been higher.
Okay all right thank you.
And then on the sales and marketing side I see what’s sort of a shift there from kind of the consumer to Vonage business.
So overtime let’s say a year from now what percent of spend will be allocated to Vonage business can that command a quarter or third or half of that overall and can you just give us a sense how aggressive or potentially the spending on the UCaaS side would be? Dmitry this is Joe.
Where we look at that every month so obviously we are going to deploy as much marketing investment on the business side as the business can handle.
We’re aggressively moving that that spend really on a monthly basis but at the same time we are seeing improvements in our cash [ph] month to month on a consumer side and becoming very efficient in managing that spend as we both reduced and shifted over the business.
So it’s kind of difficult to say what we’re shooting for as a percentage basis it’s really going to be based on the opportunity in both the businesses they deploy it efficiently in business but also to maintain our flexibility on the consumer side.
Okay all right.
And then I guess just kind of to get a sense of the M&amp;A strategy there thoughts around kind of international expansion I know you are starting to on board a little bit more larger sized customers some of them potentially are multinationals would love to sort of maybe have operations also or datacenters outside the U.S.
What’s the thought process there? Is that sort of part of the consideration issue kind of get that facility in place or the focus is solely kind of to expand in the U.S.
at the moment? Can you give us a sense for it maybe across all the different verticals? Yeah so this is Alan.
The international is clearly a consideration.
That said the growth in North America is faster and we’re feeding that growth rate quickly.
We will likely follow our multinational customers in a sense use overseas -- use those as anchor tenants so most cost effective we move overseas.
So we’ve been looking at -- we already have an office in the UK with about a dozen people a decent customer base there.
We’ve seen other opportunities on the continent.
So that is clearly in our range of view.
We’ll see how these various M&amp;A opportunities develop overtime.
Okay great and then last one just real quick.
I mean you’ve added a new CTO less than 12 months ago and there’s a new product -- two product officers that came onboard last month.
So give us a sense of what the strategy might there be on the product development side potentially cross-selling some of the UCaaS offerings SaaS like offerings into the customer base developing new sort of applications that you can cross sell across your customer installed base what are some of the thoughts there? Thank you.
So again just to clarify CPO Omar starts actually this coming week and Pablo started again about 10 months ago as CTO.
You are exactly right we see the UCaaS features cascading from business into consumer.
So that’s absolutely a design paradigm in our product development.
In business today communications are multi-mode video voice text and they are device agnostic.
We see very similar things happening in consumer.
There is also clearly mobile initiatives.
As you look at Omar’s specific background having come from Qualcomm and Motorola Mobility et cetera he is a clear expert in mobile.
So the mobilization of what we do is a very key component as well and that’s another piece of the puzzle as I think about the design paradigm.
The way we’ve described the changes in the broader consumer business as we think about them as two broad levers.
The first lever is to fix the marketing efficiency and churn vector and we spoke about that today.
That’s been very successful in all the things that I spoke about in my prepared comments.
The second lever is product and we’re building the team led by Omar to attack that.
Now it’s not just the consumer it also extends into the business side as well.
So we’re confident that in 2016 you will begin to see some interesting changes in product families that more specifically address your question.
Al; right that’s excellent thank you very much and keep up the good work gentlemen.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of George Sutton with Craig-Hallum.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Just to ask the M&amp;A a little bit different a little bit differently.
We continue to hear you are beating the bushes on the M&amp;A side certainly domestically and wondered if you could give us a perspective of the landscape are you seeing competitive deals or sellers expectations reasonable things of that nature? The situation hasn’t changed very much.
We’re still seeing a bifurcated market into which breaks into a small handful of companies that have call it more than $50 million of revenues all on BroadSoft and tend to have different regional and sales force strengths than what we have.
So very good opportunities there and then a very long tail of smaller companies in the $10 million to $20 million revenue space.
In every case what we continue to see our companies that have either founders or relatively tired investors and are growing at around market rates but in order to grow faster they need significant capital and in order to compete in this landscape which I think was referenced before need capital and cash.
So that opportunity for us and the need for them to -- for many of them to consolidate continues to be there.
I would say the dynamic of us being the best buyer also continues and essentially I think the cost of capital advantage the fact that we are a branded competitor and that others had a dis-synergy in buying these companies continues to be the case.
Not everybody is realistic on price but we believe that there are deals to be done that are very compelling and essentially are close to the value of the customer base and between synergies and what you are paying you are getting some of these other strategic benefits along with the deal and in every taste the stuff we’re looking at or the things that we’ll execute on will be substantially below where the UCaaS names trade on a revenue multiple basis in the market.
Okay thanks Dave.
We also hear from pretty much everybody in the space that the larger player certainly that are de-emphasizing SMB you obviously are not.
How much is that factored in your success? George this is Alan.
You are right the narrative in the market is to de-emphasize the SMB space and that is clearly not our narrative.
We think and it’s the first law as I said in my comments 90% of the quota based [ph] firms have 20 employees and fewer they are moving to the cloud the fastest.
The way to win in the SMB market is to have low acquisition cost which is what we have.
I think we are uniquely able to do that and we have -- the way I have often thought about it is we have a -- that we currently have a terrific sales operations but I would assume that's a replicable asset by our competitors.
What is not a replicable asset is brand and brand feeds the top of the lead gen funnel for us and that brand advantage that we have over everyone else in the market is extraordinary.
And I think that's resulted in a lower acquisition cost.
So the subscriber economics for us at the low end are terrific and that's the part of the market which is the largest and the growing the fastest.
Well yes clearly opportunities are moving up market and the LTV's there are greater because you've got less business failure long-term contracts et cetera and we've got -- and we're already there.
We have a huge presence with now our Vonage premier family at the upper end of the market.
So our strategy is to serve both ends and I think we're uniquely positioned to do both ends profitably the way we've addressed the market as I spoke about in my comments.
Okay appreciate that.
One other thing Alan you obviously do not accept the long-term demise of the consumer business and instead I know have expectations that one day could grow again.
Can you discuss any potential pivots you've made there that you're seeing some green shoots or some opportunities to grow that business? Sure as I mentioned just a few moments ago there is a two broad levels which is the marking efficiency and churn vector and then the product side.
The marketing efficiency and churn side is not just a cost play.
Clearly there is a cost element.
We want to get rid of marketing dollars that were being spent unproductively and we've done so.
But by virtue of reformatting from [indiscernible] based now the direct response in digital and consumer the CACs are coming down such that you begin to consider putting your foot back on the gas because the ratio of the LPV to CAC comes back in line.
Again a year ago it was out of line.
But it is increasingly coming back in line.
So that's a clear piece of the puzzle.
Remember we added quarterly over the last three quarters pushing towards the 100 000 gross line additions each quarter.
So it’s not like it’s going completely away by any stretch of imagination.
So that’s one piece of it.
The other side of it is the product side.
And as I mentioned before the reason we reorganized the product group and brought in Omar as Chief Product Officer to help drive it is because we see opportunities to extend UCaaS product solutions down towards the consumer other mobile solutions.
There are overriding things that I’m not comfortable sharing at this moment that I think could be those issues.
We are not going to see the results on the product changes until end of 2016 clearly.
But you are already seeing these grey [ph] issues if you will on the marketing efficiency and churn back.
Okay perfect thanks for addressing that.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Catharine Trebnick with Dougherty &amp; Company.
Your line is now open.
All right.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Nice quarter.
Could you please give us the growth rate between year-over-year on the Essential and the Premier businesses? We don’t break that out.
What I can tell you to give you a little bit more detail is that the 38% organic growth rate that we talked about was diluted by the addition of SimpleSignal.
When we acquire a company in every case the company is not growing at 40% and is not growing as fast as it will grow under us.
So when we do an acquisition you see a lowering of the growth rate and obviously an increase in the -- of the organic growth rate and an increase in revenue.
So without the addition of SimpleSignal i.e.
with the assets that we had going into the year although we just acquired Telesphere between Telesphere and the old VVS growth would have been above 40% if that gives you a sense of the two products.
And I think Alan did say that the lower end of the market is adopting cloud faster.
It's also a much shorter lead time to add a customer at the lower end of the market or on the essentials product.
Alright that's very helpful thank you.
And then the other question actually goes into a question on integration and how the back office is coming together.
Because while we're very impressed by your growth rate I just would like to see them continue and are there any challenges you're having in any of the integration aspect of this? Thanks.
Thanks Catharine it’s Alan again.
We have challenges everyday and integration is a lot of work.
And I always refer to it as the sausage making.
And what people don't see behind the curtain is think about some of the detail things you have to do when you are bringing businesses together.
Particularly so think about VVS [indiscernible] and SimpleSignal each has a separate contract with many of these master agents.
They pay their sales people differently they commission the channels differently.
They sold each of their products under a company brand that were each themselves a bit different.
They might have had in certain instances different billing systems different lead generation systems on down the list.
So we are organized.
We have been very effective and it is under Joe's leadership to drive out the differences and to create the commonality in what is now Vonage businesses.
So what I spoke about in my comments were that foundational work that we've done in the quarter is just essential.
It is essential in order for us to be able to continue to grow organically.
But it also is necessary and essential in order to do yet again another acquisition.
Because we have to have a stable base to bring in into.
We’re getting there very quickly but it's something we tack at every day.
All right thank you.
I'll pass I’ll tuck in the after call.
Thanks.
[Operator Instructions].
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rollins with Citi.
Your line is now open.
Hi thanks for taking the questions.
I just for little bit detail can you describe the number of subscriber adds and business in the quarter that were attributable to the acquisitions and also the same for the revenue in the quarter how much was acquired.
And then also if you could give us just an update on what the OIBDA or EBITDA however you want to say it how the OIBDA burn is in business versus the cash flow in consumer specifically for the second quarter.
Thank you.
Sure I can try to address that.
So that net is -- the seat net additions that we report quarter in business or that the net organic additions of the business.
So the absolute count of seats includes at the end of the quarter includes SimpleSignal but the net additions do not include that.
So that you can get the exact number on how many actual seats we added that way.
We talked about SimpleSignal adding about $12 million of revenue in the three quarters of this year.
So its contribution in the second quarter was slightly less than a third of that just given that it is growing and I did give you the math of how we will have grown in the 40s without the dilution of SimpleSignal which again we believe overtime with capital and our strategy we can reaccelerate.
Your second question which was the burn on EBITDA per business I would tell you that the margins for consumer business are in the 20s in the 20% range which we think speaks to the long term margin typicality of that business.
So EBITDA in business continues to be slightly negative.
We also have the brand spend which we believe will actually benefit our entire business although it is more focused on the business side.
But that’s something that we’re looking at more from a corporate perspective in terms of the spend.
I'm sorry maybe I just missed it.
I think I saw year-over-year number but sequentially for the net ads the net ads were I think in business was roughly 60 somewhat thousand maybe close to 65 is that right? Yes so net… There was some net change in seat and I'm curious what was the organic portion of that versus the acquired portion of that? So seat if you look at what we reported externally seats net additions were 20 000 in Q4 26 000 in Q1 and 29 000 in Q2 that’s all organic.
Okay thank you that’s really helpful.
And then just finally were there any pricing actions taken in the consumer business changing fees or pricing to help revenue within that segment or is that anticipated for the future? There’s been no price actions taken and at this point we don’t have any price actions anticipated in the second half.
Thanks very much for the detail.
Thanks Mike.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Burns with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Two questions on the consumer side of the business with the wireless carriers like T-Mobile going with kind of open border calling and AT&amp;T moving towards kind of a pan North American network do you foresee that creating any headwinds for your consumer business and particularly your long distance calling segment that your consumer base your subscriber base and maybe what percentage of your long distance callers actively call Mexico or how much volumes over your network goes to Mexico? Yeah Greg this is Joe.
So we’ve seen these promotional plans before and typically what the impact passage is typically short lived especially on the wireless side because there is a lot of fraction in terms of changing wireless plans for customers and the customers that are -- are tenured customers on IOB are very engaged high percentage of extension users on mobile they’re very engaged in the business.
We track this very carefully when we see these promotional plans come out both on the wireless side and the cable side.
And we have obviously a lot of actions we can take in terms of retention programming but we watch it very carefully and we in terms of the geographic regions where some of these aggressive offers are is a very limiting component in terms of our subscriber base.
So some of these aggressive offers really would impact 1.5% of our subscriber base.
So we feel we still have to scale to manage it going forward.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Dezellem with Tieton Capital Management.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Two questions.
First of all you talked about the business margin being not negative but certainly less than corporate average.
Do you see any reason that overtime that business margin cannot be above the current corporate average? Generally no.
I think that fundamentally the cloud or the UCaaS business has the potential the capability to have a higher margin higher gross margin in the consumer business.
The only caveat to that is the fact that there is an element of access in our revenue but for business this year we’ve talked about access in low teens percent of the revenue and by definition when you offer access you get a three year contract and quantitatively and qualitatively you get a very very sticky low churn customer.
So that continues to be a good trade.
That is that the access piece would be the only kind of structural difference there.
Otherwise it ought to be able to be higher.
I would note that today we think we are very good at provisioning access because of the past we have and the relationships we have with a number of carriers.
That being said I think we've only scratched the surface on the synergy potential there as it relates to Vonage as a consolidated entity and our overall relationships with these carriers and what we can do on the access side versus what others can do.
Let me just add this is Alan one point.
The subscriber economics were better in business.
It simply and other than the one structural component that Dave just spoke about in access it simply a scale issue in terms of the ability to generate that profitability.
You got over 2 million subscribers on the consumer side and you have 200 000 end points on the consumer side and 400 000 on the business side.
The proportion of new -- current year adds in business are far greater than the total than the proportion of current year adds in the consumer side and obviously in your current year ads and these subscription business you are upside down in the current year.
So as the base gets larger in business given that the individual subscriber economics are higher you'll see we believe greater profitability in the business over time at scale only caveat being this issue [ph] on access.
And that may have -- that's actually good segue to timing.
Talk of two assets [ph] you were pleased about kind how you are thinking about the timing of achieving that profitability and then in contrast to the land grab that you are in right now and how all that how do you see that playing out? Sure.
I mean sitting here today it's speculation because as you said we are in the land grab and we are monitoring subscriber economics and cost per ad very closely.
As always we continue to see even close to what we are seeing today in terms of attractiveness well that means we are still on the land grab and it's still very attractive and we've got the capital to fund that and we will clearly give guidance for '16 in early '16.
All that being said sitting here today I would say that we're not expecting any EBITDA contribution out of the business-business next year and I look at that as a breakevenish type proposition because we're going to continue foot on the gas because of our size we're naturally going to have a better margin than we have today.
So we're going to have some natural benefit in there that ought to -- again sitting here today have us in the breakeven area and we believe in '17 again primarily based on size and scale not so much the market slowing down that we will be producing EBITDA out of our business to business and have a significantly sized business.
I would also note as you think about scale we got to think about M&amp;A where we expect that we will be participating in M&amp;A in the near to medium term and so you have the organic growth which has a [indiscernible] trajectory but scale wise you should expect that there will be some more revenue to have.
Therefore some margin opportunity being added as well.
That's very helpful.
Thank you and then on an entirely different front have any of the Telesphere capabilities been dropped into the new essentials product.
Bill maybe this is Alan there are different platforms.
So not from a specific product point of view.
Clark if you can add there? Well I just think it's more of as Alan said earlier it's really that product mix.
We really sell them as a complete solution and we're seeing even at a single customer level most have multiple occasions and want both the essential products at smaller offices and want the premier products at larger offices.
So we really look at them as a single product both utilizing the legacy Telesphere platform that created as well as the legacy platform of Vocalocity.
That is helpful but let me try the question also from a slightly different angle which is inspite of the fact that you're on two different platforms was there a recognition that the old Vocalocity or now essentials really was missing some characteristics that -- or capabilities of Telesphere that now Premier has that you wanted to get to incorporate it into that essentials product that you now have there.
So let me grab that real fast.
Generally know that the key thing to understand is that we think that each platform is purpose built for the market it serves.
So rather than having trying to have one size fits all which we don't think is appropriate we've attacked the market with two platforms at scale.
Where we get great efficiencies is in distribution.
Clark owns all the direct sales and other regional channel managers [ph] supporting all the mass regions.
And those respective sales people in their sales bag is both essentials and Premier because they're calling on customers regardless of size.
I would add Bill understanding your questions there are products we now overlay from our legacy portfolio between -- for those customers across the board like video bridging that we're able to overlay regardless of Vonage Essentials being their core product collaboration product swap collaboration products and then certainly gUnify what that acquisition overlays across both products.
So some of those things both from legacy Telesphere as well as gUnify are now complementary to that Vonage Essentials product.
And I'm showing no further questions on the phone lines at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back to Hunter Blankenbaker for closing remarks.
Okay great thank you.
That does conclude our call for today and we look forward to speaking with everyone next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Vonage Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your first speaker for today.
Hunter Blankenbaker you have the floor sir.
Great thanks Andrew and good morning everyone and welcome to our third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Speaking on our call this morning will be Alan Masarek Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Pearson CFO.
Also joining us are Joe Redling Chief Operating Officer and Clark Peterson President of Business Solutions Group.
Alan will discuss the company’s strategy and third quarter results and Dave will provide a more detailed view of our third quarter financial results.
Slides that accompany today’s discussion are available on the IR website.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks we will be happy to take your questions.
As referenced on slide two I would like to remind everyone that statements made during this call maybe forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These and all forward-looking statements are based on management’s expectations and depend on assumptions that maybe incorrect or imprecise.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
More information about those risks and uncertainties is highlighted on the second page of the slides and contained in our SEC filings.
We caution listeners not to rely unduly on these statements and disclaim any intent or obligation to update them.
During this call we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to GAAP is available on the IR website.
And with that I would now like turn to call over to Alan.
Thanks Hunter.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
It’s hard to believe it’s been just one year since I joined Vonage as CEO.
Actually tomorrow is one year anniversary.
In just that one year we’ve made extraordinary progress executing on our strategic plan to aggressively grow revenue in Vonage business and to release the inherent profitability in consumer services.
Our results for the third quarter and year-to-date reflect the strong progress and the conviction in our strategy.
We’ve now grown consolidated revenues for three consecutive quarters led by the aggressive growth of Vonage business revenues.
Our organic growth rate in Q3 for Vonage business was 36% excluding iCore which we owned only for the last four weeks of the quarter.
Vonage business revenues are expected to comprise more than 30% of total revenues in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to 11% in the year ago quarter and virtually zero just two years ago.
In the disciplined operational and financial actions we’ve taken to optimize consumer services are yielding very strong results.
Consolidated EBITDA increased 24% year-to-date versus last year.
Churn in consumer services decreased to 2.3% from 2.6% in the year ago quarter and the strong cash flow from consumer services continues to support our investment in growth in the rapidly expanding UCaaS for business sector.
On last quarter’s call I discussed the foundation building we undertook at Vonage business to build a scalable efficient organization capable of supporting continued rapid organic growth and to successfully absorb future acquisitions.
This includes functionalizing the overall organization to operate more efficiently reduce redundancies improve collaboration across teams and execute new initiatives more quickly.
We also discussed the creation of our two product families Vonage Essentials based on our proprietary call processing platform that is purpose built for the SMB market and Vonage Premier based on Broad Soft’s called processing platform which serves larger customers from the mid market up through large enterprises.
This broad product suite enables us to deliver the right communication services to the right customer with a value proposition that is simply better the key word is better.
And in the third quarter we broadly launched our business of better campaign to further establish Vonage as the leading business services brand.
This campaign is positioning us a technology leader that delivers innovative unified communication services and as a market leader serving the full range of businesses and enterprises.
Given the great strides we’ve made in Vonage business it was particularly rewarding that our rapid growth and progress in UCaaS sector was recognized by multiple industry analyst firms this quarter.
Gartner named Vonage a visionary in its 2015 Magic Quadrant a particularly impressive achievement given that this was Vonage’s inaugural appearance in a Magic Quadrant.
Vonage was also awarded Frost &amp; Sullivan’s 2015 Growth Excellence Leadership Award for hosted IP and Unified Communications and collaboration services.
Vonage scored the highest among all providers ranked by Frost &amp; Sullivan.
And based on Frost &amp; Sullivan’s market share analysis Vonage is now the second largest UCaaS provider in North America among all UCaaS participants including the peer [ph] plays and the large telcos and cable companies.
And remember we had zero market shares less than 24 months ago.
We’ve also made great progress over the last year reinvigorating the company’s culture with a focus on relentless innovation and a commitment to allow [ph] our customers.
We are making the right investments in our people and we brought in additional exceptional talent and product marketing and business execution.
A renewed spirit is permeating throughout the organization.
We are proud of our employees and how they have embraced sweeping changes throughout our company.
With that as a backdrop let’s move onto our third quarter results and strategic actions in more detail beginning with Vonage business.
Vonage business revenue for the third quarter was $57 million representing 134% year-over-year revenue growth on a GAAP basis.
As we discussed last quarter integration of our recent acquisitions continues to be a key priority and I am very encouraged by our progress.
We are intently focussed on operational clarity and efficiency throughout Vonage business by moving the common systems network platforms and product catalogs while fully leveraging the Vonage brand and creating a one Vonage culture.
On August 31 we closed on the acquisition of iCore Networks.
The additions of iCore to Vonage business solidifies our already strong position in the mid market and enterprise segments and enhances our ability to folk [ph] serve the full spectrum of the UCaaS market.
iCore is also a compelling strategic fit for three key reasons.
First iCore leverages the same BroadSoft core processing platform with which we have deep experience and iCore was among the largest private BroadSoft service providers in our industry.
Second iCore expands our field sales force particularly on the East coast.
We now have a large national sales footprint and the right balance of channel and field sales as well as a national accounts team focussed on large enterprises.
This sales organization nearly 200 people strong enables us to effectively reach and serve the rapidly growing up market UCaaS segments.
And third iCore expands the Vonage product suite in important ways.
We can now offer a comprehensive Microsoft Skype for Business Solution by integrating our cloud voice services into an existing Microsoft on-premise solution or hosting a complete Skype for Business Solution in the Vonage Cloud.
We can also increase valet share with new customers as well as our existing customer base of more than 60 000 businesses by offering complimentary cloud services such as infrastructure as a service and virtual desktop.
We now have the largest multi channel distribution platform in our industry to serve the full range of business customers.
In addition to the nearly 200% channel and field sales team mentioned earlier we now have another -- we have another 150 inside sales professionals selling to FMBs.
During the quarter these teams added more than 8 500 new business customers that’s new logos.
For many of our FMBs more than 30% of Vonage business revenues are from business customers with greater than 50 seats and we expect this percentage to increase again here in Q4 as we get benefit from a full quarter of iCore.
As you might recall in announcement with the iCore 60% of its revenues come from customers with a 100 seats or greater.
For these larger customers what really differentiates Vonage is the combination of our sales force and technology platform with our product and service delivery organizations to provide an unparalleled communications solutions which we branded as Vonage Premier.
Vonage Premier is purpose built for the up rise of the market providing a complete set of enhanced voice data and video services delivered over our nationwide 20 POP MPLS network.
Customers value our proprietary provisioning and feature management tools named Zeus [ph] which enables the rapid deployment of solutions directly by Vonage and our channel partners or directly by our customers.
And rounding out our solutions we use our gUnify middle ware layer to integrate communications with the core SaaS based business applications that companies use as part of their everyday work flow such as Google for Work Salesforces Zendesk and others.
Bringing all of these capabilities together is our robust service delivery team comprised of more than 80 team members specializing in project management voice and data provisioning and line of reporting.
This team is intensely focussed on providing an outstanding customer experience and is rapidly becoming a critical competitive differentiator.
In fact Gartner noted account management and customer support as two of Vonage’s strength in its recent Magic Quadrant report.
We believe the ability to effectively meet the needs of mid market and enterprise customers with a [Indiscernible] solution while delivering a forward [ph] installed experience is critical to building customer loyalty and winning at the higher end of the market.
Remember our goal is for our value proposition to simply be better.
We are using our company scale and focus to assemble the product technology network and service delivery personnel and infrastructure to just be better.
And very importantly our opportunity to be better is structural because others will struggle to match our value proposition because they are either much smaller unprofitable underfunded or many instances simply unfocussed because UCaaS offerings are not their highest strategic priority.
Rest assured UCaaS is our highest strategic priority.
Let me now move on to consumer services.
Within consumer we continue to see the benefit of our focus on improving the quality of customers we acquire lowering our acquisition cost and driving increasing profitability.
One element of this effort is the launching of a grab and go [ph] merchandising strategy and retail that further reduces our use of face to face assisted selling.
This revised approach has resulted in improved placement and expanded locations with our key retailers.
We are also better leveraging the power of the Vonage brand.
We are eliminating the basic top brand and product.
Actually the basis top product is being flushed through retail channels now and it should be completely gone by the end of the year.
In addition to benefits derived from this new retail strategy our continued shift of spending to more efficient acquisition channels like direct respond television and digital has resulted in improved marketing efficiency again this quarter.
Overall we reduced sales and marketing spending in consumer services by another $4 million sequentially.
Over the last four quarters we’ve reduced sales and marketing in consumer services by $29 million.
And despite these enormous cuts in marketing spend Vonage branded gross line additions or GLAs remained essentially flat over the last four quarters.
As a result our customer acquisition cost per GLA was 27% lower in Q3 of 2015 than it was in Q3 of 2014.
And with churn at 2.3% versus 2.6% we’ve increased customer life by five months or close to another $100 in service margins.
This means we are spending much less to add customers with longer lives and greater life time values.
These results reinforce our conviction that we can continue to generate excellent cash flows from consumer services for many years and importantly these cash flows will continue well beyond the time we begin to generate substantial profitability from Vonage business.
Today we serve almost 2 million residential customers from which we generate all of Vonage’s cash flow.
This cash flow is a key competitive differentiator particularly against our private and public peer play competitors.
To summarize Q3 was another great quarter highlighted by strong performance further foundation building at Vonage business the closing of the iCore acquisition and continued focus on profitability and consumer services on almost any measure we are executing well against our strategic priorities and we have a terrific set of critical core assets.
These include our stellar brand larger revenue base; company scale and balance sheet strength as compared to other peer [ph] play UCaaS providers.
Our leadership position in Unified Communication sector where we are ideally if not uniquely positioned to serve all segments of the markets.
Our talented management team which has the right experience to lead Vonage forward in its next stage of growth and finally a culture that is being reshaped emphasize innovation accountability and a core focus on vowing the customer.
We are really pleased with our results and progress to date but we have very high aspirations so there is much more work to do.
I look forward to updating you again next quarter on our continued progress.
Thanks for your support and I’ll now turn the call over to Dave to review our financial results in more detail.
Thanks Alan and good morning everyone.
I am pleased to review our financial results for the third quarter of 2015.
Before reviewing the results let me provide context for the numbers we’re reporting this morning.
We closed on the acquisition of iCore on August 31st.
Third quarter results therefore include approximately four weeks of iCore’s financial results further adjusted down for purchase accounting.
Given the short time period and the adjustment iCore’s results had a modest impact on our financials.
Additionally the quarterly growth rate disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks or on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.
With that let’s move to slide four.
Consolidated revenue for the third quarter was $223 million up $9 million.
Vonage Business revenue was $57 million or GAAP growth of 134% and organic growth of 36% if we owned Telesphere and SimpleSignal for the same periods in the previous year.
Third quarter average revenue per line in consumer was $27.38 down $0.22 due primarily to promotional pricing.
Vonage business average revenue per seat was $41.56 up from$35.39 due to our acquisition and subsequent organic growth in the mid market and enterprise phase starting last December.
Moving to slide five customer churn in consumer was 2.3% down from 2.6% in the year ago quarter.
This year-over-year improvement in consumer churn is the result of our focus on adding high value customers that have a lower churn profile as well as the stability of our tenured base.
We expect churn to continue to fluctuate based on seasonal and competitive factors with the stay in this general range.
We ended the quarter with 2 million subscriber lines in consumer down 199 000 excluding 79 000 paid second line extensions that we adjusted out of the line count after we began offering these extensions for free in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Sequentially net lines and consumer were down 50 000 in the quarter consistent with our expectations and reflecting relatively flat gross lines added slightly higher churn due to seasonality.
As Alan noted the flat GLAs on lower consumer sales and marketing expense and infact customer acquisition cost per line continued to decline.
Revenue churn for Vonage business was 1.3% flat year-over-year and sequentially.
Vonage business grew total seats to 514 000 more than double the prior year reflecting acquisitions and continued strong organic growth.
Now moving to income statement cost items; cost of service was $67 million up from $56 million due to higher cost for telephony service and a greater number of business seats.
For [ph] context one year ago our Vonage business operation consisted only of the former Vocalocity operating in the SMB space and our seat count with less than half its current size.
Turning to slide six sales and marketing expense for the third quarter was $88 million down $5 million.
This decline reflects continued optimization and reduction of our consumer sales and marketing spend partially offset by continued investments in our Vonage business organic sales and marketing initiatives.
Consumer subscriber acquisition costs were down again in the quarter consistent with the lower sales and marketing spend and the shift to more efficient media channels.
On a sequential basis sale and marketing was up $4 million reflecting the addition of iCore and increased spend behind our business a better campaign to fill the Vonage business brand.
We launched this campaign late in 2Q and as discussed on our last earnings call increased spend in 3Q consistent with our second half 2015 marketing plan.
General and administrative expense for the third quarter was $29 million.
This was up $5 million reflecting the addition of Telesphere SimpleSignal and iCore G&amp;A expenses as well as acquisition related expenses.
Moving to slide seven for the third quarter adjusted EBIDTA was $34 million a 13% increase.
This reflects another quarter of strong cash flow from consumer which accounted for more than 100% of EBITDA.
Sequentially EBITDA was down $4 million due to the previously mentioned increase at grand spanned in Vonage business.
Adjusted net income was $14 million or $0.07 per share flat to the year ago quarter.
The adjusted net income metric removes non-cash items such as amortization of intangibles from acquired companies and adjusts for the fact that Vonage is not a material cash tax payer due to our $640 million NOL.
Moving to slide eight CapEx for the quarter including the acquisition and development of software assets was $10 million primarily for network infrastructure and systems improvements.
This is up from $7 million due to acquisitions and licensing cost.
Free cash flow which we define as net cash provided by operating activities minus capital expenditures and acquisition and development of software assets of $28 million up $7 million.
Adjusted EBITDA minus CapEx was $24 million up $2 million or 7% all reflecting a strong cash flow generation capacity of our business.
During the third quarter we repurchased 400 000 shares for $1.8 million under the four-year $100 million program authorized at the start of 2015.
Since beginning the repurchase of stock in August 2012 we've brought back 48 million shares of Vonage stock for $148 million at a highly accretive average price of $3.08.
Our buyback has provided strong returns for shareholders and will continue to be a flexible capital allocation tool to be deployed at management discretion.
Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities as of September 30 were $72 million including $3 million in restricted cash and $10 million in marketable securities.
Net debt was $185 million and we ended the quarter with net debt to adjusted EBITDA of 1.3 times.
The increase in net debt is attributable to the $92 million of cash acquisition of iCore which we finance through the combination cash on the balance sheet and a portion of our $350 million credit facility.
We acquired iCore at an attractive valuation representing a multiple of 1.3 times 2015 revenue.
As we execute on our acquisition and integration strategy we expect to achieve approximately $5 million of annual operational synergies leveraging our much larger scale and robust technology platform including in the areas of cost of telephony services which include carrier and excess cost and E911 expenses as well datacenter consolidation shipping and G&amp;A.
Given the strong cash flow dynamics of consumer services and the capital available under our revolving credit facility we have ample liquidity to pursue further disciplined organic and inorganic growth.
We continue to actively assess M&amp;A opportunities in the UCaaS space that provide the right strategic fit at attractive valuations.
Our primary focus is on providers that utilize the enterprise grade BroadSoft platform where we believe we can accretively acquire customers and key sales capabilities technologies and/or geographic presence.
Regarding guidance given greater visibility as we approach the end of the year and the closing of the iCore acquisition we are updating and have increased our full year revenue and adjusted EBITDA guidance for 2015.
We now expect revenue for 2015 to be between $891 million and $895 million.
This is up from original full year guidance of $850 million to $865 million which has been adjusted several times for acquisitions.
We expect adjusted EBITDA to be in the range of $142 million to $144 million versus original guidance of at least $135 million.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
Thank you for your continued support of Vonage.
And I will now turn the call back over the Hunter to initiate Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Dave.
Andrew let's take the first question please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of George Sutton from Craig-Hallum.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Nice job guys.
So relatively the marketing efficiencies which have been very impressive how much further can that be improved in your view? Thanks George.
Let me turn over to Joe to answer that.
Hi George.
I think we can still show some additional efficiencies; I think Alan mentioned in his prepared remarks our shift in retail to a grab and go strategy which is really Vonage on the shelf versus our face-to-face selling.
That just launched in October so we're expecting both improved efficiency on the acquisition cost side.
And those customers have proven to be – have greater lifetime value because their churn profiles are lower.
So we think we have more efficiency to go and we'll see more that in the fourth quarter.
Now relative to the iCore acquisition you mentioned given some of their capabilities you see an ability to increase wallet share of customers could you quantify what you mean by that statement? George this is Alan.
We really can't quantify yet other than to say that iCore has a cloud business which augments its traditional UC business principally selling infrastructure of service and virtual desktop.
The opportunity for us is to extend that across the whole base of customers.
We haven't even begun that process yet.
Obviously we just closed on this company seven weeks ago but that we believe enormous opportunity to push those wallet share opportunities across the whole base.
Got you.
Okay.
Lastly Dave did you give an organic growth number for business if you did apologize I missed it? Yes.
We did.
So for the quarter it was 36% excluding iCore which we only own for four weeks and had a purchase accounting adjustment down to the revenue as well.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Latimore from Northland Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
It’s Matt's brother Mike here.
I guess Alan you done a great job of improving the efficiency of the consumer business.
I think historically you've talked about the potential to stabilize that and grow the topline.
I guess any general thought about in kind of the consumer strategy here? Yes.
When I talk also often about in the fixed to the consumer business I refer to it as sort of two broad levers.
The first lever is that marketing efficiency and churn lever and the other is core product itself.
So we've been attacking the marketing efficiency and churn massively and Joe just comment on that.
We think we have more to go there.
Concurrently on the product side we just hired new Chief Product Officer Omar Javaid we've just started less than three months ago.
And we're focused on innovation.
Principally around areas in mobile that we think we can bring greater value to the residential customer.
Remember end of the day we're all UCaaS customers.
Today we sell to that residential customer.
It is multimodal its voice and text.
It's also multi devices because it's your land line phone as well your mobile phone.
So we've been looking at opportunities to bring a different value proposition to the residential customer but you won't see any of that effort materialize until next year.
Okay.
Got it.
And then on the cost of telephony services per line I guess what's the general view on that the next couple of quarters? Sure.
And that's not a metric we report anymore because consumer line and business theater apples and oranges and in fact an essential seat and premier seat are apples and oranges.
I would say that we're having just acquired iCore and having not acquired simple signal too long ago.
Over the long term there is more to do on cost.
And specifically as it relates to some of the less termination specific CaaS [ph] cost.
So for instance access cost backhaul cost things like that were the companies we acquired really didn't have much of any scale.
So I think over the short term you going to see when iCore gets added in you're going to see cost go up just because we're going to have full quarter of that but I think over the medium term you're going to see the per line or the efficiency of cost come back down and I think we'll be in a position when we get 2016 guidance to give you more detail on that.
Great.
And just you mentioned the field sales force inside sales force do you expect to add to that or would you just – would that be sufficient to kind of grow the business and then maybe layered on more through acquisition? The answer is a little bit of both.
So we clearly expect to continue to grow the sales force.
We tend to think of it the old adage of an NFL cities and strategy in terms of how we grow.
An iCore was the huge contributor to that that created this balance.
We were on the premier side principally channel-based because that was the focus of Telesphere and Simple Signal and iCore was the inverse of that.
They were almost all direct base.
But we'll continue to grow our direct sales force organically into additional cities.
Concurrent with that that's one of the reasons – one of the strategic reasons that we might do another acquisition because they give us strength in a market that we can do – the acquisition opposed to having to do on pure Greenfield basis.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Great quarter than last year really.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Catharine Trebnick from Dougherty &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
This is Jack on line for Catherine.
Thanks for taking my call and congrats on another great quarter.
Can you give us a quick update on the integration of iCore networks I know that some revenue is expected in Q4 but when can we expect that acquisition to really start hitting on our full cylinders? Yes sue.
So it relates to some of the low hanging fruits on termination cost of telephony services shipping E911 you'll start to see that stuff relatively quickly and that's built in to our $5 million of synergies in 2016 that we think we'll realized.
I think more broadly as it relates to growth the asset clearly like many of – like all of our acquisitions since Vocalocity is growing slower than we are.
So it is going to take some time to accelerate the growth of iCore so you won't see that in the fourth quarter.
But what we're really doing is implementing a strategy to accelerate the growth of what we bought but also take what's great about iCore which is direct sales force broader product capabilities and spread that much more widely.
So it's going to be integrated very quickly from that perspective and essentially is a direct sale the hub of our direct sales strategy in the NFL cities that Alan talked about in addition to our sales channel approach.
Jack this is Alan.
Let me add little bit to that.
So you know I talked about last quarter the theme was really all about the foundation building and that continues today.
So when you ask the question about integration what we're doing is the foundation building is to establish the bases by which we bring additional acquisitions into.
What I mean by that is organizationally we're functionalized organization structure so as example all sales and marketing customer care and global operations report Joe.
Everyone of these acquisitions I mentioned in my prepared remarks about the common platforms and systems and harmonizing the product catalog those are all essential elements of foundation building.
So that – now you have one solid base that we can growth to it goes all the way through our lead generation system is sales force our financial accounting system is Oracle.
Our billing system is engage IP and BroadSoft side et cetera et cetera putting everybody on those systems and one nice thing is that many of these acquisitions are already on those system so it makes integration that much easier.
Those were all the elements that in my experience where people get – where CEOs get tripped up because acquisitions aren't properly integrated and we're focused very intensively not letting that happen here.
Great.
Thanks for taking my call.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Burns from Sidoti &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Just a question on the possibility of the business segments I guess its operating at a slight loss right now.
It would be a pretty decent scale probably over 100 or 300 million of revenue next year.
How should we think about the profitability of that segment progressing into 2016 and beyond? Sure.
So as we talked about we think we're building significant operating leverage point one.
Point two; we will get specific 2016 annual guidance on that issue as well as the other parameters in our February call.
That being said we believe we are going to be more profitable in that business than we have been IE we will be narrowing the loss to breakeven in that business.
We're still going through our 2016 budgeting process now to tell that in exactly.
I would not expect significant EBITDA to come out of that business.
In 2016 however we continue to see the customer economics that we're seeing now.
Okay.
And then when we look at Vonage premier can you give us a sense of the complexion of that customer rates maybe the size of the customers that you're adding or what your largest customer you're serving there.
We've seen some kind of – some large customer announcement from some of the competitors.
I just wanted to get a sense of what you're seeing in that space? Let me ask Clark Peterson he'll take that.
And for those you don't know Clark is President of our Business Solutions Group.
And I think to answer that question Greg we feel very well suited to be able handle the mid to large enterprises.
We feel like as you look at the up market opportunity we're already there right with the systems the national network the back office in place and a lot of experience to handle these customers.
So we have customers that over a 1 000 seats on our network and we continue expand our national sales group as we see great and great opportunities for these very large mid to large enterprises that want a national footprint and want somebody who has the back office systems and the full portfolio of services to the service all their needs.
And Greg I think there's -- our solution is not limited at all by size of opportunities.
What we do everyday our very large multi-geography multi-location customers for which they hire group solution of connectivity on-prem cloud et cetera.
That's just everyday event for us.
We find and we're knocking down more and more of these much larger customers but the meat of the market still is like all disruptive technologies started at the bottom of the SMB side and is moving rapidly up to mid market small enterprise into large enterprise and we're just tracking right with it.
Terrific.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Routh from FBN Securities.
Your line is open.
Thank you and good quarter.
Couple of quick questions.
You talk about the NOLs that you have and obviously if you use off balance and part on and part off do you expect to fully utilize now are you doing all of those NOLs given and look what your future profitability going forward? We do.
Yes within the period that need to utilize them we do.
Now when we acquire company typically they also have NOLs so it's not adding when we acquire necessarily in a leaner way but we do believe that we will utilize the full 640 NOLs that we have down.
So big change from the pass one when if it didn't look that way.
Okay great.
And as far as the acquisitions you talked about obviously you made a bunch of and you comment you're looking to more BroadSoft base kind of entities.
Given how big you got and how many are out there that really fit with what you're doing that probably would be willing to do something that you given their relative size in the market and how big you are.
How many opportunities are to near term that accretively you think might be doable? Sure.
We always talk about two different sets or two different pockets of potential targets; one is companies that typically have over $50 million of revenue and use BroadSoft typically are very deepen in a wide geographic area.
It's not nationwide and there continue to be a handful of those.
And we believe given the acquisition of iCore we just did add roughly 1.3 times 2015.
If there are good precedence out there not everybody is a seller at that price but we think there are enough amount thereof quality that we can get good values.
So that handful continues to out there.
And then there is a very long tail of companies that are typically sub $200 million of revenue sometime sub $10 million of revenue.
And having just come back from BroadSoft connections the annual BroadSoft conference I would note that we believe that tails about twice as long as we thought it was when we got into the BroadSoft space.
And that's not only in Europe but I'd say that half of the attendees of the conference were not based out of the U.S.
but within the U.S.
in first second third tier cities just a lot of these subscale BroadSoft competitors out there.
Alan mentioned that one of the strategies as it relates to direct sales force fills [ph] out is to acquire essential customers and sales force capacities in key cities but for us its not math its essential a buy versus bill calculation that we're doing.
Okay great.
And just two more if I may as far as the balance sheet obviously with the increase in guidance and your balance sheet you are well over capitalize and your leverage is incredibly low.
What do you feel as the property leverage that tonnage could handle if you found some end pass opportunities and you didn't want to use your stock as a currency.
You wanted to use cash instead given your equity probably for expensive long- term.
Is there a maximum leverage you would – you really [Indiscernible] that deal came along? Sure.
First I'd say that today we're first and foremost about strategic and financial flexibility to take advantage of the organic and M&amp;A growth opportunities so we're not operating today at specific target leverage as it relates to capital allocation.
We're operating to be able to take advantage and grow the business accretively.
Our current loan enables us just normal course to be at 2.5 times leverage.
We're only at 1.3 right now net of 2.5 times is gross.
And it enables us to stretch up to 2.75 for an acquisition.
So we've got a lot of room and particularly as we think about the pockets of acquisitions that we just talked about we've got ample of room to acquire I think what we need to and acquire multiple businesses that's where we come out.
I think that there are advantages for us to stay – to be able to finance in the investment grade market which is essentially what we're doing today.
It cost at roughly 3.5% fully pre-payable short amortization schedule and lenders being a group of banks who we maintain close relationships with and I know would have talk to – suppose to a group of less sympathetic lenders.
So we like that structure right now.
It serving us well.
If we felt like there was a very compelling acquisition that required us to go above three times and was accretive.
We would consider that.
But given the capacity we have now I don't see that in near term.
Great.
That makes sense.
And last question as you about your – what you're doing on sales side and the direct sales are all of the people that you're hiring are they all are employees of Vonage W2s or do you have any 99 independent contractors out there doing this for you? Robert this is Joe.
Yes all of our direct field sales folks are all W2 employees.
We obviously have a one of the largest if not the largest channel partner program in the industry where we have over 35 people out there as channel managers managing 1000s of agents with our master agent relationships.
Those folks are under the aging category.
But our direct field folks are all W2 employees.
Great great.
Thank you very much and congratulations.
Thank you.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Bill Dezellem from Tieton Capital Management.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
If you would allow me to expose my ignorance you reference the enormous opportunity with iCore that you're just beginning to tap and I did not really understand what it was you were referring to and the size of that opportunity.
Would you take a little time and dive into that some more detail please? Bill this is Alan.
When you through and you sell in Unified Communications Solution your ARPUs can range from below of $36 up to $70.
The opportunity is to – it’s a wallet share play initially.
And so when iCore had done is they will go in and they would sell – when we became familiar with the customer through the UC sale you'd realize that there was an opportunity for to virtualized their servers or to provide other virtual desktop solutions and then there is other cloud-based solutions that they can provide.
The best way to think about it that when you're providing the UC Solutions the core telephony and frequently the core connectivity for a customers the way I would like to describe it you're the heart lung and lever of that operation.
So you're in a position of trust to begin with.
So the opportunity from that position of trust to add on other cloud services is very natural and matter of fact its much more natural than if you started from sort of tertiary service and then try to go inward to grab the UC based services.
So given where we start it’s a very natural add-on iCore had roughly 1300 customers.
We have over 60 000 so it's just natural to push that throughout the entire installed base.
And again as I mentioned we added over 8500 logos in the quarter alone.
So this is a gift that's going to keep on giving so we're very excited about this.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Okowitz from Citi.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
I wanted to ask about Vonage business services the organic revenue growth decelerated 200 basis points sequentially maybe just to help us understand that can you break out exactly how much iCore with the PPA adjustment contributed during the quarter.
And looking forward into 2016 do you think you can sustain that 30 mid 30% revenue growth level or do you think it will continue to decelerate through the focusing on the integration side of things you're doing with the companies you've acquired? Thanks.
In February we'll give guidance for 2016 and iCore at that point be fully part of the business solutions group which is the premier part of Vonage business.
So we'll be in a position to talk about the organic growth rate of 2016 at that time.
iCore this quarter added roughly $5 million for the month of September to our revenue and was relatively neutral as it relates to EBITDA given the cost that we took on and given the purchase accounting adjustment.
I think what you're seeing because as we step back say okay bookings are growing net subscribers are growing and revenues growing that the growth rate is really about the math and the acceleration I guess is the word you used is really about the large base.
I did mention that iCore like other acquisitions is growing slower than we are and you don't reaccelerate that growth overnight.
So that's something to take a new account as you think about growth but we are going to be coming off a much large base and we believe we can materially accelerate the growth rate of iCore over time as we have done with Simple Signal and Telesphere.
And moreover the iCore acquisition itself really was about the strategy.
It was about creating balance or better balance in our selling channel having very strong channel presence channel partner presence but also a direct presence as well as the products and the geographic complement that it provides.
If we were to look just at organic growth again can you break out what iCore add in terms of seats just so we can see what you are adding internally compared to last couple of quarters and then I understand the base is getting larger but do you think if we just look that was Vonage business a year ago would it still be growing at a quick rate that you guys are pleased with or think that with the acquisitions maybe some management focus and some sales focus demand spread in other places just trying to understand because the year-over-year that we are looking at for organic has some pretty stable in terms of absolute dollars as well.
Yes so iCore added -- we announced when we acquired the company about 85 000 seats.
And so that was the ending balance at the end of September of what they added on a net basis.
The -- I think the second part of your question was are we happy with the growth rate we are in the 36% easy organic growth rate and you know we believe particularly in the context of having acquired a Telesphere less than a year ago and SimpleSignal well less than a year ago that we are growing at that rate given again like iCore neither of them was growing at nearly that rate.
You know these companies tend to be growing by themselves they tend to be undercapitalized and growing more at you know market type rates in the kind of 20% area in some cases lower.
Thank you very much for taking the questions.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That is all the questions that we have for today.
So I’d like to turn the call back over to Hunter for closing remarks.
Great thank you Andrew.
That does conclude our call today and we look forward to speaking with folks next quarter and throughout the quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you all.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you again for your participation in today's conference.
This now concludes the program and you may all disconnect your telephone lines at this time.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Vonage Holdings Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Just as a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Hunter Blankenbaker Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Great thank you and good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter and year-end 2015 earnings conference call.
Speaking on our call this morning will be Alan Masarek Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Pearson CFO.
Also joining us are Joe Redling Chief Operating Officer and Clark Peterson President of Enterprise.
Alan will discuss the company’s strategy full year and fourth quarter results and Dave will provide a more detailed view on our full year and fourth quarter financial results as well as our outlook for 2016.
Slides that accompany today’s discussion are available on the IR website.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks we will be happy to take your questions.
As referenced on slide two I would like to remind everyone that statements made during this call may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements are based on management’s expectations depending on assumptions that maybe incorrect or imprecise and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
More information about those risks and uncertainties is highlighted on the second page of the slides and contained in our SEC filings.
We caution listeners not to rely unduly on these statements and disclaim any intent or obligation to update them.
During this call we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation to GAAP is available on the IR website.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Alan.
Thanks Hunter and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
I couldn’t be more excited and more energized to be with you this morning to discuss our results for the fourth quarter and full-year 2015 as well our outlook for 2016.
2015 was a transformative year for Vonage.
We made enormous progress optimizing the profitability of consumer services while successfully pivoting to the unified communications for business market.
I’d like to take a few minutes to reflect on some of the key highlights and how we advance our mission to become the markets clear leader.
I’ll start with Vonage business.
First in 2015 we successfully integrated the five companies we acquired over the last two years.
We made great progress moving towards common systems network platforms and product catalogues while operating two focused technology stacks.
We improved operational efficiencies exploited synergies and drove rapid organic growth.
And now we have a scaled platform to successfully integrate future acquisitions.
Second we simplified our go to market strategy by creating two product families.
Vonage Essentials based on our proprietary call processing platform that has purpose built SMB through mid market customers.
And Vonage Premier based on BroadSoft enterprise grade call processing platform which serves larger customers from the mid market to truly large enterprises.
This product clarity is critical to deliver the right solution to the right customer with a value proposition that is simply better.
And I am purposely emphasizing the word better.
In fact we made it our new tag line; Vonage the business of better.
And we created this tag line because we believe our value proposition is simply better than others.
And third we implemented the industry's broadest multi channel sales distribution platform targeting business customers of any size or complexity from small SMBs to very large enterprises.
Our teams of field sales people and sales engineers are focused on adding new accounts in the core U.S.
markets and they partner with our client service teams which enhance the customer relationship and up-sell additional services.
Our channel partner team is fully deployed and represents one of the largest channel teams in our industry.
And we further expanded our highly effective inside sales teams who target the SMB segment that they continue to produce outstanding results.
Within consumer services our optimization efforts were highly successful when we delivered greater profitability and cash flow.
We reduced 2015 sales and marketing expense by $100 million.
By moving to direct response digital and television eliminating BasicTalk and shifting to a grab and go merchandizing strategy in retail that further reduced our use of face-to-face assisted selling.
Concurrently we improved the quality of the customers we acquire and in doing so drove customer churn to lowest level in nearly a decade.
The successful execution of this plan has created a sustainable and predictable consumer services segment that will continue to return strong cash flows for many years to come.
In 2015 we delivered consolidated EBITDA of $144 million and consumer services generated more than 100% of this.
The profitability and cash generation ability of consumer is a strategic advantage that provides us with access to low cost capital to invest in organic and inorganic growth opportunities in business.
And very very importantly the profitability and cash flow is never more important than during uncertain times and unfavorable markets like we’re experiencing today.
The strength of our cash flow generating ability is highlighted by the fact that our net leverage ratio is only 1.1 and this is after we spent over $400 million in cash over the past nine quarters on stock buybacks and the five separate acquisitions that have jump started our pivot business and created our top line revenue growth.
These cash flows are an extraordinary advantage as compared to our public pure-play competitors.
Further still because consumer and business share the fixed cost of our network infrastructure.
As Vonage business scales we believe we can continue to variablize the expense structure of consumer.
This enables us to improve the operating margin of consumer despite declining revenues as we demonstrated clearly in 2015 and we’ll continue to do so in 2016.
Lastly reinvigorated the company’s culture through a series of employee first initiatives that are setting Vonage on a path to being a destination place to work.
We functionalize the overall organization and eliminated separate business units moving to one Vonage one brand selling UCaaS to multiple customer segments through multiple sales channels.
We also strengthened our Senior Management team with new leaders in product marketing digital sales business development and human resources and we appointed Joe Redling as our Chief Operating Officer.
We now have the right leadership and talent to execute our strategy and to achieve our mission of becoming the clear leader in cloud communications.
As I reflect on the year I am particularly proud of the stellar financial results we delivered in parallel with all the operational improvements acquisition integrations and foundation building we completed.
We generated consolidated revenue growth for the second consecutive year and EBITDA was the highest in four years.
Now we move on to the specifics in certain product areas.
So I will start with Vonage business where revenue in Q4 was $71 million 149% year-over-year increase.
The business now accounts for 31% of total Vonage revenue.
When I got here little over a year ago it was less than 11%.
Revenue churn improved to 1.1% from 1.3% sequentially benefiting from our focus on a superior customer experience integrated service delivery and client services.
This is a very important improvement and it is a telling barometer of our disciplined approach to execution and our ability to successfully integrate our acquisitions.
Once again we delivered very very strong customer growth as we added more than 8900 new business customers in Q4.
What's particularly impressive about this data point is that these customers are distributed across the entire array from small businesses through mid market and up through enterprise reflecting the breadth and depth of Vonage business.
In recent months there has been a lot of focus and attention on the enterprise end of the market including by several of our pure play competitors.
I have always emphasized the full market because I believe Vonage has better offerings to match the full spectrum of business customers regardless of size.
But let me be really clear Vonage is already deeply entrenched in the mid market and enterprise segments.
Nearly 40% of our monthly recurring revenue as we exited Q4 came from business customers with 50 seats or more.
And approximately 20% of monthly recurring revenues came from customers with 250 or more seats.
I emphasize the strength of revenues derived from these larger customers because it highlights the rapidly accelerating demand we are seeing from this segment.
Also I am particularly excited about the enterprise segment because I am convinced we have a better product fit for this market than our competition.
Just following through that we offer a fully managed solution which starts with BroadSoft's enterprise grade call processing platform and then bundled our private national MPLS network with 21 points of presence across the country.
This combination enables us to guarantee quality of service which large multi location enterprises demand.
By combining our network we own the solution which means we eliminate the inevitable finger pointing between the quality of the bandwidth and the quality of the communication solution.
We own the problem.
Our solution also includes an unparallel choice of products tailored to the unique needs of enterprise.
If a customer has an existing contract with another MPLS provider we simply peer our network into theirs and still guarantee QoS.
We can even provide QoS level quality over the top of the customer's existing broadband through our smart win router solution.
Also we frequently bundle our other cloud services such as infrastructure as a service virtual desktop and backup and recovery with our core UC offerings.
These cloud services increase more next year [ph] and create ever stickier customer relationships.
And finally we serve enterprise customers via Zeus which is our award winning back office support system and customer portal.
Zeus enabled enterprise customer's to control the controlled access account details including service configuration trouble tickets training billing and call analytics as well as the ability to process moves and changes.
Zeus provides the level of detailing control that enterprise customers not only expect they absolutely demand.
It is these capabilities that enable us to serve large enterprises like WeWork the market leading shared workspace provider with nearly 80 locations across the globe.
WeWork creates dynamic workspaces for technology and fast growth companies.
And Vonage is proud to help them achieve their mission.
With more than 4500 seats deployed already Vonage provides its premier product to WeWork's members with whom we have a direct billing relationship as well as to WeWork itself at the corporate level.
We are the ideal provider for their cloud communication needs given the dynamic nature of their customer base and their multi location footprint.
We are also proud to be part of WeWork's international expansion including in UK where we recently migrated their mini locations to the Vonage Solutions.
To build on a success for enterprise efforts and to further capture the growing opportunities we’re seeing in enterprise I tapped Clark Peterson formerly CEO of Telesphere and current Chairman of the Cloud Communication Alliance to lead our enterprise efforts as its President.
With the creation of a dedicated enterprise team we now have a national footprint comprised of four targeted sales channels to address the entire business market.
In addition to enterprise we have our field and channel sales teams selling primarily to mid market customers and we augment these with our inside sales team selling primarily to the SMB market where we continue to see excellent growth.
As I said before 90% of all employer companies in the U.S.
have fewer than 20 employees and this segment continues to rapidly migrate to the cloud.
Our low cost digital and inside sales customer acquisition model generates very attractive subscriber economics and we will continue to invest in this market.
To summarize we’ve established a very strong position in business.
It’s validated by our inaugural appearance as a visionary in the 2015 Gartner Magic Quadrant.
Our solutions meet the needs of SMB mid market and enterprise customers.
Our integrated multichannel distribution model enables us to sell the right product to the right customer through the right channel.
And the value proposition of our solutions is unmatched in the industry regardless of customer size or complexity.
Let me now move on to consumer services where we remain focused on profitability and cash flow.
This quarter we continue to reduce marketing spend by cutting non-working and inefficient media while utilizing more efficient direct response vehicles.
The results are outstanding.
There is no other way to put it.
Sales and marketing spending in Q4 2015 was 46% lower than Q4 of 2014.
At the same time we drove account churn to the quarter down at 2.2% as a 20 basis point improvement over the year ago quarter and equals the nine year low we achieved in the second quarter.
To put this into further perspective since we began our disciplined customer acquisition strategy in the third quarter of 2014 we’ve added seven months to the average customer’s lifetime.
This equates to an incremental $130 in service margin over a customer's life.
This validates the positive impact of our acquisition strategy and highlights the stability of our tenure based where 72% of the base has been with us for more than 2 years.
Now looking ahead to 2016 the sales team and system infrastructure integration to product positioning and all the brand building we accomplished in 2015 has laid the ground work for a multi-year growth opportunity in this very dynamic market.
As we are going to hear in more detail from Dave we expect our 2016 financial performance to reflect our focus on profitability and consumer coupled with high revenue growth in Vonage business.
In Vonage business our organic growth will be driven our differentiated products and capabilities.
2016 will be another year of continued investments in the Vonage business sales part and we will expand in the new geographic markets and continue to broaden our sales forces.
These investments will drive results not only this year but for many years to come.
We also remained focused on inorganic growth the acquisition pipeline remains full as we continue to actively evaluate opportunities.
Principally BroadSoft based UCaaS providers that will build our scale and broaden our market presence but also looking into cloud related products and technologies.
In consumer services the strategic priority will be continued optimization of the segment maintaining low churn and staying focused on adding customers that meet our lifetime value and return objectives.
In closing I'm extremely thankful to the entire Vonage team for their incredible efforts over the past year.
We’ve accomplished a great deal both operationally and financially while maintaining the energy and the passion that is a hallmark of our culture.
There is more work to do but we have an outstanding opportunity to leverage the foundation we have built to drive a true leadership position in the rapidly growing UCaaS market.
I look forward to updating you on our progress.
Thanks so much and now let me turn it over to Dave.
Thanks Alan and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to review our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2015 and our outlook for 2016.
Before I begin I’d like to note that these results include a full quarter of iCore financials as we acquired the company in late 3Q.
Additionally quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides during our prepared remarks are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.
With that let’s begin on slide 4.
Revenue for the fourth quarter was $230 million up $15 million or 7%.
Business revenue grew to $71 million a 149% increase from the prior year.
For the full year consolidated revenue was $895 million up 3% and at the high end of the increased guidance we provided in November on the 3Q earnings call.
The increase was due to substantially higher Vonage business revenue partially offset by expected line reductions in consumer.
Vonage business grew 2015 revenue to $219 million a 132% increase on a GAAP basis.
Fourth quarter average revenue per line in consumer was $26.93 down from $28.06 due to the $10 a month for the first year pricing structure implemented in 2015 and lower ILD pay-per-use revenue.
Q4 of Vonage business average revenue per seat was $44.79 up from $34.28 a year ago and up from $41.56 in the prior quarter.
This substantial improvement reflects our successful efforts to strengthen our presence in the mid-market and enterprise phase organically and through acquisitions.
Moving to slide 6 consumer customer churn for the fourth quarter was 2.2% down from 2.4%.
Churn improvement is the result of our focus on adding high quality customers that are less likely to churn and the continued stability of our tenured base.
We ended the year with 1.9 million consumer subscriber lines down 200 000 for the year and 58 000 in the quarter consistent with our expectations and our increased investment in the business.
Revenue churn for Vonage business was 1.1% down substantially from 1.5% in the prior year and down from 1.3% sequentially.
This significant improvement in business churn comes from material gains and customer retention in Essentials and Premier as well as the addition of iCore.
Importantly we have made structural and operational improvements to achieve this reduced churn.
All churn will vary based on seasonality and the size of the customers that churn we believe we will continue to be an industry leader in this area.
Vonage business grew total seats to 542 000 up 74% by acquisitions and continued strong organic growth.
Now moving to income statement cost items.
In the fourth quarter cost of service was $69 million up from $57 million.
For the full year cost of service was $262 million up from $231 million a year ago.
Both of these increases were due to higher cost of telephony service or COTS from the much larger number of business seats which outstripped consumer line losses.
The large gain of business seats brought access costs from those premier customers taking MPLF as well as increased network operations and tier 3 care expenses which are included in cost of service.
When excluding these line items to be able to compare it to 2014 cost per line in business and consumer came down year-over-year in 2015.
We expect to continue to drive the lower in 2016 given our scale.
We expect improvements in cost per line to come from developing more caring relationships beginning to cut over to owning and using our own phone numbers and further excluding synergies from the continued integration of our acquired businesses into our telecom infrastructure.
Turning to slide 7 sales and marketing expense for the fourth quarter was $90 million up $3 million.
This increase reflects continued investments in our Vonage business organic sales and marketing initiatives including increased spend behind our business of better campaign to build the Vonage business brand.
For the full year sales and marketing was down $26 million a much more efficient spend on consumer customer acquisition and lower growth line addition partially offset by the ramping of the business sales force and marketing campaign.
General and administrative expense for the fourth quarter was $30 million up $4 million.
Full year G&amp;A was $109 million up $10 million.
Both increases reflect the addition of Telesphere Simple Signal gUnify and iCore G&amp;A expenses and headcount as well as acquisition related expenses.
Moving to slide 8 fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA was $34 million down $1 million year-over-year and flat sequentially both as planned to support brand spend and the expansion of our sales force in business.
Full year adjusted EBITDA was $144 million up 16% from the prior year and at the top-end of our revised guidance.
These EBITDA results reflect strong cash flow generation capacity of consumer services.
Adjusted net income for the quarter was $13 million or $0.06 per share down from $19 million or $0.09 per share due primarily to a onetime positive in 4Q 2014 when we cancelled the remaining stock options of our former CEO upon his departure.
Full year adjusted net income was $68 million or $0.32 per share up from $60 million or $0.28 per share tracking a higher EBITDA.
The adjusted net income metric removed non-cash items such as amortization of intangibles from acquired companies and adjust for the fact that Vonage is not a material cash tax fair to our $626 million NOL.
Turning to slide 9 CAPEX for the quarter including the acquisition and development of software assets was $14 million primarily for network infrastructure and systems improvements.
This was up 7 million year-over-year.
For the year CAPEX was $34 million up from $24 million a year ago and modestly higher than our original guidance reflecting investments to improve our core operating platforms and network success based investments to churn out new Premier accounts and the moving forward of certain investments planned for 2016 to capitalize on attractive offers from vendors at year-end.
Free cash flow which we define as net cash provided by operating activities minus capital expenditures and acquisition and development of software assets was $32 million in the fourth quarter up $8 million from the prior year.
Free cash flow for the year was $96 million up from $68 million due to the increased EBITDA.
Adjusted EBITDA minus CAPEX was $20 million in the fourth quarter down $8 million year-over-year and $110 million for 2015 up 10% over the prior year also reflecting strong cash flow generation of our consumer business.
In 2015 we bought back 3 million shares at an accretive average price of $4.58 per share.
As noted in prior earnings calls the execution of our return of capital program is subject to change as market conditions and M&amp;A opportunities may warrant.
For example during the fourth quarter we did not repurchase any stock but over the first five weeks of 2016 we exploited the broad market pullback to repurchase 525 000 shares for $2.6 million at an average price of $5 per share.
Since beginning the repurchase of stock and on 2012 we brought back 49 million shares of Vonage stock for $151 million at a highly accretive average price of $3.10.
Our buyback has provided strong returns for shareholders and it continues to be one of the key components of our capital allocation plan.
Cash cash equivalents and marketable securities as of December 31 were $70 million including $3 million in restricted cash and $10 million in marketable securities.
Net debt was $152 million and we ended the year with net debt to adjusted EBITDA of 1.1x.
In July of 2015 we put in place a new four-year low cost $350 million bank debt facility primarily in the form of a flexible revolver.
We believe that the combination of this facility and the strong cash flow generated by consumer is a strategic differentiator and gives us ample liquidity to pursue further disciplined organic and inorganic growth.
I will now discuss our guidance for 2016.
In 2016 we believe consolidated revenue prior to acquisitions to be up from 2015 and in the range of $905 million to $920 million.
Within this we expect Vonage business GAAP revenue growth of approximately 50% also before acquisitions.
Regarding cash flow we expect to deliver at least $150 million of EBITDA in 2016.
Our EBITDA projection is based on strong cash flow from consumer and an increase in sales and marketing spend in business build out our direct sales force and exploit the UCaaS market opportunity.
We expect CAPEX to be in the $38 million area.
This number is net of tenant improvement capital dollars we are investing in our Holmdel New Jersey headquarters which are being refunded by the building owner in connection with our long-term lease renewal.
The cost will show up in CAPEX and the refunded cash will come back to us immediately in working capital.
More broadly this year we are funding several important capital projects which are highly ROI positive and support our long-term growth objectives.
Projects include consolidating down the number of U.S.
data centers strengthening our business customer interface and billing systems and expanding our field sales offices.
Combining the components of guidance I just discussed we expect to generate over $110 million of EBITDA minus CAPEX in 2015.
This cash flow generation is a strategic and financial differentiator for Vonage.
On the M&amp;A front we are actively assessing opportunities in the UCaaS space to provide the right strategic fit at attractive valuations.
Our primary acquisition focus continues to be on providers large and small that utilize the enterprise grade BroadSoft platform where we believe we can accretively acquire customers key sales force assets technologies and our geographic presence.
We also continue to look at enhancing our product offerings through acquisition to provide competitive differentiation and grow share of Vonage [ph].
We completed four acquisitions in the nine-month period from the end of 2014 into mid-year 2015 and have developed a sound analytical approach to assessing opportunities and subsequent integration having standardized systems and processes in 2015.
It is likely that we will continue to be acquisitive in 2016 which would be additive to the revenue guidance I just discussed.
We think about organic and acquisition growth as one and the same as they both have attractive returns that represent growth in the UCaaS space.
Thank you for your continued support of Vonage I will now turn the call back over to Hunter to initiate the Q&amp;A session.
Great thanks Dave.
Lets open it up for questions please.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
And the first question is from Catharine Trebnick of Dougherty &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Thanks for taking my question.
A nice one quick -– maybe this is more for Clark or Joe Redling how are you guys seeing Microsoft in the field and is that -– even though you gave very good guidance for your VBS up 50% year-over-year is there anything lagging from Microsoft in the recent announcements that you think might be impacting or might be sales going forward or etc.
can you give us some more detail around that new competitor that has emerged? Thanks.
Catharine hi this is Alan.
I’ll just start and then I’ll turn it over to Clark.
The noise on the initial announcements has actually subsided meaningfully.
We do not see them in any way shape or form of presence today but Clark why don’t you expand.
Got to view with Alan I think we have not seen them out there as a competitor really across the board.
I think as we’ve talked about before it’s a very deep featured product offering right now and we have not seen it as a competitive issue in our environment right now.
Alright thanks.
The other one is around contact centers BroadSoft just announced an acquisition with the contact center you currently do a lot of third party integration for midmarket could you give us some more details on how you think that acquisition in the contact center might help or hinder Vonage going forward thanks? Clark why don’t you take that as well.
Yes we are very excited about the acquisition Transera.
I think it now gives us the full product portfolio for contact center or even any advanced contact center features that in the past we might have partnered with different advanced contact center companies like in contact and others.
We now have those abilities to do all of that in our own Vonage cloud using the BroadSoft platform.
So it's very advanced and has also some great features on the analytic side to do advanced call routing has deep integration with salesforce.com and we think it's going to be a great asset for us in the contact center style which is a very growing market.
You know Catharine its actually margin accretive to us simply because it will be part of our existing license cost with BroadSoft and so because it’s a much more capable solution we will less frequently have to go outside which depresses margins when you have to bring in a third party.
Alright thanks guys.
I’ll proceed to the queue I think.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from George Sutton of Craig-Hallum.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Alan I appreciate your discussion as you talked about your capabilities as others are talking about up market opportunities.
Wondered if you can kind of breakdown the competitive environment a little bit in that up market versus the SMB which obviously it seems a lot of folks are abandoning? Let me take that into two parts.
The reason we believe folks are abandoning the low end is because their acquisition cost don’t support selling to small customers.
And because we’ve got the brand authority the domain authority that we have.
We have a very effective acquisition model so the digital leads in then closed with its very very efficient inside sales model works really well for that segment.
While others might be able to copy an efficient telesales operation what they cannot copy is the brand.
That’s the -- it is the non-replicable asset.
Up market its very different.
Up market it is sold via bid on the street and the product set is critical for the up market customers.
So as I spoke about in the prepared remarks the fact that we’ve got the full -- whether we use the BroadSoft call processing stack as an element of our solution and then bundle it most frequently with our full NPOS network and all the automated provisioning tools we believe that certainly has the better product market fit than others who are trying to serve the up market and we’re seeing just increased demand from a very large enterprises in that segment.
The competitors out there it’s still the same cast to characters not characters the cost to company that we seen in the past we just now believe that we’re seeing more deals and we are winning more deals.
So we are very very bullish about the enterprise segment.
Clark do you have anything to add to that.
Yes I would agree.
We’re seeing it across the board whether it is from our field sales group whether it is from our channel teams there it is clearly moving our market and we are uniquely suited as Alan said between our ability to offer QoS from three different mediums to Zeus which is really unprecedented as far as being able to provision these larger customers.
And a product portfolio that we feel is bar none.
Thank you.
Perfect one another question if I could relative to the enterprise growth guidance of 50% can you give us a sense of what you are assuming from an organic growth number in that conclusion and then also give us a sense of what you expect for ARPU over this year? I think we've discussed the ARPU but what the key things to think about is we've become a serial acquirer.
Now we've done four deals in the last nine months five deals over two years.
So we look at the growth on a GAAP basis.
We've also now fully scrambled the eggs.
So there is no longer a Vocalocity a Telesphere Simple Signal or iCore a gUnify it’s all part of a functionalized organization structure.
That said as we try to pick it apart we have to look at these things that we've owned for more than a year and our growth rate is still extremely high but the key thing you got to remember is we just bought iCore four months ago.
We paid 1.2 times -– 1.3 times revenue for that which we thought was an excellent deal.
We've only owned it for four months.
We need an opportunity to step it up to get it to the growth rate that we've had across the board.
If you look at what our grow rate for the assets that we owned as of the beginning of 2015 we actually delivered 40% organic growth rate.
So we're incredibly bullish with where we're going with these growth rates but it’s very very difficult to unscramble the egg.
And I’d say George its Dave just to answer your question on ARPU ARPU in business will be fairly stable.
So we are growing in enterprise but we also continue to grow with our Essentials product and so those two are balancing it very quickly.
And that market tipped to the cloud earlier so we have a very good running start there.
So when you mix that all together in the absence of acquisitions ARPU will be relatively stable per seat.
Okay perfect.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Greg Burns of Sidoti &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
I missed some of the prepared comments there but I was hoping you could maybe go back over some of the levers that you still have maintaining the profitability of that consumer segments whether it’s still marketing expense optimization or what are the other areas where you could maintain the margins there? Let me ask Joe to answer that.
Yes I think we've gotten to the point where it’s really a variable expense model now.
So I think there's opportunity on the margin side.
We still think there's opportunity to continue to optimize the marketing spend as we head into 2016.
And as our -– Alan mentioned on his remarks the tenured base continues to grow with lower churn rates.
So I think it’s a combination of being focused -– continually focused on the optimization of the marketing spend acquiring customers with much higher profitability and being very selective on that it is continuing to right size the cost structure as that business shrinks in terms of the overall customer base and bringing that cost structure down with that revenue line and continuing to support our existing customer base to drive that churn down.
So those are really the three big levers.
I think Greg let me add on top of that.
What’s really interesting in consumer is typically if you have one declining segment and one increasing segment the fixed cost structure of the one in decline at some point would overtake it and you would not be able to generate the operating leverage.
That’s not the case here because so much of the fixed cost is shared because of the common network.
So it’s simile but it’s an amazing advantage that we have.
The other thing that we have to remember is back when we were spending marketing in -– as I reported we cut at a $100 million back when we were spending so much more in marketing our IRRs on that marketing spend were very poor.
So now the IRRs on the marketing spend are attractive.
So we've gotten this business to a point of optimization where its performing quite well and given the tenured base that Joe talked about what you're going to have is you have the classic long tale of a consumer subscription business which we're confident is going to generate cash flow for a very very long period of time.
Okay thanks.
And in terms of the EBITDA guidance I guess just maybe directionally not actual dollars but how dilutive is the business segment to that number or when do you foresee that getting to -- breakeven to accretive? So this year in 2016 we’re looking at customer economics being attractive enough and our cash flow position as company being good enough to be able to grow as fast as we possibly can in business.
What that will equate to is a modest EBITDA loss in business for 2016.
For 2017 we would look at that to be breakeven or better as we start to take material operating leverage and then beyond a curve where we are building operating leverage every year in business.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question is from Mike Latimore of Northland Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
I guess Alan you said the pro forma organic growth on Vonage business was 40% this year that includes Simple Signal and Telesphere.
It includes Telesphere because we didn’t buy Simple Signal until in 2015.
So you look at the assets that we owned as of the beginning of the year is 40%.
Okay guys and then you mentioned that obviously having a great balance sheet and cash flow is important in this environment I guess has the sort of broader macro concerns does that influence any sort of business customer buying patterns here anything like that.
I mean your guidance is obviously very good but is that’s showing up in sort of the discussion at all? Actually no the macro-economic stuff has had zero impact.
If you think about what we’re selling it is a ROI sale.
It eliminates the customers upfront hardware cost it has lower operating cost it's an instantly scalable solution versus the finite scalability of the on trend solution and it has got more functionality.
So it is compelling in any sort of environment.
What's interesting is when you go truly up market the benefits of these type of solutions are even better.
Because if you look at a very very large enterprise that’s distributed in hundreds of locations take a retailer for instance their connectivity and their communications come from literally dozens of sources and there is PBX boxes of different ages with maintenance contracts and connectivity coming from literally dozens of sources.
So the big issue that’s happened in the enterprise side is the comfort with the cloud.
That’s where the pivot has happened if you will and now that segment is becoming increasingly comfortable.
Working with some of my guess is the opportunity to harvest those savings that the previous structure didn’t permit.
So we remain very bullish we’re seeing nothing negative relative to macro-economy.
And then the last question I think you are able -- with some of your business offering able to do kind of a high-end approach where some companies can keep on premise systems in some locations and cloud in other is that a material part of the business or is that just a nice application? Well I’ll start and then I’ll turn it over to Clark.
Hybrid is a natural element.
We see that absolutely everyday because go back to that enterprise example they may have a contract for connectivity that still goes for a couple of years with another provider.
They want to have to pay twice so we’ll peer into that network and still provide QoS.
They may have a contract with an premise PBX but we got a maintenance contract which still has a couple years to run or the box itself is not fully depreciated.
And in that instance we can just sift into it through our network as well.
So we are working this hybrid environment that is the rule not the exception.
Clark do you want to add to that? I’d absolutely agree.
I think that is normal for us and it’s a really a strategic advantage and the further companies are and the more locations they have more of this comes into play and you will see across the board.
And in multiple locations they are not all going to be similarly situated and so they are going to have different sizes of office we have the full product portfolio for all those different sizes and needs.
They are going to have different connectivity needs like Alan said.
We have all three of the connectivity needs that really address that full market.
And when you look at the products that there is it fits that whole market segment.
So we really have a great product set to address that.
And as Alan had mentioned earlier it’s also very cost effective for them to now be able to pull all those offices together get volume price and as you look at LD and other things that we can really pull them together under one cloud.
And at a CFO level they appreciate that ability to unite all their offices both by feature set and geographically as far as the way they communicate.
And can I just have the one win competition question.
I guess the telecom operator and cable companies where would you rank that kind of group in terms of the competitive landscape and has there been any change from that group in the last say 6 to 12 months? Clark why don’t you take that? Sure.
I have not seen much change as they continue to I think be a competitive front out there more on just the very smaller SMB customers.
We have not seen them move market in any meaningful way.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Dmitry Netis of William Blair.
Your line is open.
Thank you for taking my questions gentlemen nice results.
Thank you.
Okay.
Couple of questions I guess just in terms of guidance maybe asked a little bit differently and as I kind of look through the numbers that $25 million sort of lower top line guide and given that 50% growth in VB would assume probably 6% 7% upside in that business from where the Street had been for 2015.
So I would say that probably translates around $30 million headwind around that number of the consumer -– in the consumer revenue and then that probably results in about 12% let’s call a 13% decline year-over-year.
So my question is really is that a voluntary number to project some sort of natural attrition or will there be continued involuntary churn in that business created by you and as you sort of continue to optimize that business? So I'm just trying to understand the ebbs and flows of the consumer and what’s the more of a secular organic decline looks like? Sure.
I think this addresses it in 2015 consumer revenue was down roughly 13%.
That is the trajectory that that business is on and embedded in our guidance for 2016 is that business will be down around 13% in that range again.
We're not engineering to that number.
That is the trajectory it’s on when you look at optimizing it in terms of having every subscriber added be materially MPB or IRR positive.
And we expect given that this will be the second year on that trajectory that that’s the course that we’ll stay on.
I would note that for the long-term if you simply play out a 13% decline over a five-year period you still have a $300 million revenue business in 2020 and at that stage you may be in a different posture as it relates to marketing and have significant margin upside at that point.
I don’t think that’s something that’s necessarily clear in our guidance or factored in to investor expectations right now.
Dmitry this is Alan.
One I think as we've chatted about this in the past if you go back two or three years where the decline in revenue in consumer was 5% or 6% a year back in 2012 2013 and 2014 those were the times when we were spending these marketing dollars north of $200 million.
But they were generating completely unsatisfactory IRRs.
So this 13% decline slope is now a place where we've now optimized the marketing so that the IRRs are attractive.
We think that’s just a far better way to run this business and its generating more profitability not less.
Dave Alan thank you for that color very helpful.
I will switch it over to VB real quick.
The -– well just a quick one on the large sort of as you move mid-market enterprise were there any large kind of think of maybe thousand plus deals in the quarter? Do you have any of those in the pipeline kind of how are you thinking about those kind of big enterprise deals as you and Alan mentioned the markets inflection and bigger enterprise is starting to jump into the cloud? Great so let me clarify something Dmitry here and I’ll turn it over to Clark in a moment in your question.
We are not moving into the enterprise.
We are not moving into the enterprise we are in the enterprise.
When we have been in the enterprise.
So at times it is frustrating the markets you guys have narrated about were in the SMB side that’s untrue.
We are in both ends of the segment both ends of the market so the focus where Telesphere was selling well and where iCore was selling well traditionally for many years is in mid market up to our enterprise.
And as the market itself not our legacy companies has now become more and more robust in enterprise we are just naturally picking up more and more customers.
There are many customers that we already have with more than a thousand seats.
Many many customers like that and there are many many customers that ends up in the pipeline but we are running a business that is serving the full spectrum of the business market.
Any size and across any sort of level of complexity that’s the strategy that we are going after and we are doing that with these two purpose built stacks to target SMB and then separately to target up market midmarket up to truly large enterprise.
Clark anything to add there? Just real quick I think to your earlier point we are there and we feel like we are really a better offering there for these mid to large enterprises and that’s already been appreciated by the number of customers they already have in that group.
And like we mentioned earlier 20% of our MR already comes from those 250 seats and higher.
But to your question on the thousand seats or higher yes we have a very robust pipeline of customers that are multi thousand size customers.
And we continue to see not only from our different field and channel partner leads and pipeline committing but also RFPs coming and continue to grow larger and larger more at market and ask specifically in RFPs for only hosted providers to respond to those RFPs.
So it is clearly a change and clearly something we’re seeing move up market in a significant way.
Yes thank you and fair enough Alan I should have given you a chance to address your presence with iCore and Telesphere in the large enterprise sort of segment.
But that commentary on the thousand seat plus and five point there was helpful too.
And then I guess thanks -– and then last question I guess on the just the channel programs around VB I think you guys mentioned in the call four targeted sales channels I was just trying to revisit that if you could give some more color what are those four channels specifically and I do know you have now field sales organization I think part of it or big part of it came from iCore acquisition and maybe I was thinking 90 to 100 people roughly correct me if I am wrong but what is the plan to grow that organization to above that 90 to 100 people that you brought in as you sort of moved according to those accounts larger accounts? This is Alan again our strategy is an omni-channel strategy.
We have four channels.
So inside sales which is telesales then we have our own W2 employees our own W2 sales people that’s are direct field sales force then we have the channel managers who work with the master agents and the sub agents throughout North America and then we have Clark's enterprise channel.
As I said in my prepared remarks we want to sell the right product to the right customer through the appropriate channel and you’re going to sell your SMB down to your micro businesses through your telesales channel because that’s the most effective way to reach those at appropriate acquisition cost.
And the enterprise obviously serves as enterprise and then the direct field group and the channel is really focused mostly in midmarket and up to a small enterprise.
From a growth point of view the size of the direct field group is already well figured then at 90 to 100 that you mentioned.
We are presently in nine cities with separate sales offices.
We think about the expansion strategy we use the term at NFL cities strategy.
There are 32 cities 32 NFL cities.
Again it doesn’t necessarily have to be having an NFL team there but you get the idea that we're going after the large city.
So today we have sales offices in Chicago New York Philly Washington Atlanta Dallas Houston Denver Phoenix and we're expanding in every direction to have a direct field presence in all the major markets throughout the country.
And we're going to do that organically and inorganically.
Again because we just can’t get there fast enough organically and there were opportunities to buy others of these BroadSoft service providers in these other markets and we're going to be very active with that this year.
Alan thanks.
Maybe last question for Dave real quick on the data center consolidation.
What's the impact to gross margin on FX is there any positive tailwinds in there? Yes that will be reflected in COTS it’s going to take throughout the year to do that and we were cutting our data center footprint and this is separate and apart from our pops our termination pops.
We're cutting our data center footprint in more than half.
So you're not going to see a significant impact to margins in 2016 but in 2017 you should see a material difference which we’ll clarify as we execute that change.
Awesome.
Thanks guys.
Keep up the good work.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question is from Robert Routh of FBN Securities.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning and thank you.
Good quarter.
First question is obviously acquisition and such you talked a lot about and you said you can do a bunch of them or try to this year with the BroadSoft players.
What right now should we look at in terms of how many deals do you see being out there is there a plethora of them or are there only a few that you’d be interested? And what are the current metrics we should look at in terms of what you think you’d be able to make acquisitions at in terms of a multiple of revenue or multiple of EBITDA just so we can get a sense as to kind of how the market looks from your perspective? Sure.
So we’ve only talked about having really two buckets of BroadSoft providers out there which is at where we're focused on in the near term if the larger providers who are typically north of $50 million of revenue and yes smaller ones which tend to be very geographically focused which tend to have anywhere between $5 million and $20 million of revenue.
As we think about that bigger bucket there's probably $200 million plus of addressable acquisition market revenue out there for us.
And on the smaller end there's a very long tail but realistically there's probably a $100 million of revenue out there that is addressable or could be acquired.
We're looking in both markets.
I think the headline or the thumbnail valuation tool that we've used is a revenue multiple and making sure that that is highly accretive.
But our real analysis is based on discounted cash flow in both un-synergized and then synergized.
And it’s just very important to note that each company is different.
We're seeing many companies most in fact if not all that are not growing as quickly as we are.
So they’re typically they have positive EBITDA in many cases but they’re growing a lot like iCore was by itself without new capital in the teens organically.
So when we think about valuation it is just -- it’s very hard to apply the market to that.
So that’s why we use the DCM [ph].
I think that our past acquisitions over the past year have been done in the low one’s to two times forward revenue.
I think that’s a good guide as we think about it although if an acquisition has cash flow we can certainly factor it.
We would increasingly factor in an EBITDA multiple there just to make sure that we're capturing the essence of that company.
Okay great makes sense.
And then one more follow up.
Given the cash flow characteristics of your business and what you expect it to be in 2016 and given where your equity is now and the cost of that equity relative to your cost of debt because obviously your cost of equity is far greater than your cost of debt and your leverage really 1.1 times and you are going to be free cash flow positive but it looks like in 2016 as well.
When you look at your repurchase activity wouldn’t it make sense to lever up a little more and really change your equity to create leveraged equity returns especially in this market because obviously you know with acquisitions that you did etc.
even with the repurchase activity your share count keeps going up as well as your EBITDA going up and so you are never getting that leverage equity returns.
I am just curious as to how you are thinking about that especially given what we’re seeing in the market recently with equities being punished? Sure we think the buyback is a good use of capital and as I mentioned in my prepared remarks it is going to continue to be a key part of our capital allocation strategy and plan.
What we’re balancing that again is the potential for M&amp;A which we just talked about.
Now we have got it has not been an either or and it is not going to be an either or it is really about balancing those things.
So our current debt we leverage at 1.1 times net.
Now our current facility which we put in place in July which by the way is at current LIBOR is that less than 3.5% coupons to your point that is being cheaper enables us to go up to 2.75 times gross leverage.
So we have got significant headroom there.
Then there is the potential for more leverage for more dollar leverage if any asset that we acquire actually has cash flow associated with it because our current facility is at $350 million total.
So we got significant capacity between cash and the revolver it is really just a question of making sure that we can address all of the M&amp;A that’s attractive out there and also have some capital for the buyback as well.
And so we are dynamically balancing those things based on the M&amp;A opportunities that we’re seeing as well as the fact that the price we’ve always thought our stock was cheap but its particularly attractive at these prices which is why we got very aggressive in January.
Great and just one final question related to this is what do you feel given the growth prospects of the business is the proper leverage for the company obviously it is probably a little low now you don’t want to go too high where are you most comfortable in terms of your target leverage on the growth space? Right now we’re not operating the company towards the target leverage.
We’re letting the leverage up to a cap of what's available at reasonable coupon.
Within that we’re letting our M&amp;A and other capital allocation buyback in organic growth strategy drive that.
I think the current bank loan as I said enables us to go up to 2.75 times.
I think we are comfortable running the company at 2.75.
I think we would be running it at 3.
I think when you start to get above that it is less about target leverage and its more about cost of debt.
I think when you cross into high yield land there is a disproportionately higher cost of debt at that point.
So three times I think we’re prepared to let the strategy try that and once we’re through this acquisition push that we are making now it will be more about fine tuning what the target is.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And this time I’d like to turn the call back over to Hunter for closing remarks.
Great thanks Latoya.
And thank you everyone for joining us today.
We appreciate your support of us look forward to speaking with you throughout the quarter as well as again next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference you may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Vonage Holdings Corporation Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Just as a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Leslie Arena Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ms.
Arena.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2013 earnings conference call.
Speaking on our call this morning will be Marc Lefar Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Pearson CFO.
Also joining on the call are Joe Redling and [indiscernible] Wain Kellum.
Marc will discuss the company’s strategy and progress and Dave will review our financial results.
Slides are accompanied Dave’s discussion are available on the IR website.
At the conclusion of our prepared remarks we will be happy to take your questions.
As it referenced on Slide 2 I would like to remind everyone that statements made during this call may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These and all forward-looking statements are based on management’s expectations and depend on assumptions that maybe incorrect or imprecise.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
More information about those risks and uncertainties is highlighted on the second page of the slide and in our SEC filings.
We caution listeners not to rely unduly on these statements and disclaim any intent or obligation to update them.
During this call we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation to GAAP is available on the IR website.
And now I will turn the call over to Marc.
Thank you Leslie and good morning everyone.
I’m pleased to review our results for the fourth quarter and full year 2013 with you.
Let me start with some contexts for those of you joining us for the first time.
In early 2012 after completing a multi-year operational and financial turnaround we outlined a three-year strategy to drive substantial additional revenue growth for 2015.
We established three areas of strategic focus.
First growth in our core U.S.
and Canada markets by mean the needs of underserved segments including entry into the small and medium business market.
Second the development of our capabilities in mobile and third international expansion.
In 2013 we made important progress against each of these growth priorities.
We launched the BasicTalk brand nationally providing compelling value to domestic callers.
In the core Vonage branded business we continue to shift marketing investments from mass reach vehicles like television the local sales teams focused on ethnic segments.
These moves and the inclusion of lines from Vocalocity in the last six weeks of the year resulted 9 000 net line additions for the year and an improvement of nearly 25 000 lines from 2012.
This vehicle versus a several years of annual line losses.
In addition churn for the year improved by 10 basis points to 2.5%.
We grew the adoption rate of mobile extensions which extends our home phone service to mobile phones.
And we improved our standalone mobile app with quality and feature enhancements including video calling and a unique twist on video voicemail.
Early in the year we announced the venture to launch service in Brazil and are on track with the upcoming launch.
And most recently we acquired Vocalocity what we believe the transformative transaction for the company.
Financially we produced $110 million in adjusted EBITDA and $66 million in free cash flow.
Contributing to our financial performance were material improvements in the cost of telephony services and customer care with reductions of 8% and 16% respectively.
Importantly we delivered the customer care improvements for achieving gains satisfaction handle time and first call resolution.
We also executed on our balanced approach to capital allocation.
Our strong balance sheet enabled both the funding of the Vocalocity acquisition and a continued execution of the share repurchase program we began in August of 2012.
During 2013 we repurchased $56 million or 19 million shares of Vonage stock.
Since beginning the buyback in 2012 we repurchased 31 million shares or $84 million.
Although we made significant progress in many fronts revenue growth fell short of our expectations for the year.
This is due primarily to two factors.
First the gain is driven by Vonage World among key ethnic segments and BasicTalk among discount value shoppers we’re not sufficient in 2013 to offset the impact of line losses in 2012 and a slowdown in sales of premium domestic service plans.
Although the churn has been stable in this segment we did experience net line declines.
The second driver has been the timing of revenue contribution from new initiatives which has been a bit slower than we expected.
We’re aggressively addressing the challenges in our core business with the addition of Vocalocity we expect to grow the overall business in 2014.
Results for the fourth quarter was solid revenue grew 4% sequentially to $200 million $211 million including the impact of Vocalocity in the last six weeks of the year.
Excluding Vocalocity revenue was stable sequentially at $204 million.
Adjusted EBITDA increased $2 million sequentially to $25 million and gross line additions of 175 000 were flat sequentially and up 15% versus the prior year reflecting customer additions of BasicTalk and Vocalocity.
Churn decreased to 2.5% improving modestly from the third quarter resulting a 9 000 net line additions.
This is our third consecutive quarter of positive net line additions and both our consumer business and Vocalocity we’re net line positive in the quarter.
Dave will cover the quarterly results in greater detail in a few minutes.
Let me now spend a few minutes covering the highlights of each of our major areas of focus.
In our core North American business we see continued opportunity to grow both our international long distance and domestic customer base.
We’d successfully grown our international calling base in multiple ethnic market segments establishing strong brand presence and awareness 36% of U.S.
Indian households are now Vonage customers.
Over the last year we’ve grown our revenue from Filipino’s segment to more than $10 million annually and our Hispanic base has grown nearly 50% over the past three years with the great opportunity for additional share gains.
Although we worked to optimize our match reach media vehicle for ethnic audiences we see room for additional efficiency.
We will continue to shift funds to more targeted approaches including the assisted sales model in retail stores and community-based sale teams.
Sales for these channels which were virtually not existed in 2010 have grown 500% over the last three years and now comprised over 50% of gross line additions.
We now provide a assisted selling in 700 stores.
We are also improving our digital platforms and tools.
We’ve undertaken a complete redesign of our online experience to increase prospect flow enhance the customer learning and buying experience and improved conversion.
We’re also optimizing our platform to support all forms of traffic from desktops mobiles and tablets.
BasicTalk is our 999 per month low-end domestic calling product launched nationally in the second quarter of 2013.
BasicTalk is sold at all Wal-Mart’s stores nationwide and online.
The product has performed well helping the company to deliver positive net line additions for three consecutive quarters reversing the decline of the domestic segment and validating our retail-oriented distribution strategy.
Many buyers give BasicTalk as a compliment to their cell phone.
42% of BasicTalk buyers did not have home phone service at the time they signed up.
BasicTalk is bringing back cord-cutters.
Our data also shows that the strategy contributes BasicTalk as a separate brand to avoid cannibalization of the Vonage base has been largely successful.
Our delivery model for BasicTalk is lower cost than our premium brand in virtually every way including devices customer care and acquisition cost.
Looking ahead we see opportunity to grow BasicTalk through additional distribution opportunities and product enhancements.
Ultra-value shoppers represent a market of more than 40 million households and we expect to continue to gain share as we expand distribution and improve our direct channel performance.
To further drive execution of our strategy for our overall core consumer business we appointed Joe Redling as President of Consumer Services for the U.S.
and Canada in December.
Joe was a highly engaged member of our Board as a former public company Chief Executive and Chief Marketing Officer he brings more than 20 years of experience in consumer marketing and operations.
Joe adds specific expertise in transforming and optimizing subscription-based businesses through the use of digital platforms and I’m confident he’ll have a positive impact on our business.
Now let me turn our attention to internationals.
Vonage has operated successfully for many years in Canada and UK.
Now Brazil is the principal area of focus in our international expansion strategy.
Our Brazil business has the potential to be a substantial contributor to revenue over time.
The Brazilian market at large and growing rapidly with more than $22 million of its 67 million households already broadband connected.
Brazil was also home to more than a 1 million expats and has a vibrant small business community.
In addition the government is committed to expanding broadband access in advance of the 2014 World Cup and 2016 Olympics.
The customer appetite for alternatives to the existing telecom services providers is strong.
Our research has found that incumbent providers are slowed to revision services and core costumer services was a major main point.
Pricing is high and confusing for domestic and international calling on both wireline and wireless networks.
Our service addresses these issues and will be launched with mobile calling through our Extensions app and an integral element of the core offering.
We’ve completed development of the core components with the services and are now contacting integrated production testing we have an experienced local management team and have established and trained our customer care teams.
We are on track for a phased market launch stating early in the second quarter.
We plan to launch our services first and select smaller markets and progress to largest market later in the year.
In addition to our focus on Brazil we actively are pursuing potential opportunities in India and Mexico.
Mobile is now an essential component of our core service for the extensions product and a global digital phone card.
It’s also a standalone product as Vonage Mobile App.
Approximately 87% of our home phone customers who call internationally in mobile extensions.
28% of the international calls made over the Vonage network are made for a mobile phone representing nearly $200 million calls and almost $2 billion minutes of use in 2013.
And new features such as video calling and video voicemail have been received favorably helping to attract new users in the standalone mobile app.
In the fourth quarter nearly 25% of all Vonage mobile calls made on the Android devices and 10% of iPhone calls were video calls.
In 2014 new capabilities will bring carrier great features and improved quality to Vonage’s mobile platform.
We recently implemented enhancements to our video services audio call setup speed and in call quality that meet or exceed the experience customers have with their existing mobile carriers in many situations.
Future enchantments will bring new benefits to both businesses and consumers.
Business customers will be able to make and receive calls from the desktop number maintaining both their work identity and their personal identity on a single handset.
Our product roadmap includes the next-generation of mobile services that create true alternatives to traditional wireless carriers and will allow consumers to communicate seamlessly over any connected devices at low cost virtually anywhere in the world.
The acquisition of Vocalocity positions Vonage as a leader in the small and medium business hosted Voice-over-IP market.
For us and it’s all have been except this market which is in its very early stages with less than 15% penetration to grow at a rate of 28% over to each of next five years.
Vocalocity which were in the process of rebranding as Vonage Business Solutions serviced more than 25 000 businesses and it’s focused on company of 20 or fewer employees which comprised 60% of the SMB market are $9 billion in revenues.
For the full year Vocalocity grow revenue 38% in the prior year to $62 million.
That witnessed the rate of growth is nearly doubled that of Eight by Eight and comparable to that of RingCentral.
And during the fourth quarter Vocalocity added nearly 1500 more net new organic customers an Eight by Eight.
Vocalocity continues to be lead by Wain Kellum a highly experienced CEO Wain has a deep background in the software industry having built five successful software companies that has partners including Microsoft and HP and he take equity stakes in several of these companies.
Immediately following the closing in November we implemented a program to quickly realize many of the cost synergies identified in our diligence activities.
In addition we are aggressively evaluating new level of opportunities to grow even more quickly and gain the full benefit of the Vonage brand.
On the cost front we have already fully interconnected Vocalocity with the Vonage intelligent call routing platform to take advantage of domestic termination costs that are 65% lower.
Vocalocity will also have the benefit of some of the lowest international long-distance rates in the world.
We’ve also completed the migration of Vocalocity to Vonage’s E911 platform.
As the year progresses we expect to begin to combine portions of our infrastructure and take advantage of best practices in product developments in areas such as mobile.
Beyond this we are in the process of implementing Vonage’s customer care technology leveraging our workforce management tools to improve costs while increasing overall productivity.
On the revenue front we’re quickly working to leverage the Vonage brand.
Vonage’s aided awareness of 80% among small and medium business owners more than eight times that of the other major VoIP competitors providing us with the great opportunity to increase market share as awareness of cloud-based solutions where SMB increases.
We are already implementing or actively testing programs in five areas.
First we are improving our digital yield by redirecting all of our business prospect to web traffic and inbound calls from Vonage to Vocalocity and by working to optimize our digital search programs.
Second we are testing an expansion of the Vocalocity referral program to include Vonage existing consumer customers.
Third we are evaluating impact of a broad range of promotional pricing options.
Fourth we’re testing the impact of targeted advertising and our ability to sell for the segment of SMB customers where international calling is an important part of their business.
And fifth we are improving distribution through expansion of our reseller and teller sales channels.
Beyond the programs already in progress we see additional strategic opportunities which we are rapidly evaluating.
These include one improving our capabilities to serve the SoHo market where the Vonage brand resonates strongly.
Two licensing our cloud-based software desktop tools and mobile VoIP products as white-label services the mobile carriers and enterprises that sell to other businesses.
Three evaluating the proper timing and approach to expand up market to companies with more than 20 employees.
And four potentially using the Vocalocity platform to accelerate our international expansion outside of the United States.
Although it’s still early we’re quite pleased with the early results of the enhanced marketing programs and the potential of the Vonage brand.
Net customer additions for December and January are doubled that off the prior two months of October and November.
We intend to build on this early momentum and we will keep you posted on our progress.
During the year we also continued to make strong progress developing and protecting the valuable intellectual property invented by our talented employees.
In 2013 we more than doubled the size of our U.S.
PAT portfolio as the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office ordered Vonage 18 new patents covering diverse technologies such as advanced call routing techniques mobile VoIP handoffs roaming and quick to call services.
Including several applications by Vocalocity we filed 99 patented applications in 2013 and now have more than 210 pending U.S.
patented applications.
In summary we made solid progress in 2013 well we still have much to do.
With the addition of two highly experienced leaders in Wain and Joe we have strengthened our team and sharpened our focus on executing our growth plan.
Revenue growth remains our top priority for 2014 and we expect total company revenues to increase in the range of 1% to 2%.
This is on a pro forma basis treating Vocalocity as that we owned it for all of 2013.
On our reporting basis including Vocalocity revenue only since acquisition we expect total company revenues in 2014 to increase in the range of 7% to 9%.
These numbers taken to account the softness I discussed in our domestic premium business which we expect will be more than offset by the contributions from our growth initiatives.
Strategically we’ll continue to allocate capitals the area’s highest return and will assess additional M&amp;A opportunities that build in our current asset base that’s happened into growing markets.
Thank you for joining us today.
And now I’ll pass the call over to Dave.
Thanks Marc and good morning everyone.
I am pleased to review our financial results and 2013 outlook.
Before I begin let me provide the context for the numbers we’ve reported this morning.
We’ve reported consolidated financial results for Vonage and Vocalocity combined as of November 15 closing date of the merger.
As a result the fourth quarter results included partial quarter of Vocalocity’s results.
These results also reflects GAAP purchasing accounting GAAP purchase accounting rules regarding amortization for intangible assets integration and acquisition expenses and the one-time exclusion of a portion of Vocalocity’s deferred revenue.
This exclusive and resulted in a reduction to reported revenue coming from Vocalocity in the fourth quarter.
In table 2 we showed consolidated result as reported in key Vocalocity operating statistics on a pro forma basis as the Vonage and Vocalocity where all periods presented and not including the effects of purchase accounting.
With that let’s get to on Slide 3.
For the fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA was $25 million up from $23 million sequentially reflecting improvements in cost of telephony services customer care cost per line.
Adjusted EBITDA just down from $34 million in the year ago quarter reflecting our planned investments in strategic growth priorities.
Full year adjusted EBITDA was $110 million down from $135 million in the prior year due to investments in growth priorities including the national launch BasicTalk in the second quarter and lower revenue.
Adjusted EBITDA excludes the overlaid expenses for Vocalocity but I think the negative impact of the $800 000 purchasing accounting adjustment I noted above and just for the 30% of our Brazil venture that we did not own in the period.
Moving to Slide 4.
Four quarter GAAP net income was $4 million or $0.02 per share flat sequentially.
GAAP net income was down from $13 million or $0.06 per share in year ago quarter.
Fourth quarter 2013 reflect the negative net effect of $2.5 million of amortization of acquired intangible assets associated with Vocalocity for the six weeks in 2013 during which we owned Vocalocity.
Fourth quarter net income excluding adjustments was $10 million or $0.05 per share up sequentially from $9 million and $0.04 per share and down from $23 million or $0.10 per share prior in the year ago quarter.
As with EBITDA the reduction in net income reflects our planned investments and growth priorities.
Full year net income excluding adjustments $52 million or $0.24 per share down from $84 million or $0.37 per share in 2012.
Moving to Slide 5 revenue for the fourth quarter was $211 million up from $204 million sequentially due to the inclusion of the partial quarter of Vocalocity revenues.
Core Vonage revenues were flat sequentially and Vocalocity full quarter revenue prior to the purchase accounting adjustment of $17 million up 7% sequentially and up 40% over the year ago quarter.
Revenue declined from $214 million a year ago due to lower customer acquisitions on premium plans and a $2 million reduction in Universal Service Fund or USF fees which were our pass-through.
For the full year revenue was $829 million down $20 million from the prior year primarily due to plan mix and in $8 million declined in the USF fees which accounted for 39% of the difference partially offset by Vocalocity.
Fourth quarter average revenue per user was $28.72 down from $28.87 sequentially primarily due to lower customer acquisitions on premium plans.
ARPU was down from $30.15 in the year ago quarter due to plan mix in USF.
Moving to Slide 6 we continue to drive efficiencies and key cost areas improving COTS and customer care.
We reduced COTS to telephony services a $52 million and $57 million year ago primarily due to lower international termination rates per line was declined by 5% lower interconnect costs which declined 43% in lower USF.
COTS declined from $53 million sequentially due to lower international termination and collocation cost.
Continued reductions in this key line item have more than offset effective customer plan changes on ARPU resulting in an increase in direct margin to 71% compared to 69% in the prior year.
COTS per line was $7.09 down from $7.48 sequentially from $8.02 in the fourth quarter of last year.
Moving to Slide 7 selling general and administrative expense for the fourth quarter was $73 million up from $65 million in the third quarter driven by an increase in assisted selling expense $2 million in Vocalocity acquisition related cost and the absence of the $1 million insurance reimbursement that was reported in the third quarter.
SG&amp;A increased from $62 million in the year ago quarter due to higher assisted selling expense as we more than doubled the number of stores with assisted selling non-cash stock compensation and acquisition-related cost.
Offsetting a portion of these increases were declined in customer care cost per line which were reduced by 7% on a sequential basis 14% from the year ago quarter excluding Vocalocity.
For the full year we again delivered significant cost reductions in customer care and improvements across quality metrics which also contribute to improved customer retention.
Per line costs declined 16% excluding Vocalocity reflecting continued service quality improvements operating efficiencies and improvements in average handled time in contact rate which declined 7% and 8% respectively as well as improvements in first call resolution and customer satisfaction which we’re at best-in-class levels.
Moving to Slide 8 marketing expense for the fourth quarter was $58 million down from $59 million sequentially reflecting a shift in marketing spend focused on in-person selling and BasicTalk marketing spend levels becoming more normalized post-launch.
Marketing was up from $53 million a year ago.
Subscriber line acquisition cost or SLAC decreased to $331 from $339 sequentially due to increased efficiency in acquiring BasicTalk customers and the partial quarter addition of Vocalocity.
SLAC declined from $347 in the year ago quarter reflecting the impact of higher gross line additions from BasicTalk and Vocalocity.
For the year marketing expense was $227 million up from $213 million in 2012 primarily due to brand building associated with the national launch of BasicTalk and Vocalocity.
Resulting SLAC was $348 up from $326 a year ago.
Turning to Slide 9 gross line additions or GLAs were 175 000 flat sequentially reflecting the partial quarter of Vocalocity lines offset by lower customer line additions on consumer plans.
GLAs increased from $152 000 in the prior year’s quarter due to BasicTalk Vocalocity and UK line additions.
We added 653 000 GLAs for the full year flat with 2012.
Regarding GLAs since closing on Vocalocity we have directed prospective business customers that come to Vonage by inbound teller marketing to the web the Vocalocity’s website and inbound teller sales.
Well this has meant fewer consumer GLAs the net effect has been positive.
The same lead flow generating more total lines and higher ARPU and putting the Vocalocity product in customer’s hand which we believe is as great future up sell opportunity.
Customer churn for the fourth quarter was 2.5% down from 2.6% sequentially and flat compared with the year ago quarter.
Churn was also reduced to 2.5% for the full year the lowest level in three years reflecting higher customer satisfaction and improvements in the customer experience.
The addition of Vocalocity was immaterial to overall account churn.
Vocalocity account churns for the fourth quarter was 1.8% and in the year with over 25 000 customer accounts.
We added 9 000 net lines in the quarter a third consecutive quarter of positive net lines.
Net lines for the year were also 9 000 positive 25 000 lines swaying from 2012 our first year of positive net lines since 2008.
Both the Vonage consumer business and Vocalocity were net line positive for the quarter and the year.
Moving to Slide 10.
CapEx for the quarter including the acquisition and development of software assets at $6 million primarily for network infrastructure and systems improvements.
This is up from $4 million sequentially down from $12 million in the year ago quarter.
For the year CapEx was $22 million down from $27 million a year ago.
Free cash flow on the fourth quarter was $30 million up from $20 million sequentially due to positive changes in working capital partially offset by higher CapEx.
Free cash flow was down from $49 million in the year ago quarter primarily due to lower operating cash flow.
Similarly free cash flow for the year with $66 million down from $93 million from our operating cash flow.
Before reviewing our balance sheet I wanted to discuss change the ownership substructure of our joint venture in Brazil.
Joint venture partner there Datora for the strong operating partner in preparation for launch.
Our agreements with Datora include provisions which allow for dilution rates in the event either partner does not satisfy certain capital obligations.
Datora was unable to fund certain 2013 capital obligations and as a result Vonage expects to increase its ownership with the venture to approximately 90%.
Not excepted to increase risk to market entry and Datora continues to be Vonage’s operating partner and equity holder in the Brazil venture.
I’d be now discussing the mechanics of the Vocalocity acquisition and the impact to our balance sheet.
Upon deal closing in the November Vocalocity shareholders received $108 million in cash and $8 million shares in Vonage common stock.
We financed cash portion of the transaction with $33 million cash from the balance sheet $75 million from our revolving credit facility.
Upon close Vocalocity had $3 million of excess cash on its balance sheet.
Following the acquisitions and as of December 31 2013 Vonage cash and cash equivalents of $89 million up including $4 million in restricted cash on the balance sheet.
Even after funding the acquisition our balance sheet remained strong.
Our net leverage ratio was 0.5 times on net debt of $15 million given a significant strategic and financial flexibility.
With this flexibility we will consider additional M&amp;A opportunities that set with our asset base including bolt-ons to Vocalocity.
During the fourth quarter we continued to our balance approach to capital allocation repurchasing $3.5 million shares for $12 million.
So slightly lower than the prior quarter as we’re out of the market twice during quarter due to the Vocalocity acquisition.
During 2013 we repurchased $19 million shares for $56 million we have repurchased $51 million with Vonage stock into our current $100 million authorization intend to continue to execute on this program.
As beginning the buyback in August of 2012 we’ve repurchased $31 million shares of Vonage stock $84 million at highly accretive average price $2.68.
As Marc discussed in 2014 we are targeting revenue growth in the range of 1% to 2% on pro forma basis.
We except EBITDA to be stable to its current quarterly run rate plus or minus $7 million as we will exercise discretion to modulate our investments based on the progress we are seeing across our portfolio and some of the investments such as Brazil are lumpy and vary in timing of when they will be made.
Our EBITDA projection is based on stable cash flow from our core business and investments in the launch of Brazil enhanced distribution of BasicTalk and accelerating the growth of Vocalocity.
We expect CapEx to come in around $13 million level.
Thank you for your continued support at Vonage.
I will now turn the call back over to Leslie to initiate the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Dave.
Operator please open the line for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from George Sutton from Craig-Hallum.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
I’m not sure if this is best directed to Marc or Wain but relative to the rebranding program and the impact that you saw in both December and January I wondered if you could give us a little bit clarity as to was that sort of a one-time impact of the rebranding or can you give us the sense of the kind of velocity of demand that you’re seeing that you would expect on an ongoing basis? Hey George it’s Marc.
Thanks for the question.
I’ll take the first answer and I’ll let Wain to provide some additional color.
The December and January results relate a combination of both the Vonage brand and awareness as well as accelerated investment spending which we talked about to make sure that we built awareness in the marketplace.
So we did device promotions as well as targeted advertising announcing the merger.
The sustainability of that given that it’s early it’s still difficult to know but we do expect to have a aggressive spending profile during the course of the year.
And we would expect to reapply some of those programs that worked in the December and January period.
I would mention that the net doubling of business actually was exclusive of direct traffic that we handed to Vocalocity that was really based upon market general interests in the brand Vocalocity’s impressions in the marketplace as well as the overall marketing and sales activities.
So we think we’ve kind of normalized with the direct lead handoff that we pushed in and as a little bit of internal gymnastics to get that clear.
But we feel very good about the progress.
I don’t think it would be fair at this point to take a straight line and go gee that’s going to be sustainable for the rest of the year.
But is certainly quite encouraging and we’ve seen continuing strong leads and prospects coming in over the last several weeks.
So more to come on that to be candid a lot of the activities we put in place since closing have been testing to try to understand what gives us the best financial return.
And we’ll keep you posted as we go but our objective here is to invest in those things that could accelerate the growth rate of Vocalocity and while we want to remain flexible on the investment profile we’re looking more to reinvest the cash being generated out of business rather than using it as an EBITDA engine.
We think there is a lot of opportunity to invest and then we think that that investment will get us a long-term solid return in revenue growth.
Wain do you want to add anything to that? As Marc said it’s been a combination of accelerated stem and we’re early on in learning how to leverage the Vonage brand.
But the Vonage brand applied to the Vocalocity business at a minimum has at least four benefits that we see.
We get a lot more eyeballs now than we used to which create selling opportunities so web traffic is up.
Marc described the Vonage referral program which has enormous potential when you look at the potential number of ours are pipeline per partnership development and recruitment appears like it’s going to benefit greatly.
And even on the digital side since we’ve rebranded we’ve noticed the quantifiable increase in our form completion up almost 33% which is indicates that we’ll see an additional improved efficiency in our online paper click spending.
Thanks Wain.
For those who are not aware of the form completion is the key for step in qualifying a lead where we actually capture the business name and information.
So the ability to have that completed or interest in getting that form means we are getting more engage prospects.
Thanks George.
Next question.
Just two other questions relative to the SMB part of the business if I could.
Number one every public competitor on their call has pretty blatantly said they’re trying to move up market outside of this 20 and below market.
So I’m curious if you have started to see any positive impacts from those moves.
And secondly you had talked about a white labeling program which is the first time I heard you discuss that I’m curious if you could just expand a little on that opportunity.
Sure.
So Vocalocity’s focus has been on the 20 and under employee customer base.
That’s about $9 billion of the $15 billion market.
The market we think is still very under-penetrated and we think that there is lots of running room acquiring those customers very efficiently.
That’s our primary focus.
When we talk about competitional impact from other players the truth is its relatively rate or the less frequent occurrence that we are competing with the other players in the marketplace for business.
It tends to be whoever gets there first has a high probability of winning the business.
It’s much more of the land grab phase in this marketplace than it is aggressive competitive market at least among the cloud based providers.
We’re going to continue to assess the right way to move our market.
That can be efficient and if we can do that with cost effective distribution and there are some serious breakpoints in how do you distribute to the move up market were assessing that.
They’re might be some bolt-on opportunities.
They get us into verticals that would make that a natural fit.
Our platform is certainly extensible up market but we think there is a lots of work that we can do particularly in leveraging the Vonage brand within the market space when.
So we’re assessing it.
Had not seen significant impact from competition but didn’t want to take that off the table as we partner with Wain and think about the long-term growth strategies.
On the White Label front we really have a very unique asset in Vocalocity and they really built what is a complete cloud-based platform.
Think about the movement into platform as a service and we’re think very strategically about what this platform can do for us whether it becomes the core platform for expansion rapidly into international markets.
We even thought about how should be using this approach to our core business in the United States.
We have had significant interest from multiple large companies that service small and medium businesses or have an incumbent base of customers with one set of products that have approached us and shown real interest.
And basically leveraging our platform putting their brand on it and there is any number of different business structure that supported.
And we think that’s a significant opportunity as people are trying to think about quick way to market to be able to drive more revenues in there and leverage our existing small and medium business markets.
That’s something that Wain and his team are focused on right now.
Next question Operator?  And your next question comes from Greg Burns from Sidoti &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
I was just hoping to get a little more color on the gross line additions in the quarter.
If you back out any contribution from Vocalocity they will be down sequentially.
So I was just wanted to get a feel for the slowdown and BasicTalk growth or are you seeing accelerated declines in your domestic calling Ohio high ARPU calling subscriber base.
Sure Greg it's Marc let me take that one as well.
So as I mentioned both of our consumer and Vocalocity businesses were positive net lines for the quarter.
That said the core business was down sequentially slightly.
There’s a couple of factors.
One is we are pouring some amount of bucket of customers from the core business into Vocalocity as we shift lead.
That’s why these numbers become fairly blended over time.
That was one driver.
The second driver was we did see some continuous softness in domestic premium customers particularly in the October period was a little bit of softness.
We saw some shifts in media in an effort to become more efficient that frankly while there are less expensive broadcast networks than we thought would be achieving the same kind of regional frequency that was not the case and we had to pull back on that and reinstate our prior media approaches which showed a bit of a bounce back.
So October was soft.
The other contributor to that was this is the first full-year December that we’ve had with BasicTalk.
And as you are aware this is a largely mass merchant retail-driven product.
We didn’t know what to expect but it’s not been the case our Vonage business but BasicTalk is very much a shopping experience destination shop.
We don’t do assisted store selling for BasicTalk and as a result during the Christmas holiday we saw softness in BasicTalk which is since bounced back post holiday.
So those two factors gave a sequential softness.
But again I reiterate that both the consumer total with net adds positive as with Vocalocity which was only six weeks of the quarter.
Next question operator.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Michael Latimore from Northland Capital.
Please go ahead.
Yeah great thanks.
I was just trying to think of a few things on Vocalocity here.
I think you did about $16.5 million or $16.6 million in the third quarter looks like you grew about 2% sequentially.
Can you help I think there is a seasonality in the business there or can you think it looks like the number of businesses that grew a lot more than that and obviously year-over-year were strong sales.
May be talk a little bit about that? Yes sure there really isn’t significant seasonality and Wain can comment further on that in the Vocalocity business.
The sequential increase was 7% on revenue and without the purchase accounting and you may be looking at the purchase accounting adjusted number which took about $800 000 net of revenue for the fourth quarter.
So it really it was a positive trend and the fourth quarter was 40% higher than the fourth quarter of 2012.
Great.
And then on the traditional Vonage SoHo business let’s say what percentage of revenue was that in the quarter? We don’t track that usually on a segment-specific break out but I would tell you that relative to our run rate we’ve talked about it being ballpark around 4.5% to 5% of total revenues and we’ve talked about it being roughly $40-ish million in revenue that wouldn’t have changed based on the size of that base in the fourth quarter.
I would reiterate the comment I made before which is we have eliminated the proactive selling of small business plan under the Vonage brand.
We are moving all of the traffic increase that relate to the business even if you go to the Vonage website links you to fully branded Vonage business solutions pages that access the Vocalocity rate plans and sales teams.
So while we will continue to have churn out of the Vonage core business you will not see replacements that’s hitting the consumer business all of that will move to Vocalocity which makes a tremendous amount of sense.
And you’ll also see blended marketing efforts because you see a lot of small and medium business owners who take advantage of the same kind of consumer media that our consumers do.
And that’s why we look at this really very much of a blended business and we now have to look at total revenues and total additions as a measure of progress.
Next question operator? Thank you.
And our next question comes from Michael Rollins from Citi Investment Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning thanks for taking my question.
Just first off I’m wondering if you could be just more specific on the impact to unit volume whether it was on the net add or on the gross add or is that frankly both in terms of what Vocalocity contributed during the six weeks roughly that you had it within the financial result? And then secondly just taking a step back I’m wondering if you could talk a little bit more about how investor should think about the acquisitions costs of a Vonage business customer from here either on the per customer basis or per line basis whichever you think would be more helpful to think about in that form? Thanks Sure.
I’ll take the second question first.
IOR of a Vocalocity customer is quite high and based on the acquisition costs so it is much more oriented towards sales than your standard Vonage customer and the all-in acquisition costs is leading to an IOR that is above anything we’re seeing the Vonage consumer business today.
So I’d call 50% on the current course of speed and that’s using some fairly conservative approaches to that calculation.
So we feel like there is a lot of runway to add customers and very high return to doing that.
And then specificity on net and gross add yes.
What I can tell you is that so we reported 25 000 customer at Vocalocity for the fourth quarter we had set the accounts we had set that we have 23 000 at the end of the third quarter.
So you can do the net increase of roughly 2 000 we made some statements in the past about how to think about the size of these accounts.
So I think you can you can back into the net lines approximately net lines added and as Marc said both the core business without the leads that we sent to Vocalocity and Vocalocity are net line positive.
Okay thanks Wain.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Raghavan Sarathy from Dougherty &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Good morning thanks for taking my questions.
Two questions from my end.
Marc when you talked about Vocalocity business you indicated that the business accelerated since the acquisition.
Can you talk about the pricing environment of Vocalocity and also may be Dave if you can give us some sense from the ARPUs for that business that would be great? The second question is again Marc in your prepared comments you talked about revenue coming a little bit below what you had expected for the years.
So if you look at the core business maybe how should we think about maybe from a metrics perspective net growth about nets about? Thank you.
I’m sorry.
Could you cut that gross sub ads net sub ads.
Okay so let me try to – we try to take the – take those in sequence.
So first relative to the pricing environment and pricing structure on Vocalocity as you’re probably aware in the small and medium business market there will be headline pricing you will see in the website and then on a sale-by-sale basis customers will engage in that pricing discussion.
What we see is that ARPU per line is actually not terribly dissimilar from what we see on core Vonage business.
And it’s actually pretty consistent across the industry.
We are not doing a lot if any kind of headline rate plan pricing promotions.
The primary driver of variability in pricing tends to be device and device subsidy.
And that’s the thing that we’ve done most of our experimentation with try to understand if we remove the out of pocket cost as we’ve seen in the wireless industry and we’ve seen in our Vonage core business.
What kind of additional elasticity of demand can I get for us? And we’re assessing those results from some of those tests in the December and January timeframe.
In terms of – the revenue for the total business as I mentioned in the prepared comments the primary drivers we came into the year with lower net line ads.
And with the gross margin we have in a pre-marketing operating income in the $17 range that has a pretty profound implication on both revenues and EBITDA during the following year.
And while we did have positive gross net line ads – positive net line ads for the year and now we’ll continue to benefit from Vocalocity the next year.
We just didn’t have enough growth in 2013 for that the partial year that you’ve acquired those customers to offset some of the hurts in the prior year.
And of course some of that growth is also coming from BasicTalk as a percentage of the mix which has the lower revenue level.
I think the thing which you want to look at or think about going forward is what is the trajectory of total revenues for the asset base we’ve got right now.
And as we talked about you will see reported revenues we expect in the 7% to 9% range and if you take Vocalocity numbers as though we owned it for the entire year.
We fully expect to be in a 1% to 2% range.
If we achieve those you should see exceptional growth as you move into 2015 and get full year benefit of those gross line additions that we’ve added in 2014.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question operator.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Robert Routh from National Alliance Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning and thanks for taking the questions.
So quick one a few years back your reversing tour NOLs that you realized that you had hundreds of millions of dollars worth of them and you could actually use them.
But I know you didn’t reverse all of them I was curious given Vocalocity acquisition and the growth you are seeing is there any chances in some of the NOLs that you didn’t reverse before could become again in tax asset to the company.
And as a follow-up to that I’m wondering you can still subject to the 382 limitations than you were before on which limited to buyback activity? Yes we are not anticipating a material shift in our NOL position or our tax cash taxpaying status.
Our NOLs will expire at different rates for federal and state but that’s really the only change you are going see in that.
But Vocalocity did come within NOL as well and we’re in the process of working through exactly how to value that given our projected usage.
And the previous two limitations are you still subject to this? Yes it’s – we are but it’s much lower than it was and we’ve not seen in terms of executing on the buyback.
We don’t see an issue executing on the rest of the $100 million authorization this year regarding that or any other issues.
Okay great.
And then one other question obviously you guys have a ton of patents that are worth a ton of money that are on your balance sheet as much as anything due to the accounting loss around that.
I’m just curious if you can give us any sense I know would be kind of hard to do is to what those could be worth especially given recent announcements like the SEC having big carriers like Verizon and the AT&amp;T to start working with voice-over-IP trials and considering you guys have been doing this for such a long time I would think some of your patents may be a tremendous value to these carriers as they do those trials.
I’m wondering if you get a sense as to how to look at that in terms of the balance sheet value versus what they could be relative and also is there any opportunity for you given your what you have that others may need in order to do what they are trying to do? It’s a great question and astute observation I don’t think that perhaps it’s fully appreciated the strength and value of the patent portfolio that we built in the last few years difficult for me to decide what that value might be and how to place that on the balance sheet.
What you can look at is if you look at settlement costs for the company over last several years we’ve been extremely successful versus things in history.
And a big piece of that as a result of being able to have something a patent détente if you will and that creates a kind of neutral playing field with some players and that has certainly come into negotiations in conversations with in between cross licensing types of agreements.
In terms of going forward from monetization it’s not something I’m really able to comment on in terms of inquires we’ve had on folks wanting to license or offering of the opportunity for companies to license our patents but we do review that on a regular basis and consider whether it’s appropriate to make those available or encourage other entities to take a license so that they are not in violation of our intellectual properties.
So it is something we pursue but as you might imagine commenting on specific intellectual property negotiations would be highly inappropriate.
Yeah absolutely.
[Indiscernible] some of the patents for over billion some many people realize they had and no one gave it any value.
For that it seems you guys have some things that some other entities are going to need violating in the future.
So its kind of looking for hidden value there.
Thank you very much.
We have time for one more question operator.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Bill Dezellem from Tieton Capital Management.
Go ahead.
Bad play devils advocate for just a moment relative to your stock buyback and is very successful when the share prices was lower but have you any thoughts relative to holding back and reducing the buyback or stopping it for now given that the share price is up? And then the second question is relative to the net line additions doubling in December and January relative to October and November.
I just wanted to confirm that was Vocalocity I think I missed it in your opening remarks? And then how did that fit relative to your expectations? Well I will take the second question first and let Dave comment on the stock buyback.
So it was Vocalocity and it was net customers not to be confused with lines but their surrogates since we had pretty consistent level of the types of customers coming in.
And relative to expectations it exceeded our expectations.
We were frankly a little concerned about what the disruption could be we’ve actually already moved to the point of having Vonage business solutions branding on the website we’ve had at the last couple of weeks and we haven’t seen at this point any material negatives.
Perhaps there is some positives but we are pleased to actually at the responsiveness of some of the marketing activities that Wain and his team put into the marketplace.
And we think at least some of those are the kind of activities we want to continue with because they seem to be good financial investments.
So encouraged thus far difficult to draw a trend from eight weeks but we like the early progress.
Great now regarding your questions on the buyback I think first of all we continue to believe our stock is a good value.
And so we will plan as to continue to execute against the authorization which would average about $12 million a quarter is just the average of what we have left on that through the end of the year.
We are constantly assessing our capital structure and the highest use of capital.
Right now we’ve got the ability to execute the buyback and do the things we want to do on the growth side.
Those two things start to becoming conflict or one opportunities arise where there’s clear accretion we will direct capital that way.
I’d also note that if the situation changes through M&amp;A you have some market opportunity we would make a change.
We’d make that assessments and cross correct at the point.
I think as with the other thing I noticed is as with most buyback programs we do modulate the buyback at higher prices.
That’s why you may see some variability what we are buying back quarter-to-quarter.
So to your point there is some of that built-in as well which is very standard.
Thank you both.
Thanks.
With that operator we’ll conclude the call.
Thank everyone for joining us today.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference.
This does conclude today’s program.
You may all disconnect everyone have a great day.
Thank you.