Good morning and welcome to the Verizon First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr.
John Doherty Senior Vice President Investor Relations for Verizon.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning and welcome to our First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
I'm John Doherty.
With me this morning is Fran Shammo our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started let me remind you that our earnings release financial and operating information the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website.
This call is being webcast.
If you would like to listen to a replay you can do so from our website.
I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement.
Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties.
Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC which are available on our website.
This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also on our website.
Before we get started I'd like to draw your attention to a newly formatted financial and operating information file that we've made available to you on our website.
In addition to providing two years and eight quarters of historical financial information we've added some new customer and connection metrics in Wireless and Wireline which better reflect the trends in our business.
With that I will now turn the call over to Fran Shammo.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
At our investor meeting in late January we talked about our 2011 priorities our strong focus on business plan execution and translating revenue opportunities into profitable growth and shareowner value.
In looking at our first quarter results I'd say we are off to a very strong start.
Our Wireless business performed extremely well further solidifying our leadership position in the industry.
Our 4G LTE network deployment is going very well and our network performance has exceeded even our own very high expectations.
In one independent test after another our network's ability to deliver video and data with exceptional speed and performance has been unmatched.
Possibly even more impressive is the speed with which products and services are being developed for LTE.
Through our LTE rollout we have positioned ourselves on the leading edge of a whole new phase of Wireless market development.
Our first quarter Wireless results once again demonstrate our ability to effectively manage growth and sustain profitability.
We had a very strong quarter of device sales with 906 000 retail postpaid customer net additions.
In a period of less than eight weeks we activated 2.2 million iPhones and in two weeks we activated more than 260 000 of our first 4G LTE smartphone the HTC ThunderBolt at the premium price of $249.99.
In addition we added about 250 000 4G Internet devices to our retail postpaid base in the quarter and quickly sold out iPad 2 tablets in early March.
So we built good momentum throughout the quarter.
Our Wireless service EBITDA margin of 43.7% is a solid result once again demonstrates our ability to effectively manage the customer acquisition and retention costs associated with gaining market share and increasing smartphone penetration while sustaining our industry-leading profitable growth profile going forward.
In Wireline our first quarter results showed continued improvement on the top line with sequential EBITDA margin expansion for the fourth consecutive quarter.
Our improved year-over-year performance was driven by continued strength in FiOS and lower line loss rates resulting in consumer revenue growth of 1.9% as well as accelerated growth of 12.8% in Enterprise Strategic Services revenue.
In terms of cost management while the first quarter had some seasonal pressures we did realize the cost benefits of our 16 000 workforce reductions from last year.
On the strategic front we closed the Terremark acquisition on April 11 and significantly improved our competitive position in the rapidly evolving managed hosting and cloud services space.
With these highlights as a backdrop let's begin a more detailed review of the quarter on Slide 4 starting with a look at consolidated results.
Consolidated revenue growth in the first quarter accelerated to 5.3% year-over-year up sharply from 2.3% growth in the fourth quarter.
Total revenue growth in Wireless increased to 10.2%.
And while much of this growth was driven by equipment sales in this quarter we do expect to see future benefit from these sales in subsequent quarters in terms of higher recurring revenue streams.
So top line growth is what we expected and we were on track to meet our full-year revenue guidance of between 4% and 8% annual growth.
Our consolidated EBITDA for the first quarter totaled $8.5 billion up 3.8% year-over-year.
The 31.4% EBITDA margin is down about 50 basis points from a year ago primarily the result of the higher acquisition and retention costs in Wireless.
Again our expectation is for solid margin performance throughout the year with some fluctuation quarters featuring highly successful new device launches.
In terms of earnings we reported $0.51 for the quarter without any non-operational or special items to point out.
This compares with $0.48 in the first quarter a year ago after adjustments for the impact of divested operations and non-operational charges in that period.
With our 4G deployment well underway our capitalized interest will be significantly lower this year.
As a result Wireless interest expense will reflect about $150 million for each quarter this year.
In terms of income taxes the effective income tax rate attributable to Verizon for the first quarter was 30%.
For the full year 2011 we are anticipating an effective tax rate to be in a range consistent with the past three quarters post the Frontier and Alltel divestitures.
Both of these items were fully contemplated in the overall earnings guidance we provided in January.
With first quarter growth of 6.3% we are on track to meet our stated objective of 5% to 8% growth off an adjusted 2010 base of $2.08 per share.
Let's turn to cash flow and capital spending on the next slide.
In addition to the higher capital spending this quarter cash flows from operations were impacted by higher acquisition and retention costs in Wireless due to the iPhone in the first quarter funding of our full-year pension obligation which was $392 million.
In addition the first half of last year included cash flows from the divested properties.
In terms of free cash flow we generated $672 million in the first quarter.
And although this is lower than our recent trend our cash flow outlook for the year remains very strong.
Many of the cash flows were timing and this quarter did not impact our cash management planning for the year.
I would also say that there is no change in our thinking with regard to the timing of a Verizon Wireless dividend to its parent companies which we believe will begin in 2012.
In the first quarter total CapEx was $4.4 billion of which $2.7 billion was Wireless.
While we expect overall capital spending in 2011 to be essentially flat compared to 2010 we have started the year more aggressively in Wireless spending a bit more early in the year on 4G LTE consistent with our overall deployment plans and continuing to add growth capacity to our 3G network.
Looking forward we will continue to expand our 4G LTE footprint and invest in necessary capital in 3G to stay ahead of the data demand curve.
Wireline capital of $1.5 billion was down 6.4% year-over-year.
I would point out that we started last year in a very conservative manner prudently spending only $3.4 billion in the first quarter given the higher level of economic uncertainty at that time.
In 2011 we will be very disciplined in the terms of overall capital spending matching our spending with growth opportunities.
Our balance sheet remains strong and we ended the quarter with net debt of $47.2 billion and a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of about 1.4x.
On Slide 6 we've displayed first quarter revenues for each of the last three years which is a good illustration of the transformation and growth of our revenue base.
At our investor meeting in January we talked about this changing revenue mix and how we've organized ourselves around the growth markets of the future based on a foundation of superior high-IQ networks that provide the platforms for innovation that we think are unmatched in our industry.
Today 77% of our revenues are in higher growth areas a sharp increase over the course of the last two years.
As we look forward we are big believers that our high-IQ networks give us a strong strategic position and put us at the center of the trends that are driving growth in our industry.
In all these strategic areas with our continued emphasis on advancing the deployment of our 4G LTE network in Wireless with our all-fiber network in mass markets and through our ever-improving global and cloud computing capabilities for Enterprise customers we are well-positioned to drive higher top line growth.
Let's now move into a review of the segments starting with Wireless on Slide 7.
As I said earlier our Wireless business had a very impressive quarter with growth in retail customers and ARPU driving service revenue growth and profitability.
Total revenue grew to $16.9 billion in the quarter up 10.2% year-over-year with total service revenue up 6.3% with the majority of our device sales occurring in the back half of the first quarter.
We are expecting to see higher service revenue growth in the second quarter.
In terms of retail postpaid ARPU growth while we reported year-over-year growth of 2.2% in the first quarter the month of March was 2.8% higher than last year which is a good indication of increased revenue and ARPU growth in the second quarter.
In terms of new connections we added a total of 1.8 million this quarter with 906 000 net retail postpaid customers and 897 000 wholesale and other connections including machine-to-machine.
While our focus continues to be very much on the retail postpaid market which continues to be the vast majority of our customer base we are also broadening our portfolio of machine-to-machine connections in a number of areas: vehicle tracking meter reading and alarm monitoring to name a few.
And we expect this to be an area of growth for us.
We generated $6.3 billion of EBITDA in the first quarter up 1.7% year-over-year.
And while growth in this quarter was impacted by acquisition and retention cost our service EBITDA margin of 43.7% remains industry leading.
We believe that our Wireless EBITDA margins while they may fluctuate in a given quarter related to successful device introductions will end up in the mid-40% range for the year.
The incremental recurring revenue from smartphone and 4G device sales will help to mitigate the higher acquisition and retention costs.
In addition as I noted in January we have also identified more than $1 billion in cost saving opportunities in Wireless this year.
I am confident that our Wireless team will meet this challenge and achieve these savings.
Let's take a closer look at data growth and device sales on Slide 8.
Total data revenue grew $1 billion or 22.3% year-over-year and now represents 38% of total service revenue.
A key driver of data growth in 2011 will be the increased penetration of smartphones in our retail postpaid phone base.
To that end we made good progress ending the quarter with penetration of 32%.
Roughly 60% of all phones sold in the quarter were smartphones up from 36% just one year ago.
65% of all smartphone sales were new to the category meaning they were existing customers with feature phones or new Verizon customers.
With regard to the iPhone specifically 48% of upgrades were new to the smartphone category meaning the $30 monthly data plan is incremental revenue.
About 22% of our iPhone activations represent new Verizon customers.
In terms of 4G LTE we've seen strong demand for the HTC ThunderBolt and for the PC Cards.
On March 29 we introduced our first 4G mobile hotspot device and this past Monday we announced the availability of our second one.
We think these 4G mobile hotspots will be very popular with customers as they essentially allow any WiFi-enabled device to function as a 4G LTE networked device.
We expect demand for our 4G LTE products to strengthen as more smartphones tablets and hotspots are added to our device portfolio.
This includes the recent launch of the Novatel and Samsung mobile hotspots as well as the addition of new 4G LTE smartphones in April May and beyond.
Clearly our LTE network performance our continued build-out and the successful early product launches are having a very positive impact on the development and strength of the entire LTE ecosystem.
As customer acceptance and enthusiasm for smartphones tablets and all kinds of connected devices gains momentum and becomes more integral to the people's personal and work life innovation will drive this entire category and expand the overall market.
With regard to the further expansion of our LTE footprint we announced 38 markets in our initial launch in December covering about 110 million PoPs [Point-of-Presence].
Since then we've announced more than 100 additional markets in places like Detroit Memphis Milwaukee Louisville Minneapolis Sacramento and Honolulu to name just a few.
By the end of the year we plan to be in about 175 markets covering more than 185 million PoPs.
Let's take a closer look at ARPU next on Slide 9.
Throughout last year we saw accelerating postpaid ARPU growth starting with 0.6% year-over-year growth in the first quarter and steadily ramping to 2.5% growth in the fourth quarter.
In the first quarter of 2011 retail postpaid ARPU growth was 2.2%.
We attribute this to a few factors but most notably to late sales in the early part of the quarter in anticipation of the iPhone 4 debut on our network in February.
As I said earlier with much stronger device sales from that point forward our exit rate for ARPU growth heading into the second quarter was much higher at 2.8%.
Data revenue continues to be sourced primarily from web and email services which increased to $3.2 billion this quarter up more than 38% from a year ago.
Messaging which makes up about 1/3 of data revenue is still showing growth up 7% on a year-over-year basis.
At the end of the quarter we had a total of 6.1 million Internet devices in our postpaid base with 364 000 net adds in the first quarter driven by MiFi devices and 4G PC Cards.
As we would expect our churn metrics for this quarter were excellent.
Our retail postpaid churn was 1.01% improving by four basis points year-over-year.
We are encouraged by the strong demand exiting the quarter and the positive implications for increased revenue and ARPU.
You can expect us to effectively deliver both growth and profitability with a focus on gaining share in the retail postpaid market increasing the penetration of smartphones and selling more Internet devices which will drive continued data revenue growth.
Let's move to our Wireline segment next on Slide 10.
As I said earlier we are seeing an improvement in revenue trends.
The 2.2% year-over-year decline in the first quarter is 60 basis points better than the 2.8% decline last quarter.
And if we exclude the effects of the international wholesale pricing change total Wireline revenues were down 0.7% year-over-year.
On the consumer side our FiOS broadband and video products continue to drive a significant shift in our revenue mix.
FiOS now accounts for 54% of consumer revenue up from 45% a year ago.
FiOS revenue in the quarter grew 23.7% year-over-year and FiOS ARPU is more than $146.
On the Global Enterprise side we had positive year-over-year growth driven by strong strategic services growth of 12.8%.
As with FiOS in the consumer market strategic services are transforming our revenue mix now representing 46% of total Enterprise.
Within this category advanced services like Managed Network Solutions Contact Center Solutions IP Communications and our cloud offerings are growing very nicely.
From a profitability perspective segment EBITDA increased $211 million or 9.7% resulting in a 250 basis point year-over-year improvement in our EBITDA margin to 23.6%.
The main reason behind the improvement was our workforce reduction initiatives in 2010 which helped reduce our overall cost of labor.
Sequentially we had a fourth consecutive quarter of EBITDA margin improvement with an increase of 10 basis points to 23.6%.
We achieved this through a combination of revenue stabilization and effective cost management.
As the typical first quarter our cost pressures were offset by the effect of the workforce reductions.
Our goal is to achieve margin expansions in 2011 through continuous improvement throughout the year.
And while it is unlikely that our workforce reductions in 2011 will come close to what we experienced last year our focus on reducing our cost structure will be vigilant.
Let's take a closer look at the mass markets on Slide 11.
Within the mass markets category consumer revenue of $3.4 billion grew 1.9% versus last year.
Consumer ARPU grew to $90.55 an increase of 10.5% from a year ago.
The continued penetration of our broadband and video products have increased the scale of our FiOS platform and is now significant enough to more than offset the secular and competitive pressures in this part of the business.
We had another solid quarter of customer growth in FiOS TV adding 192 000 subscribers for a total of 3.7 million TV customers.
Our FiOS TV penetration at the end of the quarter was 29%.
On the broadband side we added 207 000 new FiOS Internet customers in the quarter.
Our FiOS Internet customer base increased to 4.3 million representing 33% penetration of homes open for sale.
By adding in our 4.2 million high-speed Internet or DSL customers we ended the quarter with a total of 8.5 million broadband connections.
This reflects an overall increase of 98 000 broadband connections which marks our best sequential growth since the second quarter of 2009.
As I have noted in the past our customer satisfaction ratings are very high and our churn rates are very low.
Our renewed focus on driving penetration in existing markets has been effective and we're pleased with the overall progress in FiOS.
We were off to a good start this year and our pipeline for TV services are 43% year-over-year.
Let's move next to our business markets on Slide 12.
While we are seeing some signs of improvement revenues in the business market continue to be challenged by economic pressures.
Global Enterprise revenue was up 1% year-over-year.
Strategic Services drove the year-over-year improvement led by a very strong growth in Advanced Services such as Managed Network Call Center IP Communications and our cloud offerings.
As I've said this category of services is becoming a larger part of our revenues and we are incenting our sales force to sell these solutions to our Enterprise customers.
As we experienced last quarter the absolute dollar growth in Strategic Services outpaced the dollar decline in core Enterprise Services.
In Global Wholesale revenues declined 11.2% year-over-year.
As we've discussed our route rationalization strategy has resulted in a substantial decline in International Voice revenue worth $162 million this quarter on a year-over-year basis.
Since these price changes were initiated in mid-2010 I'd say we have a few more quarters to work through before the comparative impact of these actions moderates.
Absent these effects first quarter Global Wholesale revenues declined 5% year-over-year.
This decline is primarily in Domestic Voice where we continue to experience secular pressures and lower usage volumes.
I will wrap up here with the chart we used at our investor meeting in January showing the keys to success in terms of executing our business model.
We had a solid first quarter and a quality start to the year.
Our early performance gives us great confidence that we are on track to meet our financial objectives and continue to position ourselves for future growth and profitability.
As I mentioned earlier we’ve built great momentum and have entered the second quarter in very good shape.
We're seeing continued demand for our Apple products and 4G LTE devices with more smartphones tablets and Internet devices coming to market shortly.
As such we expect Service revenue growth and ARPU accretion to accelerate with each quarter this year.
Our FiOS customer pipeline is very healthy and we are very excited to add Terremark one of the premier assets in hosting and cloud services to our portfolio of global assets and capabilities enhancing our competitive position around the cloud opportunity and contributing to our growth.
I'll stop here and turn it back to John so we can open up the call to your questions.
Thanks Fran.
Brad let's open it up for questions please.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Jason Armstrong of Goldman Sachs.
Great.
Thanks.
Good morning.
First on postpaid ARPU.
Fran you gave some helpful commentary on the exit rates at 2.8% in March.
I guess what that implies though is that the entry rates in January were probably roughly 1.5% growth which is a step down from the fourth quarter rates and it seemed to imply to me that the 4G laptop cards you launched in December I guess it’s logical that you would've over indexed sales here early in the quarter which generally carry a little bit lower ARPU and I'm wondering if you can offer granularity.
Is that what happened? Just trying to put a finer point on sort of this progress through the quarter you had on ARPU.
And the second question on Wireless margins.
You talked about lumpiness in margins attached to handset launches obviously two big launches in the quarter with iPhone and ThunderBolt but it was only a partial quarter for both.
So does that mean that in 2Q you'd expect a bit of incremental margin dilution as we get a full quarter of those devices? Thanks.
Thank you Jason.
Okay so let's address the ARPU first.
So if you look at what we did we came out of December at 2.5% as I said in the previous comment.
We had a very soft January.
We continued to maintain our upgrades.
If you recall when we launched the iPhone initially we had a week of just upgrades to our current base which we felt was important to show our loyalty to our customers who stayed with us even though we didn't have the iPhone.
And then we launched the iPhone and we had people who were waiting for that device.
So again the first half of the quarter was soft.
There was really no incremental ARPU if you will in that first half given that sales were low and upgrades continued.
But as we launched the iPhone and if you think about it it was only a half a quarter but it's also important to realize that when we launched the iPhone initially we only launched it through our direct channel and a couple major retailers.
And then in the beginning of March we launched it to the rest of our national retailers and some of our regional retailers and we really weren't 100% out there with the distribution until mid-March.
The second piece is is that we only had two weeks of sales worth on the LTE device on smartphones.
And then finally we just launched the 4G device at the last day of the month.
So I think if you look at all of this and you look at the pro rata of access on these devices that's why we only generated 2.2% of growth but we accelerated to 2.8%.
And as we said we think that this will just continue to accelerate as the year goes on as we launch these initial devices.
Now getting into your margin comment no I don't think that you'll see a decline in the second quarter.
The fluctuation I believe will come when a new device from Apple is launched whenever that may be and that we will be on the first time in equal footing with our competitors on a new phone hitting the market which will also be a global device.
So I think there will be some fluctuations when that happens but we don't anticipate any fluctuation in the second quarter.
That's helpful.
Thanks Fran.
Thank you Jason.
Thanks Brad.
Our next question will come from John Hodulik of UBS.
Okay Thanks guys.
Quick question on the Wireless is 50% smartphone penetration still the target? Because I think it implies some accelerating penetration gains which would also support your view on the improvements in ARPU.
And then secondly on the Wireline side you showed some progress there and I guess you'll show some more progress when you lap the changes in the wholesale pricing.
Is it possible that we see some Wireline growth by the end of the year in Wireline? Thanks John.
So first off on the 50% penetration yes we still are very confident in the 50%.
And let me just be clear here because at the end of December we labeled that we were at 26% penetration but we changed the way we were calculating our penetration.
So I want to make sure everybody's clear.
We were kind of -- we were doing a different calculation than the rest of the industry so we changed to equal the rest of the industry so that we had an apples-to-apples comparison.
So if you look at the 26% we disclosed in December it really was 28%.
Now we ended this quarter at 32%.
This I believe is going to accelerate as we continue to launch and have a full month of Apple on the decks.
Also with the LTE launches as you know we only had two weeks of our first HTC handset.
We are coming out with our Samsung handset very shortly here and then LG will be following.
So we will have up to three devices launched by the second quarter.
So again that's going to accelerate the growth.
And yes we are very confident that we'll hit the 50% penetration.
And then on the Wireline side of the house I think as we continue here we are confident that we can continue to expand the EBITDA margin in Wireline.
Obviously there is a lot of cost reduction that has to take place.
We continue to work out and look at the entire logistics ecosystem.
We are continuing to reduce real estate.
Last year we reduced over $7 million and our target is equal for this year.
We have a whole garage study being taking place and we are closing garages and consolidating on that.
So as you look at that continued margin I think that's one piece of it.
But as you mentioned as we work ourselves out of the International Voice decline year-over-year and I think that will happen entering into the third quarter.
If the economy starts to stimulate a bit and we continue to obviously penetrate on the FiOS side I think there is a good point where we could actually see some top line growth out of the Wireline segment.
Okay.
Thanks Fran.
Thanks John.
Our next question will come from Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley.
Thanks very much.
You talked about closing the Terremark transaction Fran.
Are you able to give us any color on sort of headline trends for Q1 for Terremark? And then I think in the past in March you talked about unlimited pricing reviewing that on your new devices in the summer timeframe.
Perhaps you could give us an update on that? Thanks.
Thank you Simon.
So on Terremark we closed the transaction on April 11.
We'll have our first full quarter here in the second quarter.
Terremark continued to grow at their steady pace of 20% through the first quarter.
We believe that that will continue into the second quarter and obviously Bob Toohey and his team on the business side have a lot of integration activity going on with Manny and his team and we're going to hit the streets strong with an offer here a collaborative offer between the former Verizon business and the Terremark assets.
So I think we're off to a good start there.
On the unlimited pricing we are going to be going to a tier pricing in midsummer this year.
That is a definite and you will hear more of that as we get there.
But yes we will be going to a tiered pricing for both 3G and 4G devices.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks Simon.
Our next question will come from Michael Rollins of Citi Investment Research.
Thanks.
One question and just a couple of housekeeping things.
On the question can you talk a little bit more about the business markets particularly what you're seeing in the small and medium end of the market? And are you seeing any more competition in cable there? And then from a housekeeping perspective can you just give us the Wireless replacement rates device replacement rates during the quarter for postpaid and where the Wireless business ended on a net debt basis for the quarter? Thanks.
Okay.
Thanks Mike.
So on the -- first off on the SMB I think what we'll see is first if you look at on the Wireline side of the house and the overlap that we have there obviously we are at a disadvantage when you think about the DSL and the Voice strategy that we have on the former copper plant.
We're at a disadvantage to cable in that area.
But if you look at our FiOS and where we have passed the PRAM [Parallel Random Access Machine] and actually connected to PRAM in small business our growth rate there is 37% year-over-year.
So there is a difference between what market on the overlap of the Wireline assets we're talking about.
So I think that's important to note.
But from an overall perspective I think we're flat.
We've made some improvement year-over-year but I will tell you I'm not happy with the progress in the small-business arena and Bobbie Mudge and his team are attacking that.
But even within the Bob Toohey organization and Verizon business outside of the Wireline footprint with the Terremark acquisition I think we have some unique offers that we can now make to the small business arena around cloud and I think that will help some of the offset of the former MCI mass markets which continues to decline.
From a housekeeping perspective on net debt from an overall perspective on net debt we ended the quarter as I said at $47.2 billion and Wireless ended at about around $12 billion.
Great.
Thanks.
And then just the Wireless device replacement rate for postpaid if you have that for the quarter that would be great too.
Now Michael just to clarify when you say replacements rate you mean upgrades? Yes.
Okay.
So just a couple things around that.
The other one point I want to make on the debt side of the house is that we have about as I said we have a $4 billion dollars maturity coming up here in May that will come out of Wireless.
So there's a maturity of about $4 billion.
So that will take the net debt down on the Wireless side as well.
Then on the upgrade side of the house as we said that 60% of our sales were smartphones altogether.
And as I said before in January I thought there was a major opportunity for us because our featured base as part of our postpaid base was significantly higher and this was an area where we thought that we could make some good inroads into upgrading our feature phone base into a smartphone.
This quarter 56% of our upgrades in total and as you see from our release we did about 3% a quarter so -- 3% a month so it was about 9% for the quarter.
So 56% of them were upgrades of feature phones or multimedia phones to our smartphones.
So when you think about that if you look at a feature phone which has no data plan today that's an incremental $30 of ARPU and on our multimedia they had a $10 feature plan which now we get an incremental $20 of ARPU.
So I think from that perspective I do believe that we still have some very good inroads here from our feature phone perspective going forward.
We still have 62% of our base that are still on feature phones.
And then on the 4G side of the house if you look at the adds that we did 35% of them were new to category.
And when I say that they were also feature phones who upgraded into that.
Now that's part of the 56% that I talked before.
But just specifically on the 4G device 35% of them were upgrades.
Thanks very much.
Our next question will come from Brett Feldman of Deutsche Bank.
Thanks for taking the question and I really appreciate all the color around the iPhone the ThunderBolt.
So I'm just going to ask for a bit more.
If we just assume that you had a very strong launch around the iPhone particularly to the existing customers it kind of looks like as you exited the quarter both devices might have been selling at about the same pace so I'm wondering if that's a reasonable conclusion here.
And then you had mentioned how the iPhone didn't launch with full distribution but that's expanded.
Is that the same approach you're taking with your LTE devices or are you actually putting them in all of your channels on day one? Yes so Brett let me address a couple of that.
So on the iPhone launch we were cautious because we were not sure obviously of the demand that was there for the phone and we wanted to monitor the supply and the demand so that we did not run into a backlog situation.
From an HTC perspective we are launching that across the board.
So it is not a similar effect there.
Now if you look at the iPhone 78% of the iPhone were upgrades and 22% of those iPhones were new to our base.
So if you do the math there you can look at -- the iPhone dropped right down into our net adds for the quarter.
And then if you look at 4G and you add that in 54% of our net adds were consistent with both the iPhone launch and the HTC launch.
So 54% of our net adds came from those two devices alone.
So I think that from a pace perspective we are very very pleased with the HTC handset launch.
You have seen probably some of the articles I have seen where people have tested it.
This is a true 4G device.
You can put as much lipstick on 3 to make it a 4 but this is truly a 4G device with the speeds of 4G and I think people are impressed and people will make their decisions.
So out of the gate we're very happy with the volume and I think that this will just continue as we continue to launch more 4G smartphone devices coming here in the next few weeks.
So just one quick follow-up here I mean you're now selling the most popular 3G smartphone on the market in the iPhone.
You're selling the most popular 4G smartphone on the market.
I know it's early days but are you seeing anything meaningfully different in the way people are using the devices? Not really.
I think that with the 4G speeds obviously people are consuming more data.
That will be expected given the video speeds and some of the TV download speeds.
But keep in mind though that the 4G network is so much more efficient than the 3G network so even with that incremental usage on 4G that even at the same price of 3G the profitability is higher.
So it behooves us to move as many people to 4G as we possibly can and you will see us doing that proactively in certain markets.
So from a different standpoint yes they're consuming more on 4G than they are in 3G but we expected that.
All right.
Thanks Brett.
Our next question will come from Phil Cusick of JPMC.
Thank you for taking my call.
So first I want to see if you can give a little more detail on some of these things.
You talked about the smartphone mix picking up from 60%.
Can you give us what the March smartphone mix might've been as you saw that ARPU acceleration? Phil I don't have that detail.
I just had it for the quarter.
Okay.
And then just following up on Brett's as well the 4G data usage you said is higher.
Can you give us an idea of what that is? Are you disclosing [ph] at this time? At this point we're not going to disclose the usage on 4G.
It's really way too early to deal with that because as you know as people get a initial handset they initially download a lot of applications so usage tends to be higher than the normal average.
And we've only been at this HTC handset for 2 weeks so I think it's premature to release anything like that.
Okay.
I'll try one more swing and then maybe I'll be out.
So you talked about the iPhone being a global device.
When that launches do you anticipate that being a 4G device and sort of being at par in terms of speeds with your other 4G? Yes I can't answer for Apple's product launch to be honest with you.
All I know is it will be a global device.
At that point I think we'll have to go to Apple to find out exactly what that device will have.
Nice try Phil.
All right.
I tried.
Thanks a lot Fran.
All right.
Thanks Phil.
Our next question will come from Mike McCormack of Nomura Securities.
[Technical Difficulty] Our next question will come from David Barden Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
[Technical Difficulty] Mike McCormack Nomura Securities.
Yes just a couple of quick questions.
First not to beat the ARPU thing to death here but you guys have identified obviously some back-end loading of the smartphones and that's -- I think that's good color.
But thinking about ARPU growth can you sort of identify the offsets which might be coming in the form of voice pressure from family share roaming.
And then how should we think about data devices like tablets and sticks and cards and stuff like that that may carry a lower overall ARPU which could sort of have an impact on the growth rate but obviously driving some decent adds.
And then secondly and it might be premature but thinking about the iPhone guidance for the year based on 11 million the 2.2 million tracking a bit lower not surprising given a partial quarter but it's also the launch quarter.
So just trying to figure out what's your thought processes there? You obviously were anticipating a refresh at some point during the year that obviously could boost that as well but just some thoughts around that would be great.
Yes sure.
Thanks Mike.
So from an ARPU's perspective from a Voice ARPU perspective we are obviously seeing a decline there but it is a slowing decline year-over-year.
So yes that is putting pressure on us but it is putting a pressure on us at a slower rate and we view that as that will continue into the future.
Also from a Voice ARPU perspective as we launch the iPhone I guess I would be remiss to say that the call quality on the iPhone has been spectacular on the 3G CDMA network.
And obviously we think that our Voice will continue to slow as we add more iPhones and people realize the quality of the voice network and the data network there.
So I think that'll be fine.
From a tablet and a broadband access device perspective there is some small dilution going on from the old price plans to the new price plans but we don't see that as being a drag to the overall ARPU as we continue to penetrate into the tablet scenario into the 4G MiFi devices and the usage that the MiFi devices will bring and the tiered pricing that we already have related to our data products.
So I don't see that as being a major issue going forward.
And as far as the 2.2 million in the first quarter and the 11 million overall we're sticking with our 11 million view for our guidance purposes.
Great.
Thanks Fran.
I appreciate it.
Thank you Mike.
Thanks Mike.
Our next question will come from David Barden of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thanks guys for taking the question.
Just two if I could maybe Fran just starting with the debt raise recently this past quarter and kind of bulking up on the balance sheet both kind of $9 billion-or-so with $7 billion going into cash.
Obviously we've got the Terremark deal cash going out the door but is this cash that we put on the balance sheet really about trying to avoid the necessity of upstreaming dividends or maintaining leverage at the Verizon Wireless business? Because I did notice that you guys kind of called out that specifically in the call today that you didn't want to have to do anything on the dividend until next year.
But because you're not you had to go into the markets and raise this money and put cash on the balance sheet.
I'm just wondering if you could kind of talk for your thinking there.
And I think the second question if I could is just maybe more strategically thinking about the industry consolidation.
I think you guys have come out as fairly neutral on AT&amp;T's prospective acquisition of T-Mobile.
With the caveat as long as it doesn't lead towards incremental regulation of the industry could you talk a little bit about what kinds of regulations you think would be the kinds of regulations that would get you up off the bench to kind of come in and oppose this deal? Thanks.
Okay.
Thank you David.
So first on the debt side of the house yes we actually went out into the market because we have some debt maturities both within corporate and Wireline this year that needed to be refinanced and we initially did it.
The interest rates were so well we took advantage of the interest rates and raised it to $6.25 billion.
We have about $2 billion worth of maturities coming in the back half of the year.
We had a $500 million refinancing that took place in the first quarter.
We also wanted to re [indiscernible] finance some of our CP paper commercial paper so we did that as well.
And due to the lucrativeness of the interest rates we had we also decided to pre-fund our pension plan of $400 million both to take effect of the interest rate and the arbitrage on that compared to the return that that $400 million we'd get in the pension plan that would help us alleviate some of our future cash flow obligations into the plan.
So this really was all-around just the refinancing and rebalancing of our balance sheet and just for general other observations.
And as you said to pay for the Terremark and also to refinance the Terremark debt.
And then from an AT&amp;T and a T-Mobile merger perspective I guess the comment I would have is we have to let that go through due process with the federal government.
And we'll sit and wait and see.
Obviously we will then take a view of -- if it's a market-based condition merger we will be fine with that.
If it's a regulatory merger then we'll have a harder time with it.
Now as far as what may have been a little bit off here is I'm not going to go into what types of things we may object to but obviously we are very strong on where we stand with net neutrality.
We are very strong where we stand with data roaming and the positions that the FCC have recently taken there and we will not stand by if there are certain regulations put on us that we have to deliver certain things at a fixed price that's set by a regulatory arm that has no authority over that regulation of price.
So we'll sit back let it go through its due process and then we'll see what happens.
All right guys.
Thanks.
Thank you David.
Our next question will come from Tim Horan of Oppenheimer.
Thanks guys.
Two broader questions.
Fran on the Managed Services front I know it's early in the process here but do you find yourself bumping up against more some of the traditional IT outsourcers in that market? And do you have the capabilities you need in managed services to at this point or do you need more acquisitions? And then secondly on the smartphone side could you talk about ultimately what you'd like to see in terms of number of suppliers on the different platforms and maybe market share platform? And related to this the subsidies for handsets do you think we're at peak run rates here and they can start to decline or do you think we'll see handset subsidies on the smartphones increase for awhile? Thanks.
Okay.
Thanks Tim.
So on the Managed Services side I think that we have the portfolio of assets that we need to be very successful in this piece of the business and I think we've shown that with some of the wins that we have publicly stated here in the past.
And you're absolutely right we are actually entering into a market where we're competing with many different players depending upon where you are in the globe.
Especially here in the U.S.
we go up against all of the integrators and some of the other service providers.
But outside the globe we hit on a bunch of different players like Tata and InfoSystems and people like that.
So it depends where you are in the globe but we think we’re very well-positioned with our portfolio.
And we've shown this with our strategic services growth of 12.8%.
Some of the growth this quarter and the reason it jumped up was driven by our Managed Services business.
So I think we're starting to really gain new ground here.
We have proven ourselves with some of the major undertakings that we've taken with some of our announced deals with Matsui and JetBlue and others.
So I think we've got a good stance and I don't think we need to do any more major acquisitions in this portfolio.
As far as the smartphone side of the house and subsidies I think first we're charging a premium on the 4G smartphone so the subsidy obviously there is less than others but we'll have to see how the market goes.
And I would assume that this market will mature this similar that the feature phone market matured over the years where as more players become into the marketplace and we have new entrants like maybe a Huawei down the road there will be put pressure on the other manufacturers to get more efficient and reduce price and then that will help our subsidy go.
So I think the maturity of the market and the ecosystem will eventually take care of itself.
Thanks Tim.
Our final question will come from Jonathan Chaplin of Credit Suisse.
Thanks for taking the question.
So one question AT&amp;T gave us one or two of the justifications for the deal getting access to a lot more spectrum and increasing their cell site density quickly.
I think up to this transaction they're going to have significant -- 50 megahertz or so more spectrum than you and a cell site density which is 25% to 35% more dense than yours as well.
Can you talk about how you see your spectrum needs evolving over the course of the next three-to-five years? And what do you think you need to do from a cell site density perspective to keep up with the rapidly growing data demand you're seeing? Thanks.
Sure.
Thanks Jonathan.
So as we’ve said before we think we're in a very good spectrum position.
We think we have the spectrum we need and we're in a good position until about the year 2015 at this point.
And we will continue to keep our eyes open to see where we need to buy spectrum or secure spectrum.
But right now we're in a very very good position.
I'm not going to speak to the competitor.
You can ask those questions as to why they did this and why they needed the spectrum but I think we're in a very good position.
Thanks Fran.
Thanks to all of the participants that joined us this morning.
And with that Brad let me hand it back to you to conclude the call.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Verizon Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr.
John Doherty Senior Vice President Investor Relations for Verizon.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
I'm John Doherty.
With me this morning are Fran Shammo Verizon's Chief Financial Officer; and Lowell McAdam; Verizon's newly-elected President and Chief Executive Officer effective August 1.
Before we get started let me remind you that our earnings release financial and operating information the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website.
This call is being webcast.
If you would like to listen to a replay you can do so from our website.
I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement.
Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties.
Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC which are available on our website.
This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also on our website.
Before we get started I'd like to point out that our second quarter includes the results of Terremark since the acquisition closed in early April.
As we go through the presentation we will point out the effects on certain growth rates as appropriate.
With that I will now turn the call over to Fran.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
Before we get into the details let me start with some brief overview commentary adding my perspective to our second quarter results.
We had a very strong quarter continuing the positive momentum from earlier this year.
Our results clearly demonstrate that we are executing well in our key areas of focus and driving profitable growth.
Our top line revenue growth accelerated to 6.3% year-over-year which is a 100 basis point increase from our first quarter growth rate of 5.3%.
This was our strongest quarter of consolidated revenue growth in 2.5 years.
In Wireless we had an outstanding quarter of customer growth with strong demand for smartphones and Internet data devices and increasing service revenue driving total revenue growth of 10.2%.
We also saw continued improvement in Wireline revenue with higher Global Enterprise revenue driven primarily by improvements in Strategic Services.
EBITDA margins this quarter expanded sequentially in both Wireless and Wireline as we continue to focus on driving top line growth as well as improving our operating efficiency.
In Wireless our EBITDA service margin expanded 170 basis points from first quarter to 45.4% an impressive result in light of increased postpaid customer growth continued smartphone penetration and Internet device expansion.
In Wireline the EBITDA margin increased by 20 basis points to 23.8% our fifth consecutive quarter of margin improvement through a combination of better revenue performance and our continued focus on cost containment.
Our second quarter earnings of $0.57 per share is a very solid result up from $0.51 in the first quarter and demonstrates good execution and the strength of our business model and the strategy that we discussed with you back in January.
With that let's begin a more detailed review of the quarter on Slide 4 starting with consolidated results.
As I just highlighted we have strong top line growth in the second quarter with consolidated revenue increasing to $27.5 billion up $1.6 billion or 6.3% year-over-year.
By capitalizing on the growth opportunities in Wireless FiOS and enterprise Strategic Services together with improving our wholesale business our consolidated revenue trends continue to be very positive.
Our consolidated EBITDA for the second quarter totaled $9 billion up 5.2% year-over-year.
On a sequential basis our consolidated EBITDA margin expanded 130 basis points to 32.7%.
In terms of earnings again as I highlighted in the overview we had a very strong quarter reporting $0.57 of EPS without any nonoperational or special items.
This compares favorably with $0.51 last quarter and $0.51 in the second quarter of 2010 after making the necessary adjustments for the impact of divested operations and nonoperational charges in that period.
So a solid performance as far as driving growth to the bottom line representing an 11.8% increase in EPS on both a sequential and year-over-year basis.
Year-to-date earnings totaled $1.07 per share up 8.1% over the same time last year.
Again our overall first half performance confirms the strength of the business and the path that we are on to create long-term shareholder value.
Let's turn to cash flow and capital spending on Slide 5.
Our cash flow results for the quarter showed a significant sequential improvement driven by higher revenue growth margin expansion and favorable changes in working capital some of which were timing-related as I indicated last quarter.
In terms of capital expenditures while we've had a higher level of spending in the first half compared with last year our additional investments are in support of increased customer volumes and higher revenue growth in Wireless.
First half CapEx this year totaled $8.9 billion of which $5.4 billion was Wireless.
As we discussed before we started this year more aggressively in Wireless.
To date our network spending of 3G is well ahead of our capacity requirements for the full year and we have also spent a bit more on 4G LTE consistent with our deployment plans.
Based on our current forecast I expect Wireless capital expenditures to decrease in the second half of 2011.
In Wireline capital expenditures totaled $3.1 billion for the first half which is down 5.9% year-over-year.
On a consolidated basis capital spending in the second half will be lower than the first half.
For the full year we are targeting capital expenditures to be similar to 2010 at about $16.5 billion.
In terms of free cash flow we've generated $3.9 billion for the first 6 months and although this is lower than recent trends our cash flow outlook for the balance of the year remains very strong especially in light of the lower capital requirements.
From a balance sheet perspective our financial position remains strong.
Net debt at the end of June was $47.7 billion and our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio remained at about 1.4x.
We also closed the Terremark acquisition and refinanced about $800 million of their debt at more favorable rates.
On Slide 6 we displayed second quarter revenues for each of the last 3 years which is a good illustration of the transformation and growth of our revenue base.
As we've pointed out in prior quarters about 77% of our revenues are in strategic areas of higher growth up from about 70% 2 years ago.
With our continued emphasis on advancing the deployment of our 4G LTE network in Wireless with our all fiber network in mass markets and through our global reach and cloud computing capabilities for enterprise customers we continue to be well positioned to drive higher top line growth as the strategic transformation of Verizon continues.
Let's now move into a review of the segments starting with Wireless on Slide 7.
Our Wireless business had a very impressive quarter with accelerated growth in postpaid connections higher service revenue growth continued strong postpaid phone ARPU growth improvement in customer churn and greater profitability and free cash flow.
Total revenue grew to $17.3 billion in the quarter up 10.2% year-over-year with a 6.6% increase in total service revenue.
This year-over-year growth in total service revenue is 30 basis points higher than the 6.3% we reported in the first quarter.
Total quarterly data revenue grew to $5.8 billion up $1.1 billion or 22.2% year-over-year.
Data revenue now represents 39.5% of our total service revenue.
As you know a key driver of data growth has been the increased penetration of smartphones.
We continue to make good progress on that front increasing penetration of our retail postpaid phone base from 32% last quarter to 36% this quarter.
Just one year ago smartphone penetration was 21%.
Within the postpaid category we are also seeing very strong demand for our Internet data devices particularly 4G mobile hotspots or MiFi devices and dongles.
We are the market leader in these devices with a large and growing number of these customer connections now representing more than 7.5% of our retail postpaid base.
In many cases these data-only devices represent an additional connection as a growing number of customers have more than one device.
I would also point out that while the revenues are clearly additive to our top line these devices have a very short payback period as they typically carry a much lower subsidy than the phones within our portfolio.
Let's take a closer look at our connections growth on Slide 8.
We are clearly gaining market share in the retail postpaid market driven by increasing demand for our unmatched portfolio of 3G and 4G LTE handsets and Internet data devices.
During the second quarter we added 2.2 million total connections of which nearly 1.3 million were retail postpaid.
This was our highest quarter of postpaid additions since the fourth quarter of 2008.
Within the 1.3 million postpaid additions about 60% were phones.
In the retail prepaid category we had net additions of 61 000.
Of note were 241 000 prepaid tablets which are contributing to sequential growth and prepaid ARPU.
Outside of the retail category we added about 890 000 wholesale and other connections this quarter.
Only a small percentage of these net adds were the typical reseller phone devices.
A majority of these additions were vehicle tracking telematics and machine-to-machine devices.
While our focus will continue to remain very heavily on the retail postpaid market which represents more than 80% of our total connections we are also broadening our portfolio of machine-to-machine connections.
And while these connections generally have lower monthly revenue profiles they represent incremental revenue at a very high profit margin.
At our Verizon Innovation Center in Waltham companies entrepreneurs and others across the LTE ecosystem are coming together to create the next generation of products and solutions that will deliver the power and possibilities of 4G LTE.
We expect this to be an increasing area of growth for us in the future and we'll continue to expand our M2M offerings.
Total device sales gross adds and upgrades were strong once again this quarter.
We had postpaid gross adds of more than 3.5 million which is an increase of more than 20% year-over-year and about 9% of our retail postpaid customer base upgraded to a new device.
About 90% of the postpaid devices sold this quarter were phones with roughly 60% of these being 3G and 4G smartphones.
Also noteworthy is the fact that half of all Internet data device sales this quarter were 4G LTE.
This strong demand across all product lines is not only increasing our postpaid connections and driving revenue growth but is also strengthening our industry-leading customer loyalty.
Our churn metrics this quarter were excellent with retail postpaid churn of only 0.89% our lowest in 3 years.
Next let's turn to Slide 9 and take a closer look at retail postpaid ARPU.
Throughout last year we saw accelerating retail postpaid ARPU growth starting with 0.6% in the first quarter and steadily ramping to 2.5% in the fourth quarter.
In the first quarter of 2011 our retail postpaid ARPU growth was 2.2%.
This quarter retail postpaid ARPU growth was 1.9%.
To enhance the understanding around the growth trend of this blended metric it is important to note that there are a few different dynamics occurring within the category which while having an impact on the growth rate of the ARPU metric are quite positive and strong indicators of future revenue growth.
The first thing to recognize is that retail postpaid phone ARPU is higher than the blended postpaid metric of $54.12.
As we've illustrated on this slide the rate of growth has increased significantly in the past year to 3.2% this quarter driven of course by the increase in smartphone penetration.
That said within the postpaid category the significant unit growth in Internet data devices while adding total service revenue growth and expansion of the category is having a dilutive effect on the total postpaid ARPU rate of growth at this point in time.
Within the Internet data device category we are seeing strong demand for our mobile hotspot or MiFi devices dongles and tablets while the unit growth is very strong and the key area of focus for us in expanding this category the average ARPU on these devices is less than $54 and is declining on a year-over-year basis.
We are seeing some migration of 3G customers who were paying about $60 per month to a new 4G device at a $50 per month price point.
These pricing plans are intended to expand the category while delivering high profitability and we already see evidence of this in our second quarter margin result.
The strategy within this category of devices is to build share so that we can benefit from the significant growth in usage we anticipate in the future.
We are confident that the innovation will drive the development of bandwidth-intensive video and data applications that will appeal to consumers and provide utility for enterprise customers.
By gaining a strong foothold in this market particularly when you think about the potential for tablets we have a great opportunity to benefit from this increased video and data usage.
Together with our move to tier pricing where the next price point for 10 megabits is $80 per month we believe that as we move into 2012 and 2013 these trends will provide ARPU accretion in this category.
To date the very strong demand for these devices is resulting in strong revenue growth albeit at lower ARPU than with phones.
The other positive element to the sale of 4G LTE devices is the migration of data traffic from our 3G to our 4G network which is highly desirable from a capital efficiency and profitability perspective and will help us drive improved returns into the future.
Stepping back from the postpaid ARPU metric it is important to note that total data revenue continues to be sourced primarily from Web and e-mail services which increased to $3.4 billion this quarter up more than 35% from a year ago.
Messaging which makes up about 1/3 of data revenue is still showing growth albeit at a slower pace at nearly 6% on a year-over-year basis.
With regard to Apple iPhone 4 we activated 2.3 million units this quarter bringing our total to 4.5 million since we started selling the phone in early February.
Sales have been steady and in fact is one of the top performing phones on our 3G network in terms of voice quality with the least number of dropped or lost calls and high overall customer satisfaction.
As far as 4G devices are concerned we have been very pleased with the sales to date.
As you know we have 9 LTE devices in the market today: 3 smartphones 2 mobile hotspots 3 laptop dongles and 1 tablet for pre-order with availability very soon.
During the quarter we sold a total of 1.2 million 4G LTE smartphones and Internet data devices.
In terms of an update on our LTE deployment we are now providing service in 102 markets covering more than 160 million PoPs.
We are well on track with our plan to have coverage of 185 million PoPs or better by the end of 2011.
Let's conclude our Wireless segment review with a discussion about profitability on Slide 10.
In the second quarter we generated $6.7 billion of EBITDA an increase of 2.5% year-over-year and expanded our service EBITDA margin by 170 basis points sequentially to 45.4%.
This margin is a very strong result against the backdrop of an increasing number of device sales.
To me this speaks to our strategy of increasing growth and profitability and clearly demonstrates how we create long-term shareholder value.
Again the combination of top line growth and effective cost controls give me confidence in our ability to sustain our industry-leading profitability and free cash flow generation.
We are encouraged by the strong demand for our products and the positive implications for revenue growth.
Going forward you can expect us to effectively deliver both growth and profitability with a continued strong focus on gaining share in the retail postpaid market.
Within this market we will continue to expand the Internet data device category including tablets and further increase the penetration of smartphones to drive revenue growth and long-term profitability.
Let's move to our Wireline segment next on Slide 11.
We continue to see improving revenue trends in our Wireline business.
Total revenue in the second quarter was $10.2 billion a 0.3% year-over-year decline.
While the inclusion of Terremark added about 100 basis points of growth this still marks solid improvement over the 2.2% decline in the first quarter.
In mass markets our FiOS broadband and video products continue to drive a positive shift in our revenue mix.
FiOS now accounts for 57% of consumer revenue up from 48% a year ago.
FiOS revenue in the quarter grew 20.7% year-over-year and FiOS ARPU is more than $146.
In Global Enterprise revenue growth improved to 3.6% year-over-year driven by strong Strategic Services growth of 17.8%.
Again the inclusion of Terremark added $98 million to second quarter enterprise revenue.
As we've said Strategic Services are becoming a much larger portion of our revenue mix now representing 48% of total enterprise.
Within this category advanced services like Managed Network Solutions Contact Center Solutions IP Communications and our cloud offerings are growing very nicely.
From a profitability perspective segment EBITDA increased $128 million or 5.5% year-over-year resulting in a 140 basis point improvement in our EBITDA margin to 23.8% primarily as a result of our workforce reduction initiatives in 2010.
On a sequential basis this marked the fifth consecutive quarter of EBITDA margin improvement.
Let's take a closer look at our revenue performance starting with mass markets on Slide 12.
Within the mass markets category consumer revenue of $3.4 billion grew 1.3% versus last year.
Consumer ARPU grew to $92.44 an increase of 9.4% from a year ago.
Residential access line loss this quarter was 8.2% compared with 10% a year ago.
The continued penetration of our broadband and video products have increased the scale of our FiOS platform and is now significant enough to more than offset the secular and competitive pressures in this part of the business.
We had another solid quarter of customer growth in FiOS TV adding 184 000 subscribers for a total of 3.8 million TV customers.
Our FiOS TV penetration at the end of the quarter was 30%.
On the broadband side we added 189 000 new FiOS Internet customers in the quarter.
Our FiOS Internet customer base increased to 4.5 million representing 34% penetration of homes open for sale.
By adding in our 4.1 million high-speed Internet or DSL customers we ended the quarter with a total of 8.6 million broadband connections.
This reflects an overall increase of 62 000 broadband connections.
Our strategy of driving penetration in existing markets has been effective and we intend to maintain this momentum as penetration continues to improve in all of our FiOS markets.
Let's move next to our business markets on Slide 13.
Within Global Enterprise Strategic Services continued to drive the year-over-year improvement led by very strong growth in advanced services such as managed network call center IP Communications and our cloud offerings.
As we experienced last quarter the absolute dollar growth in Strategic Services outpaced the dollar decline in core Enterprise Services.
In Global Wholesale revenues declined 7.4% year-over-year.
As we've discussed our route rationalization strategy resulted in a substantial decline in International Voice revenue of about $111 million this quarter on a year-over-year basis.
Since these price changes were initiated in mid-2010 we have 1 or 2 more quarters to work through before the comparative impact of these actions moderates.
Absent these effects second quarter Global Wholesale revenues declined 2.9% year-over-year.
This decline is primarily in Domestic Voice where we continue to experience secular pressures and lower usage volumes.
I will wrap up here with a summary slide to highlight our second half of 2011 areas of focus.
We had a strong first half of the year demonstrating solid execution of our strategy while increasing profitability.
In the second half of the year you can expect us to continue to drive strong top line growth in our key strategic areas.
We have great momentum in Wireless and we expect to build on that strength.
We're seeing continued demand for our existing 3G and 4G LTE handsets and Internet data devices with more smartphones tablets and data devices in the pipeline.
In FiOS we will continue to drive higher penetration in our existing markets and capture pent-up demand in new markets.
In the enterprise space we continue to enhance our position as a leading global provider in the information technology solution space.
With the integration of Terremark well underway we have improved our ability to combine solutions around the network data center security and cloud infrastructure providing us with a significant opportunity in this high-growth part of the market.
While achieving higher top line growth is great we must ensure that this is profitable and sustainable.
Our focus is on driving growth in products and services that are not only increasing our market share but also expanding margins and improving profitability.
I can assure you that the business will remain very focused on our cost structure and achieving meaningful cost reductions.
The strategic actions and execution of our plans have strengthened our Wireless and Wireline businesses.
Our objective is to continue to drive increases in free cash flow through improved operating performance disciplined capital spending and the efficient use of working capital.
We intend to maintain a strong balance sheet and a very competitive dividend as this is critical component of shareholder value creation.
So I will end there and it gives me great pleasure to now turn the call over to our newly-elected President and Chief Executive Officer Lowell McAdam.
Thank you Fran and good morning everyone on the call.
Today is obviously an important day for Verizon as we transition the CEO role from Ivan to me.
This has been a very smooth transition by any measure and we have Ivan to thank for that.
He has had a very clear plan from the beginning and that is to keep the focus on customers and our investors.
I want to be sure that I say to investors on my first day on the job that I understand the obligations that come with this position and that is to deliver bottom line results.
Ivan has built a tremendous company over his 18 years of leadership.
He has moved this business from a regional wireline voice business to the leading national wireless company and to a Global Enterprise technology company.
I believe we can accelerate that transformation to a global solutions and networking company.
I believe that the pieces are already in place to do that and that we are showing good momentum in our results to further fuel that transformation.
Morning Fran has done his usual highly professional job explaining the results.
A few things stand out for me.
First Wireless continues to show strong growth and industry-leading profitability.
We have been through many transitions of devices and technology.
The consistency of results in the face of a highly competitive and dynamic market show the underlying strength of our team and our operations.
Second the FiOS strategy has proven itself by taking share and gaining revenues.
Our enterprise strategy fueled by the MCI the Cybertrust and now the Terremark acquisition is producing a highly-successful portfolio of services that are being rapidly adopted by our customers.
And finally I see a cost-control mindset that is driving overall profitability.
While my optimism is certainly based on performance I also see tremendous potential ahead.
First I'm pleased with the organization structure and the management team that we've put in place last October.
They're rolling up their sleeves and diving into many opportunities to reengineer our processes and policies.
This will streamline our operations to deliver better service to our customers and better cost performance.
Second we have leading-edge technology platforms in FiOS LTE our IP backbone and now the cloud.
These investments will pay dividends now and in the future.
As we see far more demand for video data and enterprise applications we are better positioned than any other company to meet evolving customer needs.
Third we've begun to effectively partner to drive innovation for our customers.
Some of the most innovative companies in ours and adjacent industries are working in our existing innovation center in Waltham Massachusetts and the soon-to-be opened sister center in San Francisco.
We see an exciting roadmap of new consumer and business products on the horizon.
Finally I am pleased with the evolution of our partnership with Vodafone.
We are clearly moving from a purely financial partnership to an operating partnership.
We are now facing our largest multinational customers as one team.
We've aligned our product and our technology roadmaps and we are beginning to purchase infrastructure together.
All of these actions will begin to enhance our revenue and our cost profiles.
As my last comment I'd say we have just finished taking the top 300 leaders of Verizon through a class we call leading for shareholder value.
Fran and I teach significant sections of the class which focuses on how we can drive the business to higher returns.
I am very pleased by the reaction of the senior team and their commitment to our success.
We use the term there's always a higher gear meaning no matter where you are in the business there are opportunities to improve.
That's what makes being part of Verizon so exciting and that's what positions us so well for the future.
With that I'll turn the call back over to John.
Thank you.
Thanks Lowell.
Brad that concludes our opening segment of the call.
Let's open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from John Hodulik of UBS.
I guess the question is for Fran.
I'm trying to maybe get a sense for the trends in Wireless ARPU and basically what happened between the 2.8% growth in margin and what we saw in the first quarter.
It sounds like -- for the second quarter it sounds like it's a mix -- it's a combination of increased mix of connected devices and some ARPU pressure within each category.
And specifically you mentioned that the migration from 3G to 4G putting pressure on ARPU because those are lower-priced devices.
If you could give us a sense for maybe the magnitude of which one was the larger of the drivers.
And two maybe how far through that migration of customers from 3G to 4G ROE how much more pressure do you expect from that specific issue? And maybe give us a sense for what you expect for ARPU trends going forward in the postpaid side.
John so this is -- I'm glad the question came because this is one that's important.
So if you look at -- we've actually disclosed the new metric that we now call phone ARPU which consists of our smartphones and our feature phones.
And again this quarter we saw a very good uptick from feature phone to smartphone about 53% with the Apple phone transforming from the feature phone into the smartphone.
So we're seeing that 3.2% continuing into the future.
I think the important thing here is though is on the Internet devices and it's important to know because if you go back to October of last year when the market changed pricing on all of Internet devices we actually launched Internet pricing at $35 per 3 gig; $50 for 5 and $80 for 10.
And as we saw the market and we expanded the market in this category with also the innovation of the 4G LTE network and now all the devices that we have on that.
In May we actually pulled the $35 price point from the marketplace.
So that was part of the contribution of why we saw an acceleration of the dilution in the Internet ARPU.
We have now since pulled that so now the entry point is $50 stepping up to $80.
So we've made that change and I think that in itself will start to see improvement in the third quarter.
But needless to say the amount of devices and the volume within the 4G network we're very pleased with with moving 1.2 million devices this quarter.
And as you said John we are seeing folks who are coming off of their contracts on 3G moving over to the 4G and stepping down from their legacy pricing of the $60 and $70 price point down to the $50 price point.
But I also want to make sure that it's important to realize that these devices are a much lower subsidy and the profitability on these devices are extremely high.
So it's the right thing to do.
We're expanding the category.
We're seeing the expansion with our tablets with our 4G network with tablets where we now have our first 4G tablet coming to marketplace.
It can be pre-ordered and we think that that will also make a dynamic change here.
The other thing that I want to talk about ARPU and something that I've mentioned before is because of the dynamics of the industry and the way it's changing we now have a number of tablets being sold as prepaid.
So what you saw this quarter is -- and the sequential accretion in the prepaid ARPU because we're placing more and more tablets onto a prepaid pricing system.
The other thing that's interesting to note is more than 50% of these prepaid customers are buying at $35 and higher price points even on the prepaid plan.
So this strategy is working.
I think we'll continue to expand this but I do think that we'll see continued pressure in the Internet device category.
So Fran do you expect total service revenue growth to continue to accelerate from here? I believe we're going to be seeing continued acceleration of service growth.
John this is Lowell.
Just if I look back over my 20-some years on the Wireless side every time we brought in new devices we brought in new use cases we saw nice expansion of the market.
And I think that's just what you see going on here today.
In some ways it's similar to when we all went to family share plans.
So there was a big concern over what ARPU was going to do.
But we expanded the market nicely great profitability and I think that's exactly what's going on here now.
And so we feel very good about the position.
Your next question will come from Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley.
You talked about the Vodafone partnership and opportunities.
Can you talk about the dividend potential where the sort of negotiations stand and what sort of timing and type of payment we should be expecting there? Sure.
So I'll let Fran talk specifically about the dividend here.
But I think that Vittorio's and my goal over the last 18 months have really been to try to turn the temperature down a little bit and to improve the bottom line of the relationship.
So we've really focused -- because we knew LTE was on the horizon here we started out by focusing on aligning the technology roadmaps and that will go all the way through purchasing network equipment together as they're a little bit behind us because they don't have the spectrum for LTE but they're beginning that ramp now.
We also have heard very clearly from the large enterprise customers that combining the assets of Verizon business meaning the global IP backbone and their data center infrastructure and that's -- an exclamation point went on that with the Terremark purchase that we could provide a global fix and mobile solution.
So we've now -- we have teams that -- its one team made up of Verizon and Vodafone employees that face our top 50 accounts and we're going to be expanding that very quickly.
And there's a number of other smaller but those are the main ones.
Now regarding the dividend we've been very clear that there will be a dividend.
And why don't I let Fran just talk a little bit about the mechanics.
I think Simon at this point I've made my comments on the dividend.
I don't think there's really anything else to comment on on the dividend.
Your next question will come from Tim Horan of Oppenheimer.
Fran I might've missed it but could you comment on what you're seeing in terms of LTE speeds and maybe monthly over monthly data usage? And then on the margin front you had a great sequential growth there about 130 basis points on a consolidated basis.
Could you talk about maybe the trends over the next few quarters and where you think you can be kind of longer term at this point? You've had almost a decade of restructuring in the business and a lot obviously upgrades to the infrastructure and you're still substantially below where the margins used to be historically.
Yes Tim on the LTE speeds we're seeing consistent from what we had disclosed before.
We don't get into disclosure of any 4G LTE device usage at this point.
Again I think it's too early to really get a good average on what those speeds will be amongst all the different devices that we have there.
As far as on the consolidated margin basis I think I'll be consistent to say that our business strategy and what we disclosed back in January I think it proves that we have proven that the strategy is working.
We're expanding the market.
We're growing our top line and I think that the margin will follow here based on what Lowell just said where our main points of concentration are which is the top line growth in all of our different business segments and taking cost out of the business.
Your next question will come from the Jason Armstrong of Goldman Sachs.
Maybe a couple of questions.
First on capital spending.
You obviously talked about flat this year.
I'm just wondering from here if there are opportunities.
Obviously FiOS spending starts to wind down.
Would you expect to sort of reinvest the declines in FiOS spending into either Wireless or Enterprise? Or do we continue to have sort of an outlook of flat to maybe even down capital spending as we look beyond the year? And then second just on enterprise maybe some of the SME trends.
You have choppy macro data points from here.
Did they give you any pause about the momentum you're seeing in that business as you look at the balance of the year? Okay I'll answer the first one Jason.
I'll let Lowell take the enterprise one.
On the capital spending side I think we'll just stick with 2011 at this point.
And as you know we spent $8.5 billion worth in the units.
We're a total of $8.9 billion for the first half.
And as I said back in January we would be a little different this year because historically we've always kind of accelerated our capital expend through the year and I was very clear at the beginning that said we would have an acceleration in the first half and then a decline because we felt that the capacity of EVDO was built out and we still are very comfortable with that projection.
So you should see that decline coming in the second half of this year.
And I think at this point we know that we still have LFA requirements on the FiOS build of about 1 million homes for the next 2 years.
So I don't see any major change on premise past perspective at least for the next 2 years out.
And we said that we would commit on passing 18 million homes and Lowell and I've said that we would stop there.
And then based on penetration rates into the future then we will make those decisions.
So at this point we'll stick with the flat for 2011 and we'll come back later and talk about the outer years.
On the enterprise question Jason and macro trends I would love to be able to tell you that we see significant improvement in the overall economic outlook but we can't really say that at this point.
What we see is a shift.
And whereas 2 years ago you were seeing a lot of enterprise expansion now we're actually able to capitalize on the cost reduction plans of these enterprises.
So I think that's why cloud is picking up significantly for us as well as some of our other Strategic Services because the IT department is looking for an opportunity to take advantage of our scale and our applications and so they're shifting -- we're seeing some nice shifts of business.
But as far as overall do we see the economy coming out of this flat plateau? We say no.
I can't say that we see that.
Our next question will come from Michael Rollins of Citi Investment Research.
Just coming back to the Wireline side can you help frame the margin opportunity for Wireline both over the next couple quarters and next few years especially in front of the labor negotiations.
And maybe within that context you can give us an update there.
Okay why don't I just make a comment.
This is Lowell on the labor side Mike and then Fran can add additional thoughts.
I think the tone is good with the union so far.
We have lots of dialogue.
I think they've been very professional.
We understand and I think -- I won't speak for them but it's clear that when you see the core Access Line decline and you see the pressures on the Wireline business that some things do need to change.
And yes we've asked for some changes in our work rules and we've asked for them to consider coming on to the general employee and management medical plans.
Those are probably the big issues.
I think we're just coming into the time where we enter into serious negotiations as we get close to the August 6 date.
And I'm optimistic that we'll be able to work something through that'll be fair and equitable to both sides.
Yes Mike on the margin side I think I've been pretty consistent and we've delivered consecutive margin improvement for the last 5 quarters.
And I'll commit again that our business strategy is to continue to improve the Wireline margin through top line growth as well as cost containments.
And as Lowell always tells me there's plenty of pots of gold out there to go after in the Wireline business.
So we will continue to take cost out and really concentrate on those strategic revenue growth opportunities within the Wireline business consisting of FiOS the enterprise side and especially with the acquisition of Terremark.
So I think our plan is there we just have to execute on our strategy.
And can you disclose the ending net debt balance for Verizon Wireless? For this quarter it's about $6 billion.
Our next question will come from David Barden of Bank of America.
Two questions if I could real quick.
Number one even stripping out Terremark from the Global Enterprise it was a nice healthy tickup in 2Q versus 1Q but we didn't really see that in the small medium business segment.
Could you talk about the different dynamics that are driving those kind of businesses in different directions right now? And the second if I could just quickly on kind of the iPhone and LTE sales.
Could you talk about what percentage was new to the base and what percentage was upgrades? Sure Dave.
So with that on the small business side and I'm assuming that you're -- let me just get a clarification here.
You're looking at the really the SOHO business within the Wireline segment which was actually down by 5.2% this quarter.
And I think what's happening here is that we're seeing additional line loss in that segment.
Now the actual Internet and broadband connection in that segment was actually positive for us this quarter but we did see an acceleration of line loss.
And I think what I would contribute it to is if you look at the national startup of small businesses we are down on a national basis over 50% from where we were last year on startups.
So I think it's an inflection of we don't have as much coming in the door to offset that line loss.
And the line loss is not increasing but it's consistent.
So I think we saw a little bit of a different dynamic in that 0 to 20 SOHO business which created that acceleration there.
But it's nothing that I'm overly concerned about.
It's not a big portion of our portfolio.
But it is definitely something that Lowell I and the team are very focused on that we need to turn here in the future.
And then on the iPhone LTE mix the iPhone upgrade to new is pretty consistent with the first quarter 22% to 23% new and the rest were upgrades.
Your next question will come from Phil Cusick from JPMorgan.
Wondering if we could dig in a little bit on the handsets.
First if you could talk about the smartphone mix of handsets overall.
At the beginning of the year we talked about that going up to 50% and it doesn't look like it's going to quite make it.
Do you see anything in the second half to sort of ramp up that upgrade rate to get smartphones higher? And then second if you could help us on the LTE of 1.2 million can you give us any kind of breakout between phones and data devices? Let me take the first part of that one.
I think Phil the handset and smartphone mix we like the gross add mix that we see coming in here.
We're in a roughly 60% kind of range.
We are probably what I would view as maybe a quarter behind what we had talked about in January primarily because we expected an iPhone 5 refresh sometime this summer.
We don't know when the next one's going to come out.
You'll have to ask Apple that but we expect that probably sometime in the fall.
And I think you'll see a significant jump there when we get to that point.
On the LTE side I can't tell you how pleased I am at how the device manufacturers have stepped up with all kinds of devices and we're beginning to see even in the machine-to-machine space LTE modules because the latency is so much better than we have in a 3G environment.
Our fourth quarter lineup is going to be very robust and you've seen -- you've gotten a little bit of a peek at that through devices like the Samsung Charge.
The screen density is significantly better than what we've seen in the past.
So I think we're going to have probably in my entire career the best fourth quarter lineup of devices I've seen which will shift that mix that you talked about.
And then Phil on the -- just the breakout of LTE.
What I will say -- because I'm not going to break out individual devices here but what I will say is if you take our 4G devices and our Apple device it accounted for 69% of our net adds for the quarter.
So that is definitely executed in the strategy that we laid out for our growth this year.
Our next question will come from Michael McCormack of Nomura.
Just maybe digging a little deeper on the Wireline enterprise trends.
Can you give us some sense for what you're seeing at the customer level as far as demand goes and then also in the competitive environment the pricing behavior among the bigger carriers? And then on the wholesale side do you guys anticipate that you can get that revenue stream to something that's more flattish over time given the changes you've made? And then I guess lastly on the cash flow side Fran what should we be thinking about -- it's probably a little early to be discussing this but the employee retirement benefits on a going-forward basis and then deferred taxes given bonus depreciation rolling off? Okay Mike so on the enterprise side and the trends I think what we're seeing is we're continuing to see improvement in our trends from an overall business perspective.
And obviously with the Terremark acquisition we've really put a sounding board out there for ourselves in the cloud space and you saw that we split out that revenue of Terremark which grew almost 30% year-over-year.
So I think that strategy is there.
What we're seeing quite honestly is a lot of enterprise customers are coming to us and asking us what solutions do we have in order to cut their costs.
And obviously a strategy around cloud is really the pivotal point of how we can cut enterprise cost.
Now the major concern they obviously have is around the security of that cloud and we think that being #1 in security and the portfolio that we have from our Cybertrust acquisition and what we just acquired from Terremark we really do believe we're second to none in the marketplace as far as security expertise.
So I think that is starting to build momentum here on the overall enterprise place and also on a global basis for us.
On the wholesale side as I said this International Voice you saw this quarter we declined down to 7.4% from where we were about 11% in the last 2 quarters.
I think we'll continue to make progress there as we get back to an apples-to-apples comparison.
And as I said before I'm kind of bullish to had said if these trends continue I do still think that in the fourth quarter we could be back on a positive growth for the entire Wireline segment for us.
And then from a cash flow perspective and income tax and all that that was all built into our forecast for free cash flow.
As I said in the first quarter we were low because of some timing-related issues.
We came back to the range I gave and I'm confident that with the decrease in our capital spend we will deliver higher cash flow in the second half of the year.
Our next question will come from Jonathan Chaplin of Crédit Suisse.
Two quick questions if I may.
So as you strengthen your operating relationship with Vodafone can you get all the benefits that there are to extract from that relationship just with this kind of a partnership? Or would there be merits to potentially think about combining these companies at some point in the future? And secondly just going back to the smartphone question for a second.
It looks like your share of the smartphone market is coming in a little weaker than we expected.
I'm wondering how much you think AT&amp;T offering a $50 iPhone sort of dampened your capture of the smartphone market.
And it sounds like you think with the launch of an iPhone 5 and a strong lineup of devices in the fourth quarter you should really see your smartphone share accelerate.
I just want to see if -- make sure that that's what you expect.
Okay so there's a lot in there too Jonathan.
So I don't have a lot more to say on the smartphone versus what I said earlier.
I do think it's about a quarter behind what we had talked about in January.
So given that the delay of the iPhone 5 is more than a quarter I think we've actually performed quite well.
AT&amp;T is a strong competitor and they've done a lot of things to be a strong competitor.
But I like porting ratios.
I like our growth rate versus theirs so I think what you're see is a result of a very dynamic market.
Regarding Vodafone look I don't see a combination here.
I think that we can do what we need to do.
There's -- in our markets they can do what they need to do.
In their markets we can leverage each other's scale but I would not send any kind of messages here that something like that's immediately on the horizon.
I think we need to show that we can do a good operating partnership here.
And Vittorio and I see a ton of opportunities in that particular area and we'll cross whatever bridges are ahead of us when we get to them.
Our last question will come from James Ratcliffe of Barclays Capital.
Two quick if I could one on Wireless.
Are you expecting to see any churn impact from launching a situated pricing as customers become loathe to give that up by moving to another carrier? And secondly can you talk through a little bit about what margin impact you're seeing from the growth of FiOS both leveraging the existing infrastructure regarding revenue and offsetting the higher operating costs associated with a larger portion of revenue coming from video? James let me take the question on tiered pricing and then Fran can come back and talk about the margins.
In my view is that tiered pricing is like gravity.
The industry has to get there because there is not unlimited spectrum.
And when you look at the utility of the devices that we offer and the video demand that is going to be hitting the devices it's inevitable.
Now each carrier will be in a slightly different position because of their spectrum holdings and their capacity on their networks.
So I think over time there may be some that hold out longer with unlimited and I wouldn't be surprised if unlimited comes back in and out from a promotional perspective for carriers to balance growth.
But in my view it is -- as I said like it's inevitable.
So do I expect to see some churn impacts? Sure.
There will be some users that are very high users that will want to move between carriers to find whatever opportunities they can to continue that.
But our strength has always been the best network and the best customer service and at 2 gigs well over 95% of our customers are underneath that demand.
So I don't think there will be tremendous disruption.
Okay and then James on the FiOS margin what I will say is that we will continue to make improvements operationally in the FiOS whether it be on the capital cost of passing a home and a capital cost of connecting the home.
And then operationally we are still performing very very well compared to core especially around repair and maintenance because the FiOS network operates pretty efficiently.
So I think overall what I will disclose is that FiOS margins continue to improve.
I think it's based on 2 things.
One is we are very concentrated on the top line growth of our revenue per customer.
We have launched Flex View.
We've re-bundled where you can build your own bundle now and we're seeing some nice uptick in people varying whether they want higher speed or less bundling in TV packages and now also with our forthcoming release of our connected home product around security and energy monitoring and electricity and all.
So I think it's twofold.
It's the operational cost efficiency and building the top line growth of FiOS.
Thanks to all of you for joining us this morning.
Brad that concludes our call.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon conference services.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Verizon Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr.
John Doherty Senior Vice President Investor Relations for Verizon.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
I'm John Doherty.
With me this morning is Fran Shammo.
Before we get started let me remind you that our earnings release financial and operating information the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website.
This call is being webcast.
If you would like to listen to a replay you can do so from our website.
I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement.
Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties.
Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC which are also available on our website.
This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also on our website.
For the third quarter of 2011 we reported earnings of $0.49 per share on a GAAP basis.
These results include $201 million or $0.07 per share for non-operational charge for pension-related items primarily comprised of actuarial remeasurement losses related to employees who received lump sum distributions in connection with previously announced separation plans.
On an adjusted basis EPS was $0.56 bringing our year-to-date total to $1.63.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Fran.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
Before we get into the details let me start with some brief comments.
We had another quarter of solid execution and earnings performance.
Adjusted earnings were higher than the same quarter last year and would have been higher sequentially were it not for some extraordinary and hopefully nonrecurring challenges this quarter.
In spite of this additional pressure from the storms and the strike which had about a $0.05 impact on EPS in the quarter we remain on track to achieve our full year earnings guidance of 5% to 8% growth in adjusted earnings per share off a base of $2.08 in 2010.
In terms of cash generation we had a strong quarter with disciplined capital spending resulting in a solid increase in free cash flow.
I'd also highlight that our Board of Directors approved a 2.6% dividend increase in September which on an annual basis is an increase from $1.95 to $2 per share.
This marked the fifth consecutive year of dividend increases a testament to our board's confidence in the sustainability of our cash flows.
We are very pleased with our progress in the key strategic areas which are the platforms for sustainable growth.
In Wireless we continue to perform extremely well and we are further enhancing our leadership in 4G LTE.
In addition to making great progress and extending our network capabilities to more markets we are seeing increasing customer demand for smartphones tablets and Internet devices that take advantage of the superior speeds of our LTE network.
In FiOS we continued to steadily increase penetration on all our markets.
By further penetrating existing markets we will enhance our capital and operating efficiency and improve overall investment returns.
In the Enterprise space we are getting some traction in spite of the macroeconomic challenges.
We are having productive dialogue with many large customers and secured new agreements for Strategic Services during the quarter with RWE of Germany Smile Brands and the University of North Carolina to name a few.
Our competitive position in the cloud space has been bolstered by the acquisition of Terremark earlier this year and more recently with the addition of CloudSwitch a well-known Software-as-a-Service provider.
A number of multinational companies including ORINK adopted our cloud services during the quarter.
Some segment-specific highlights are on Slide 4.
In Wireless we had another excellent quarter with strong growth in retail customers revenue and ARPU accretion.
Our performance with respect to margin churn and free cash flow was extremely strong in the third quarter.
In fact our Wireless service EBITDA margin of 47.8% is the highest we have ever reported since the formation of Verizon Wireless in the year 2000.
In Wireline an unprecedented series of storms caused power outages and severe flooding in nearly every part of our landline footprint causing a significant increase in repair and maintenance costs.
In addition the 2-week strike in August delayed new FiOS installations and together with the storms created a sharp increase in our FiOS sales order backlog.
The storms also created delays in some order provisioning with Enterprise customers.
The impact of these factors caused a 250 basis point decline in the Wireline EBITDA margin this quarter.
In spite of these challenges we did increase penetration in both FiOS Internet and TV.
In addition we continued to improve our overall Wireline revenue mix with FiOS representing nearly 60% of consumer revenue and Strategic Services nearly 50% of Enterprise revenue.
All things considered we had a solid performance under some tough circumstances.
Let's now move to our more detailed review of the quarter starting with Slide 5.
Our top line growth trends continue to be very positive with solid growth in all strategic areas: Wireless FiOS and Enterprise Strategic Services.
Consolidated revenue in the third quarter increased to $27.9 billion or 5.4% year-over-year.
Through 9 months adjusted revenue growth was 5.6%.
Consolidated EBITDA for the third quarter totaled $9.2 billion up 4.1% year-over-year.
Obviously this growth was adversely affected by Wireline this quarter.
Earnings for the quarter were $0.49 per share with $0.07 of non-operational charges related to pensions and benefits.
So our $0.56 adjusted result compares favorably with our first 2 quarters of this year especially when you consider that it includes about $0.05 of storm and strike impact.
Through 9 months our $1.63 per share represents a 5.8% increase in adjusted EPS on a comparable basis with last year.
Again our year-to-date performance confirms the strength of the business and the path that we are on to create long-term shareholder value.
Let's turn next to cash flow and capital spending on Slide 6.
Our free cash flow this quarter increased by $1.9 billion or 59% sequentially driven by a double-digit increase in cash from operations and reduced levels of capital spending.
So far we've invested $12.5 billion in capital through 9 months and we are on track to meet our full year guidance of $16.5 billion which is equal to the amount we spent last year.
Our CapEx-to-revenue ratio in the third quarter was 13% a 350 basis point improvement sequentially and 260 basis points better year-over-year.
In Wireless capital spending in the third quarter totaled $1.8 billion which was significantly less than the $2.7 billion spend in each of the first 2 quarters of this year.
As we said second half spending will be lower than the first half particularly with regard to 3G capacity.
Our 4G LTE deployment is going very well and we are now providing service in 165 markets covering more than 186 million PoPs.
With additional markets planned in November and December we are actually ahead of schedule and have already exceeded our year-end target of 185 million PoPs.
In Wireline capital expenditures in the third quarter totaled $1.6 billion.
Year-to-date Wireline capital spending of $4.8 billion was 6.5% lower than last year.
We've generated $9 billion in free cash flow for the first 9 months.
And our outlook for the balance of the year remains very strong especially in light of the lower capital requirements.
The sustainability of this cash flow underpins our commitment to returning cash to shareholders.
You will recall that in late July the Verizon Wireless Board of Representatives declared a distribution of $10 billion to its owners payable on January 31 2012.
In addition as I highlighted earlier our board recently approved a dividend increase for the fifth consecutive year.
Our financial position is strong from a balance sheet perspective.
Net debt at the end of September was $44.6 billion and our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio is about 1.3x.
Let's now move into our review of the segments starting with Wireless on Slide 7.
Our Wireless business had another impressive quarter with solid growth in postpaid connections the highest retail service revenue growth we've seen since the second quarter of 2009 and faster growth in retail postpaid ARPU.
In addition our industry-leading EBITDA service margin improved to a record high 47.8%.
Total revenue grew to $17.7 billion in the quarter up 9.1% year-over-year.
Retail service revenue which includes both postpaid and prepaid grew 6.9% year-over-year 140 basis points higher than the 5.5% growth we reported in the second quarter.
Postpaid service revenue which represents 98% of retail service grew 7.2% year-over-year.
Total service revenue grew 6.1% year-over-year.
This rate of growth was impacted by a $61 million year-over-year decline in other service which is primarily roaming and wholesale revenue.
Total data revenue grew to $6.1 billion in the quarter up 20.5% year-over-year.
Data now represents 40.6% of our total service revenue.
Growth continued to be driven by web and e-mail services which increased to $3.7 billion this quarter up more than 36% from a year ago.
Messaging which makes up just under 1/3 of data revenue grew at just over 5% on a year-over-year basis.
Let's take a closer look at connections growth on Slide 8.
We continue to gain share in the retail postpaid market and lead in 4G LTE.
Retail customer growth continues to be driven by steady demand for our unmatched portfolio of 3G and 4G LTE handsets and Internet data devices and of course on the reliability of our premier network.
During the third quarter we added over 1.3 million total connections: 882 000 were retail postpaid net adds 86 000 were retail prepaid and roughly 367 000 were wholesale and other connections.
Importantly 52% of the retail postpaid net adds in the quarter were 4G LTE smartphones and Internet devices up from 30% in the second quarter.
Our $50 monthly unlimited prepaid phone offer was only available nationwide since September 15 which was not long enough to affect the quarter.
We are optimistic that this will help our retail prepaid performance in the fourth quarter.
Total devices both gross adds and upgrades while relatively strong were down about 5% sequentially this quarter due primarily to customer anticipation of the next version of the Apple iPhone.
Retail postpaid gross adds totaled $3.3 million up about 3% year-over-year but lower sequentially.
The percentage of customers upgrading was also lower than the prior 2 quarters.
The continued demand for our Wireless products is not only driving growth in connections and revenue but also strengthening our industry-leading customer loyalty.
Our churn metrics this quarter were once again excellent with retail postpaid churn of only 0.94% a 13 basis point improvement over the same quarter last year.
Next let's turn to Slide 9 and take a closer look at smartphones and retail postpaid ARPU.
We continue to make progress in terms of smartphone sales increasing the smartphone penetration of our retail postpaid phone base to 39% from 36% last quarter.
A year ago that penetration was 24%.
We sold 5.6 million smartphones in the quarter representing 60% of all postpaid phone sales compared with 43% a year ago.
More than half of the total smartphones sold this quarter were Android phones either 3G or 4G.
Another 35% or 2 million were iPhones bringing our year-to-date total to 6.5 million.
We anticipate that the strong demand we're seeing for the new iPhone 4S will bring even more new customers to the nation's most reliable wireless network.
We sold a total of 1.4 million 4G LTE devices in the quarter.
Just over 1/2 of these were smartphones and the rest were Internet data devices.
Shifting now to ARPU retail postpaid ARPU was $54.89 up 2.4% year-over-year which is a 50 basis point improvement in growth from last quarter.
Keep in mind that that is a blended metric.
Retail postpaid phone ARPU is about $56 and grew 3.7% year-over-year showing good accretion from 3.2% growth last quarter.
Internet data devices have an ARPU of about $49.
While the growth of these devices is deluding our postpaid ARPU growth at this time expanding this category remains a key strategic focus for us.
We continue to see strong demand for our 4G LTE mobile hotspot devices and PC cards as well as tablets.
This category of devices represents nearly 8% of all our retail postpaid subscriber base.
I would also note that these data-only devices typically carry a much lower subsidy than phones so they have a very short payback period and contribute to profitability fairly quickly.
In addition the migration of data traffic from our 3G to our 4G network will enhance our capital and operating efficiency and will help us drive improved returns going forward.
Let's conclude our Wireless segment review with a discussion about profitability on Slide 10.
In the third quarter we generated $7.2 billion of EBITDA an increase of 7.5% year-over-year and expanded our service EBITDA margin by 240 basis points sequentially to 47.8%.
This is an extraordinarily strong result.
Our margin improvement goes beyond the fact that device sales were lower this quarter.
Higher retail service revenue and our intense focus on cost efficiency are clearly helping to mitigate the cost of higher equipment subsidies.
In addition we continue to lead the industry in customer loyalty which we believe is a testament to the quality and reliability of our network and to the overall customer experience.
We continue to execute very well on our strategy of increasing growth and profitability.
Let's move to our Wireline segment next on Slide 11.
As I said earlier the third quarter posed challenges to the Wireline business and as a result some of our key financial performance metrics were adversely affected.
Setting aside these impacts total Wireline revenue in the quarter remained steady.
Consumer revenue grew 1.1% year-over-year with FiOS revenue up 18.5%.
In Global Enterprise revenue growth was 2.1% year-over-year driven by Strategic Services growth of 15.6%.
Strategic Services are becoming a much larger portion of our revenue mix now representing nearly 50% of total Enterprise.
From a profitability perspective segment EBITDA in the quarter decreased $160 million or 6.9% year-over-year.
We've estimated that the storms and the strike cost us $250 million in the quarter causing the Wireline EBITDA margin to decline sequentially to 21.4%.
Let's take a closer look at our revenue performance starting with mass markets on Slide 12.
Consumer revenues were $3.4 billion up 1.1% versus last year.
Consumer ARPU continued to increase and is now over $94.
Residential access line loss this quarter was 8% compared with 9.6% a year ago.
FiOS now represents nearly 60% of consumer revenue.
The increasing scale of the FiOS platform is significant enough to more than offset the secular and competitive pressures in the consumer landline business.
The storms and the strike caused customer growth in FiOS to be lower than prior quarters.
In FiOS TV we added 131 000 subscribers in the quarter bringing our total to 4 million and increasing our penetration to 31%.
On the broadband side we added 138 000 new FiOS Internet subscribers in the quarter increasing our FiOS Internet customer base to 4.6 million representing 35% penetration of homes open for sale.
By adding in our 4 million high-speed Internet or DSL customers we ended the quarter with a total of 8.6 million broadband connections adding a net positive 20 000 broadband connections this quarter.
While we always have a healthy FiOS pipeline our installation backlog spiked to roughly 1.8x at its peak in early September.
We ended the quarter at about 1.2x our typical pipeline and have been actively working through these orders in October.
In the fourth quarter we expect to add more than 200 000 FiOS Internet and TV subscribers.
Let's move next to our business markets on Slide 13.
In Global Enterprise increases in Strategic Services continued to drive year-over-year revenue improvement led by a very strong growth in advanced services such as Managed Network Call Center IP Communications and our cloud offerings.
The inclusion of Terremark added about $100 million to revenue this quarter.
As a result of our improving sales mix the absolute dollar growth in Strategic Services once again outpaced the decline in core Enterprise Service.
International revenue which makes up approximately 15% of Global Enterprise grew 9.8% year-over-year.
In Global Wholesale while revenues declined 9% year-over-year the rate of decline is moderating on a sequential basis.
As we've discussed our route rationalization strategy resulted in a substantial decline in International Voice revenue which has impacted year-over-year comparisons.
We made these price changes in 2010 and have one more quarter to work through before the comparative impact of these actions moderates.
In the third quarter this accounted for a revenue decline of about $90 million year-over-year.
Absent these effects second quarter Global Wholesale revenues declined 5.8% year-over-year.
This decline is primarily in Domestic Voice where we continue to experience secular pressures and lower usage volumes.
I will wrap up now on Slide 14.
Back in January when we talked about our 2011 priorities I said this year would be all about execution.
Now that we are 3 quarters through the year our results demonstrate solid execution on our strategy.
We are on track to meet our guidance for revenue and earnings growth as well as capital spending in spite of the challenges that impacted us in the third quarter.
We have great momentum in Wireless and we expect to build on that strength.
We are geared up for an exciting fourth quarter with a host of new smartphones tablets and data devices coming to the market.
Earlier this week we announced the DROID RAZR by Motorola the world's thinnest 4G LTE smartphone.
In FiOS we expect to get back on track quickly driving higher penetration in existing markets and effectively capturing pent-up demand in new markets.
In the Enterprise space we are also gaining momentum as a leading global provider in the information technology solutions space.
The integration of Terremark and the recent acquisition of CloudSwitch have significantly improved our competitive position.
We now have a unique set of capabilities to combine solutions around the network data center security and cloud infrastructure that allowed Terremark to achieve a record new sales bookings in the third quarter.
More and more CIOs are recognizing the value of our Enterprise solutions which is helping us to effectively manage through some pockets of economic pressure in the small and midsized business markets.
Our financial objective is to continue to increase free cash flow through improved operating performance disciplined capital spending and the efficient use of working capital.
Our balance sheet is strong and we have very competitive dividend.
With that I will turn it back to John so we can get to your questions.
Thanks Fran.
Brad let's open it up for questions please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jason Armstrong of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Fran a couple of questions.
First on Wireless if we look at retail service growth I think as you mentioned up 6.9% that's a big step up sequentially.
But when we look at the total service growth line up 6.1% I think that's been weighed down a bit as you mentioned by roaming.
Can you just help us think through that and what some of that pressure -- or when some of that pressure might abate? And then second question just on Wireline margins sort of excluding the storm and the strike costs were up 10 basis points sequentially.
That's the fourth straight quarter we've seen sequential improvement.
As we look forward can margins expand further from here? What's the outlook? Jason so first let's talk about the Wireless segment on the service revenue.
So overall 6.1% that was down from 6.6% in the second quarter.
Before I get to that explanation just a couple of things to highlight here.
As you mentioned the retail service revenue from 5.6% to 6.9% and then retail postpaid from 6.2% to 7.2%.
And as you recall back in the second quarter I reiterated that we were on a glide path to accelerate our ARPU growth and our revenue growth into the third quarter and I continue to see that ramp going into the fourth quarter.
Now as far as service revenue goes we did have a $61 million decline in wholesale and other and the majority of this was all related to the Alltel properties and that traffic moving off of our network.
So as far as going forward that traffic's gone.
But just keep in mind that that revenue stream is less than 4% of our total revenue so it really has no impact on the bottom line per se.
And that's why we're focused in on the entire postpaid base area.
Now as far as Wireline goes what I would say is that when you consider the storms and all that and then from a perspective of the backlog that we have both on the FiOS side and also the Enterprise side this leads into what will continue into the fourth quarter.
And I think we've been very clear that both Lowell and I’s objective is to improve the overall profitability and cash flow of the Wireline unit.
And what I would say is is that we will increase the margin in the fourth quarter.
I think there will be some echo effect here from the backlog on a top line basis in booking that revenue.
Now having said that Terremark did have an outstanding September and that revenue will flow in the fourth quarter.
So at this point I think it's too early to tell exactly where we'll end up.
We started to recover from the storms on the installations side in the last 3 weeks of the third quarter.
FiOS adds actually came in better than we thought.
Originally we thought we would be about a 50% run rate.
We came in higher than that.
So we're starting to eat into that backlog and it's a fact of how quickly we can get there.
Our next question comes from John Hodulik of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess maybe a follow-up to Jason's last question there.
Could you give us more detail on the FiOS sense of storm-related costs and maybe break that out a bit? And I guess similar to his question I guess you're suggesting that we're going to see some our expenses in 4Q given the backlog.
I'm just trying to get a sense of if the margins in 4Q snap back to 2Q levels or what the depth will be.
And then I guess while we're still talking about margins you benefited from somewhat fewer upgrades fewer smartphone sales.
As we look in the margin on the Wireless side on the 4Q should we expect that to reverse given the sort of people waiting for the iPhone and then the typical seasonality we see in 4Q? If you could just give us a sense of how you expect that to fall in the fourth quarter that would be great.
John so thanks for the question on the storms.
As you know this was an experience unprecedented from Hurricane Irene and the Tropical Storm Lee over a very short period of time.
And speaking with our operating people these storms were a really big deal for us.
They produced really strong winds about 20 inches of rain across our entire footprint damage to our outside network facilities phone lines.
Just to give you an idea of how severe this storm was we had over 4 000 poles down which damaged countless cables; 820 000 more dispatches in our core which was 2x our normal; we had about 254 central offices running off of generator because of power outages.
So this storm was extremely significant impact to our normal operating results.
Having said that I think the team has done an unbelievable job in getting the repair and maintenance queue back into a relatively normal position.
There's probably a couple of more weeks here and then we'll be back running very clean there.
And as I said we recovered late in the third quarter from an installation perspective but there will be some trickle effect here into the fourth quarter and it's more of a top line issue I think in getting this revenue installed and booked and recorded than it is more of an expense issue although I think there still will be some trickle of overtime into the fourth quarter in getting this back to speed.
But the trajectory I guess the way I would say it is we've been on a very good momentum in improving the overall Wireline margin.
We've had a bit of a setback here due to the storm.
We'll get back on track.
As far as the Wireless margin goes what I would say there is this goes beyond just less devices sold.
This is -- we had a $1.8 billion program at the beginning of the year for Wireless to reduce cost.
We're $1.6 billion into that program of savings recorded from logistics and real estate and customer service centers and other things that Wireless has worked on.
So it's more just around less devices.
It's more around operating the most efficient business in the industry from a Wireless perspective.
Our next question will come from Phil Cusick of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Quickly just a follow-up on John's comment and then a bigger question.
With Wireline margins maybe dragged a little bit in terms of rebound in the fourth quarter and Wireless probably down in 4Q first you reiterated EPS guidance but should we be thinking sort of low end there? And is there any risk to the low end of that? And then second in terms of a bigger question can you talk about what you're seeing from customers and the economy? We have seen -- Enterprise decelerated a little bit here.
Wholesale you talked about it improving sequentially but what are you seeing out there in terms of what your customers are telling you both for this year and then their planning process for next year? Phil so let me hit the economy first.
I think that overall from an economic impact we are still seeing some real severe impact in the small business arena some in the mid-tier.
And again it's not that we're losing more business competitors.
That's pretty consistent.
What it is is that the startups have not been created from an economic standpoint.
So I think that's where the biggest issue is that we have from an economic standpoint.
Now having said that the Enterprise if you recall the first and second quarter we showed positive growth even when you take out Terremark.
This quarter we showed growth with Terremark about a 0.5% decrease without Terremark and that was really more around the backlog of installing the new circuits and the new business because we were really focused on the repairs and maintenance side.
So that's going to -- I think we’re going to improve here on the fourth quarter.
We'll get quickly back on track but from an overall Enterprise perspective it is all around cloud services.
So the Terremark asset our security portfolio those types of things are going to drive the Enterprise business to where we needed to go.
And then overall on EPS what I'll say is even given this extraordinary event in the third quarter we will hit our guidance that we gave in the beginning of the year.
Our next question comes from Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could update us on the labor negotiations where we stand on that and in particular as we come to the end of the year the sort of the benefits outlook.
Perhaps you can expand on the $0.07 charge and just talk us through what you think the impacts in the fourth quarter might be given the asset returns and given potential benefit changes as part of the union contract renegotiation.
Simon as far as the union negotiations go we continue to speak to the union.
It's going like any negotiation goes so as we said this was going to be a marathon not a quick negotiation and we continue with those negotiations.
And at this point it's too early to tell where we'll come out.
We know what we need from a business.
We need cost structural change in the Wireline business.
It is not sustainable with 100% benefits being paid and 100% pension benefits.
So those things have to change.
And then there's a lot of work rules and other things that we need to change in order to run our business efficiently and be competitive with the cable companies and our other competitors.
So from that perspective that's about it for the union negotiations.
On the fourth quarter charge it's really too early to tell because the discount rate won't be set until December 31.
The return on assets it really depends on your portfolio compared to what your assumptions were and at this point we don't know where we'll end up with that yet.
So I think it's premature to tell but obviously there will be a mark-to-market adjustment in the fourth quarter.
So beyond that there's really nothing else to disclose until we get to the end of the year and we get to the January call and we'll make sure that we explain everything that happened during that quarter.
Research Division</strong> And the $0.07 Fran? Well on the $0.07 this was an impact we had to take a charge in the management plan and it's really around the GAAP settlement accounting charges.
So it is what it is from a GAAP perspective and it's because the lump sum payments exceeded the periodic expense and in GAAP you have to take a settlement charge when that happens and that happened this year -- during the quarter I'm sorry.
Our next question is from Jennifer Fritzsche of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Fran we've all seen the big number that AT&amp;T has put out with the iPhone 4S and I know the iPhone is clearly as you indicated an important part of your portfolio.
But as we look at this kind of next generation of the device how do you see it? Because with just over a third-year base having smartphones in my view you have a clear opportunity for upgrades.
So with this device as other iPhone users come off contract it also gives you a huge opportunity to maybe win back some new gross adds that maybe you lost when AT&amp;T first had it.
And can you just comment as you look at this mix of this device how do you balance those 2 opportunities? Yes so as far as the iPhone 4S goes we are extremely pleased with our sales.
We ran out the first day.
We are on allocation from Apple.
We continue to be on allocation and we continue to be in backlog from the first 24 hours.
So we're extremely pleased with that.
What I will tell you I'm not going to get into volumes.
It's too early in the quarter as to how many phones I'll potentially sell.
But what I will say is that the ratio of upgrade and new on the Apple phone has not changed pre and post launch.
So we continue to generate that 20% new with around 80% upgrade.
So we feel that third quarter performance will continue into our fourth quarter performance.
And then from an overall device perspective is that the lead that we have around LTE 4G and the 15 devices including notebooks that we have in that ecosystem is unsurpassed by any competitor.
And I think we have a strategic advantage here and we sold more 4G devices this quarter than we did last quarter.
I will tell you that if you look at our Internet devices about 95% are all now 4G LTE and that's a big deal for us because that means we are now moving high-end users on MiFi and dongles off of 3G network on to 4G which obviously frees up spectrum and reduces our capital expense which you saw here in the third quarter.
So we're executing on the strategy that we laid out and I think we'll have a very successful fourth quarter with our portfolio layout of devices.
Our next question comes from Michael Rollins of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Real quick can we just get an update as to where the Wireless net debt is at the end of this third quarter? And then secondly going back to the Wireline side can you give us a bit of an update on where the non-FiOS territory stands in terms of performance your need or interest to invest further in that footprint to improve broadband capabilities and where that piece of the portfolio sits strategically for you? Michael so from a net debt on Wireless they have gross debt of $12.5 billion cash on hand of $9 billion.
Net debt is $3.5 billion.
On the Wireline side in the non-FiOS areas obviously our strategy is to complete the $18 million build for FiOS and transition that.
And as you know we've really concentrated on investing in FiOS and curtailing the investment in the copper network and moving people from copper to FiOS.
And that is a big strategic initiative that Lowell has set out for the business to accomplish.
Now those lines that are outside that FiOS and outside of any potential of pathing [ph] ever with FiOS we will continue to be competitive in this area but I think it's going to be around LTE.
We're not going to invest a lot of capital in the copper core network in those outlying areas.
But I think we have a strategic bundle that we can go into those households with give them a better experience than what they're currently having on their DSL line from a bundling of the Wireless portfolio that we have.
So that's the strategy that we're going to deploy.
Research Division</strong> And Fran just to follow-up on that is there any thought of taking that non-FiOS bundle with the -- presumably LTE broadband LTE voice why not taking that more nationally and making that more of a national product for you versus just maybe an out-of-FiOS region but in-territory-of-Verizon product? Well we are and you're going to see that come in the fourth quarter with the -- what we now call the cantenna which is not a commercial name obviously but it's the antenna that we actually trialed with DIRECTV which was extremely successful.
And again the benefit of this antenna is it operates the spectrum extremely efficiently.
So if you look at a MiFi card or a dongle this is very very efficient way above those 2 devices which is why it's critical to have that bundle with that cantenna.
So when we launch that you're going to see us go nationally with that type of an offer.
Our next question will come from David Barden of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Fran if I can just do 2 quick ones.
Number one are you able at this stage of the game to maybe size the upside opportunity that you guys have from this potential intercarrier comp refresh that we're expecting to come potentially at the end of the month and get implemented next year? And then second you called out the Alltel roaming impact in the quarter.
Obviously Sprint has a game plan where over the next 2 years they're saying that they want to get rid of about $1 billion in roaming expense from refreshing their network.
Could you kind of tell us what your exposure to Sprint is and how you think about the roaming impact on 2012 and beyond? David so first on the intercarrier comp and I guess I'll lump in the USF here as well we are fully supportive of the regulatory change the FCC is heading up not exactly what the industry is looking at but really in the right direction of cutting the access charges immediately and then phasing them out over time.
Complete overhaul of the USF cost subsidy promoting broadband and getting away from the voice subsidy and moving that to broadband so we are all in favor of that.
As far as the intercarrier comp goes we have been a leader in this industry forcing this issue really from twofold: one to get a more systematic approach in the entire industry; and then also to really relieve the industry of the fraud and the traffic pumping schemes that are happening with that -- throughout.
So from a benefit overall perspective we are a net payer so obviously there will be some benefits.
But there will also be some puts and takes within our own portfolio.
So if you think about it Wireline probably won't have a benefit but Wireless and VZB will.
So with each of the individual units once we determine what the impact of the bill -- of the regulation is and the sizing of that then we'll have a better understanding of what those benefits are and we'll share them at that time.
As far as the Alltel roaming and then into Sprint I know there's been a lot of numbers cast out there but the impact to us is nowhere near the numbers that are being reported.
So all I will tell you is this is that there has to be a lot of execution in order for that to happen.
Our revenue is not material at all from Sprint.
So I think that there's a lot of numbers being thrown out but not a lot of justification behind the number that's being thrown out especially from where I sit on my side of the house.
So I think we'll just have to wait and see what the execution of that plan is but I don't think this is a near-term issue.
Our next question comes from Brett Feldman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> You talked earlier about how some of the margin strength you saw in Wireless during the quarter was not just a function of a slowdown in gross adds you had in the iPhone but also some of the cost measures you’ve put in place.
If we think ahead though you will probably see a pretty meaningful improvement in your gross adds in the fourth quarter.
I mean just by way of thinking about this from order of magnitude if you were to end up in the fourth quarter with a high watermark for postpaid net adds does that mean you would be at a low watermark for EBITDA margins? Or have you actually put in place enough operational cost savings that you could come in a little bit better than that? Well Brett I think I'll reiterate what I said at the beginning of the year.
We're going to have peaks and valleys here as phones come and phones go.
Obviously the fourth quarter every year due to holiday season we tend to sell more phones.
When we sell more phones our margins will go down but I think we've proven that even with the initial launch and now into the -- where we are we have managed both sides of the balance here.
We've gone for growth.
We are very concentrated on profitability and a free cash flow so I think we'll wait and see how the fourth quarter comes out.
But look I mean obviously we are extremely focused on the profitability and the free cash flow of this business so we will continue to be disciplined around capital and so forth and deliver what we need to deliver.
Research Division</strong> And just one quick point there since you mentioned cash flow.
Maybe I missed it but I don't think you talked about your CapEx outlook for the rest of the year.
I think you said previously you'll be flat.
Year-over-year are you still looking for that or maybe a little lighter based on where you are with Wireless? The guidance was $16.5 billion and I said that we would decelerate in the back half of the year and we are still right on track to deliver at that $16.5 billion.
So if you do the math for the fourth quarter you'll see that Wireless will be about maybe slightly higher than it was in the third quarter but not much.
And Wireline will be right on track so $16.5 billion is where we'll end up.
Our next question comes from Mike McCormack of Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> Fran could you just make a comment -- AT&amp;T is out there with -- I guess they ran out of inventory but probably getting more in 4Q on the 3GS for free and also the lower price on the iPhone 4.
Do you guys have any thoughts on sort of the competitive landscape going into or -- we’re already in 4Q but on trying to meet some of those offerings that AT&amp;T is with -- is out there with? And then secondarily maybe just some commentary around your customers that signed up and have contracts on the iPhone 4.
What is the behavior there? Are they coming back to you looking for an upgrade of the 4S and how are you reacting to that? Two things Mike.
I mean obviously as we have said and continue to say in the past when we compete on a paratable [ph] basis we outperform and have outperformed the entire industry and we don't think that will change so we will compete extremely heavily even with the -- another provider getting the Apple iPhone.
It doesn't really concern us.
We will compete and when we compete head-to-head we generally win in that competition.
So we'll continue to out-execute where we can and continue to deliver both profits and cash flow.
The other thing is is that if you look at the net adds I mean obviously that speaks for itself and we believe that that will continue into the fourth quarter.
Now as far as customers on the 4 -- the Apple 4 and the 4S no what we're seeing is that as you know the Apple 4 can be upgraded with software to almost get to almost 95% of what the S has in it.
Now it's a long process to get that software upgrade in the phone but 4 customers have come in and asked for the upgrade and that's how we're handling that.
Research Division</strong> Just one more if I can.
On the Digital Voice connections kind of a random question but Digital Voice connections were 265 000 in the quarter which was much higher than FiOS Internet and TV.
Is there some sort of promotion you're running there? Or how should we think about that? No again Mike this goes to our strategy of moving people to the new technology and there's really a 2-phased approach here.
As we move people to FiOS obviously our operating cost structure gets benefited by almost 2x because the amount of truck rolls that I have on copper versus FiOS is about 2x.
So by moving those customers off copper on to digital FiOS I eliminate that copper truck roll into that home.
So it is all around the strategy of eliminating the amount of folks I have on copper and the reduction of our operating expenses in the Wireline business.
Our next question is from Chris Larsen of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on Wireless as well.
One of the things I think that you guys have looked at doing to help margins is extend the upgrade rates and I know we've had questions on the iPhone but can you talk a little bit about some of the things that you've done including eliminating the 2 every new (sic) [New Every Two] program and where your upgrade -- months to upgrade has been moving? And then secondly I saw that -- it looks like prepaid a nice or decent growth here this quarter.
Can you talk a little bit about the competitive environment around prepaid and what's going on there? Chris so on the upgrade rates we were actually at 8.6% this quarter so that was slightly down from the past 2 quarters of 9%.
So the upgrade rate is pretty much steady as course -- in the course.
The decline in the upgrade rate this quarter was due to the people anticipating the new iPhone.
But from a change of policy we changed that midyear last year where we eliminated the New Every Two credit and some other things that we did and we really haven't found any impact to the upgrade.
What we have found is that not much financial benefit this year but there will be more financial benefit in 2012 by the change of that policy so we think that was beneficial for us from a longer-term perspective.
On the prepaid side of the house we are starting to see some momentum here.
As you know we launched the Unleashed product on 9/15 which was the same time that we entered into our new distribution agreement with RadioShack.
And really too preliminary to tell but I believe that based on the preliminary effects of what happened since we did launch that product we will see some improvement in prepaid and I think -- I'm hopeful that if you eliminate the tablets from prepaid we will actually show some net add positive growth for the first time in a while in our prepaid voice category.
So this month -- this quarter just to clarify our prepaid voice was down about 52 000.
Now that was an improvement from the second quarter which was 179 000.
So the Unleashed product and bringing the distribution of RadioShack has already started to show that improvement in the last 15 days of the quarter so I think we're going to compete extremely well in the fourth quarter on our Unleashed product.
Our next question comes from Jonathan Chaplin of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification a couple of clarifications actually.
First On CapEx Fran are we looking for $9.6 billion-ish in Wireless CapEx for this year if 4Q is going to be a little bit above 3Q? And then where does that go for next year just for Wireless specifically? And then in terms of the impacts to wholesale ARPU was the $60 million all AT&amp;T -- stuff that you divested to AT&amp;T has it now moved off of your network? Or is it moving revenues from the wholesale category to the retail category within the Alltel subset [ph] that you kept? Jonathan so on the CapEx side the plan that's for Wireless is at the $8.9 billion number and they'll come in on that number.
And as far as next year goes we're not going to talk about 2012 at this point.
From a wholesale perspective not all $61 million of that was roaming.
I said the majority of it was.
There was some decline in our reseller base as well but that was really just the properties of Alltel that they roamed on us and now they've converted it to their network.
So keep in mind we sold those properties to AT&amp;T so they're their properties and they moved that traffic to their network which we planned for.
We knew they were going to do it so it's not a surprise.
Our next question comes from James Ratcliffe of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> If you could talk a little bit about the ARPU impact on voice you're actually seeing directly connected to operating the smartphones if customers actually are looking at that as an opportunity to tune their voices and should we expect as eventually smartphones to move forward into flatter part of the S-curve that the pressure on voice could abate? James actually from a voice perspective we've actually seen a little bit of an improvement on the dilution of the voice revenue.
So we're not seeing any more change right now with people going to smartphones and talking less on the phone.
The dilution of that has been pretty consistent but obviously the data and the ARPU on the overall customer is increasing.
So we had a very nice ARPU increase this quarter and I expect that to continue into the fourth quarter.
Our final question will come from Peter Rhamey of BMO Capital Markets.
Fran you talked about scaling efficiencies in U-verse as you've curtailed your network deployment and of course you're only marketing to just 13 14 million homes right now.
I was wondering if you could take us through whether that's going to be a material margin improvement on a go-forward basis in U-verse and whether we'd see it in the consolidated results or is it just directionally a positive for your company on Wireline? Peter I'm assuming you're talking about FiOS right? FiOS excuse me.
My apologies.
It's all right.
Yes so from a -- just from an overall perspective the biggest cost content of FiOS is obviously content but the profitability of FiOS continues to increase quarter-over-quarter as we monitor it.
The operating income is continuing to improve so the operating efficiency of FiOS is there.
The issue that Lowell has set out for the business which is the absolute right strategic decision is move folks off of copper onto FiOS because the operating efficiency of FiOS is far better than the operating cost of the legacy copper network.
So I think as we do that we will continue to show the momentum of Wireline overall margin improvement going forward.
Thanks for everybody for joining us this morning.
Brad that concludes our call.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon conference services.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Verizon Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr.
John Doherty Senior Vice President Investor Relations for Verizon.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Thanks for joining us this morning I'm John Doherty.
With me this morning is Fran Shammo.
Before we get started let me remind you that our earnings release financial and operating information investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website.
This call is being webcast.
If you would like to listen to a replay you can do so from our website.
I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement.
Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties.
Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC which are available on our website.
This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also on our website.
For the fourth quarter of 2011 we reported a loss of $0.71 per share on a GAAP basis.
These results include a noncash pension and benefits charge of $5.6 billion on a pretax basis.
This mark-to-market adjustment related to our current year asset returns discount rate and mortality assumption changes in our pension and postretirement plans.
This adjustment is in accordance with the accounting policy we adopted a year ago which requires us to recognize actuarial gains and losses in the year in which they occur and not smooth the effects over a longer period of time.
Adjusting for $1.23 per share of nonoperational items fourth quarter EPS was $0.52 bringing our full year 2011 adjusted EPS to $2.15.
The comparable adjusted EPS in 2010 was $2.08.
With that I will now turn the call over to Fran.
Thanks John and good morning everyone and happy new year.
Before we get into the details let me start with a few summary comments.
We finished the year very strong creating value for our shareholders in 2011 by generating a total return of 18.2% through a combination of stock price appreciation of 12.1% and our dividend payments.
Our stock price appreciation outpaced our peers as well as the S&amp;P Dow Jones and broader indices.
For the fifth consecutive year our Board of Directors approved a dividend increase indicating their confidence in the sustainability of our business model cash flows and our improving earnings profile into 2012 and beyond.
In 2011 we also made some smart investments for the future growth and improved profitability.
While very disciplined in our approach to capital spending we continue to invest in networks and new technologies which will be the platform for accelerated growth.
On the strategic front we made some moves that will significantly improve our competitive position.
These include the acquisitions of Terremark and CloudSwitch in the cloud computing space several agreements to purchase additional spectrum joint efforts around innovation with a number of partners including the cable companies and of course our continued leadership in the rapid development of the 4G LTE ecosystem.
We also renewed our focus on delivering solutions to customers and the markets we serve by better leveraging our capabilities across all parts of the business wireless FiOS Strategic Services the cloud digital media and our global high-speed IP network.
Our recently formed Global Enterprise solutions organization will strengthen our ability to provide fully integrated customer solutions.
In addition to making these investments in our future 2011 was a great year of solid execution.
We posted record revenue growth in the fourth quarter resulting in adjusted revenue growth of 6.2% for the full year a significant acceleration from just below 2% growth in 2010.
In addition to our strong revenue results our sharp focus on capturing operating efficiencies helped us to mitigate a number of cost pressures driving an increase to consolidated EBITDA of more than $950 million.
We also had a strong year in terms of cash generation with $13.5 billion in free cash flow.
2011 was an impressive year on a number of fronts giving us tremendous confidence about our long-term growth prospects.
Now let's turn our attention to the fourth quarter starting with a few highlights.
As I just noted we had a very strong revenue performance in the fourth quarter.
Our 7.7% year-over-year growth was easily our highest quarterly growth of the year and in fact the highest quarterly growth since the formation of Verizon 11 years ago.
In wireless we had our best quarter ever in terms of smartphone sales 4G LTE device sales and customer upgrades along with the most retail gross adds in the 3 years.
We lead the industry in retail postpaid connections and our 1.2 million postpaid net adds this quarter demonstrates that we continue to gain market share.
We are by far the market leader in 4G LTE which is now available in 195 markets covering more than 200 million POPs with increasing customer awareness of its superior speeds capabilities and new high-quality devices.
4G LTE is really taking hold.
In addition to record device sales in the quarter we are seeing a high-level activity at our innovation centers in Waltham and San Francisco.
We currently offer about 20 4G LTE smartphone and data devices and at CES we announced 2 more mobile hotspots now called Jetpacks.
Three smartphones: 2 for Motorola and one from LG and the Samsung Galaxy Tablet.
Clearly the Verizon 4G LTE network is becoming the destination of choice for consumer and enterprise customers which is a strong indicator for us looking forward.
In Wireline our revenue mix continues to improve with FiOS representing 61% of our consumer revenue and enterprise Strategic Services making up 51% of our Global Enterprise revenue in the quarter.
We effectively worked through the numerous challenges of the third quarter to restore Wireline segment profitability.
Wireline EBITDA increased to $2.4 billion in the quarter resulting in a 23.8% EBITDA margin in line with where we ended the second quarter.
Now that we are back on track I am confident that we will see Wireline margin expansion in 2012.
Again a strong finish to a solid year making us very confident about our growth opportunities in 2012 and beyond.
Let's turn to Slide 5 next.
Fourth quarter consolidated revenues grew 7.7% year-over-year resulting in adjusted annual growth of 6.2% solidly within our 2011 guidance range of 4% to 8%.
Reported earnings for the fourth quarter on a GAAP basis were a net loss of $0.71 per share due to the significant noncash charge associated with our pension and postretirement plans.
The largest component of this actuarial true-up has to do with our discount rate assumption which was 5.75% at the beginning of the year.
At the end of the year this rate is adjusted to an estimate of the yields of high-quality long-term bonds which was determined to be 5%.
Another part of this true-up relates to our return on pension assets.
We assumed an 8% ROA at the beginning of the year and we came in at 5% for the year.
There were also adjustments required based on mortality assumption changes.
Excluding non-operational items we earned $0.52 per share in the quarter bringing our full year 2011 adjusted EPS result to $2.15 up 3.4% from a comparable $2.08 per share in 2010.
Coming out of the third quarter we indicated that we were on track to meet our 2011 earnings guidance of 5% to 8% growth.
Earlier this month I indicated that a very strong December resulted in higher-than-expected wireless device sales which sets up well for 2012 but resulted in us falling a little short of our full year EPS growth target by $0.02.
I would also remind you that our $2.15 adjusted result included $0.05 of negative impact primarily from the storms in the third quarter.
So from my perspective an adjusted EPS of $2.20 is a more logical starting point for you when considering our 2012 earnings growth potential.
Let's turn next to cash flow and capital spending on Slide 6.
Our free cash flow in the fourth quarter and full year was once again a combination of strong cash generation and reduced levels of capital spending.
Capital expenditures for the full year totaled $16.2 billion representing a decrease of 1.3% from 2010.
In addition to being lower than the prior year the $16.2 billion was favorable to our guidance of $16.5 billion.
Our capital efficiency has improved steadily and was below 15% for the year.
With the heavy investment cycles necessary to transform our business largely behind us we would expect our CapEx to revenue ratio which is already at a historical low to continue declining based on disciplined capital spending and improving revenue growth trends.
In Wireless capital spending in the fourth quarter was $1.8 billion bringing the full year to $9 billion an increase of 6.3%.
The incremental spending in 2011 was a combination of 3G capacity requirements driven by the Apple iPhone and the continued rapid expansion of our 4G LTE network.
In 2012 we will continue to migrate traffic from our 3G EV-DO network to 4G LTE thereby freeing up 3G capacity and improving our capital and operating efficiencies.
In addition we will continue to expand our 4G LTE network coverage which is already the largest in the nation and our target is to have 4G LTE coverage similar to our 3G coverage by mid-2013.
In Wireline capital spending was $1.6 billion in the fourth quarter bringing the full year to $6.4 billion a decline of more than $800 million or 12%.
The decline in spending was driven by lower FiOS build-out cost as well as efficiency gains from investing in newer technologies.
From a balance sheet perspective we ended the year in a strong financial position.
Total debt was $55.2 billion and net debt was $41.8 billion.
Our net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio was about 1.2x.
As a reminder the previously announced $10 billion Verizon Wireless cash distribution will occur next week.
Let's now move into a review of the segments starting with Wireless on Slide 7.
Our Wireless business had another impressive quarter of growth particularly with regard to retail customer activity.
Total revenue grew to $18.3 billion in the fourth quarter up 13% year-over-year.
Retail service revenue which includes both postpaid and prepaid grew 7.8% year-over-year which is a 90-basis point improvement in growth over the third quarter.
Total service revenue in the quarter grew 6.4% year-over-year up from 6.1% growth in the third quarter.
Within total service revenues growth was impacted by year-over-year declines in roaming and wholesale revenue which collectively amounted to roughly $140 million in the fourth quarter.
Looking forward we expect to see less impact on year-over-year growth rates from these factors as we move through 2012.
Total data revenue grew to $6.3 billion in the quarter up 19.2% year-over-year.
Data now represents 41.6% of total service revenue.
Data revenue growth continued to be driven by web and email services which increased to $4 billion in the quarter up more than 34% year-over-year.
Messaging revenue which makes up about 30% of total data grew nearly 4% in the quarter on a year-over-year basis.
Let's take a closer look at our connections growth on Slide 8.
We ended the year with industry-leading total connections of 108.7 million up 6.3% from 2010.
We continue to gain share in the retail postpaid market with 87.4 million connections driven by demand for our unmatched portfolio of 3G and 4G LTE handsets and Internet data devices.
Retail net adds of 1.5 million in the quarter were the highest we've seen in 3 years.
Within retail 1.2 million were postpaid and 252 000 were prepaid.
Within the postpaid net add mix 1 million were smartphones and 400 000 were Internet data devices.
The remaining being the net change in basic phones.
Of particular interest more than 700 000 of these net adds were 4G LTE smartphones or data devices.
In retail prepaid fourth quarter net add growth was equally distributed between tablets and phones.
This quarter marks the first time in 2 years that prepaid phones excluding tablets had positive net adds.
This is due to the success of our $50 monthly unlimited prepaid phone offer which we put in place on a national basis in mid-September.
Postpaid device sales which include both gross adds and upgrades were significantly higher this quarter driven by the Apple iPhone 4S as well as the increasing popularity of our 4G LTE smartphones and Internet data devices.
Retail postpaid gross adds totaled 3.6 million in the quarter an increase of 10% sequentially and 7.6% year-over-year.
The percentage of postpaid customers upgrading this quarter moved up to 10%.
The continued demand for our wireless products is not only driving growth in connections and revenue but also strengthening our industry-leading customer loyalty metrics.
Our churn metrics this quarter were excellent once again with retail postpaid churn of only 0.94% an improvement of 7 basis points over the fourth quarter of 2010.
Now let's turn to Slide 9 and take a closer look at our smartphones and retail postpaid ARPU metrics.
As I said we had a record quarter in terms of smartphone sales increasing the penetration of our retail postpaid phone base to 44%.
A year ago smartphone penetration was 28%.
We have made very good progress in 2011.
70% of all retail postpaid phones sold this quarter were smartphones a solid increase from 60% in each of the last 2 quarters.
During the quarter we activated 4.3 million Apple iPhones and sold 1.6 million 4G LTE smartphones.
In addition we sold roughly 700 000 4G LTE Internet data devices.
As I said sales of 4G LTE products are clearly gaining momentum.
Shifting now to ARPU.
Retail postpaid ARPU was $54.80 this quarter up 2.5% year-over-year.
Retail postpaid phone ARPU exceeds $56 up 4% on a year-over-year basis.
Postpaid Internet devices have an ARPU of just under $49 which was down 11% from a year ago.
This decline was mainly due to a strategic price change we made in the fourth quarter of 2010.
We made this pricing move to expand the market given our expectation that the superior capabilities of 4G LTE will generate more demand and increase data usage on these devices.
We did expand the market in 2011 with approximately 3.8 million unit sales which included mobile hotspots USB modems and tablets.
We now have about 7 million subscribers with these devices representing about 8% of our retail postpaid base.
While the unit growth of these devices is diluting our overall retail postpaid ARPU at this time fourth quarter revenue growth from these devices was 10% on a year-over-year basis.
In addition to making a positive contribution to top line growth the greater efficiency of our 4G LTE network means that this data revenue is also generating higher margins and driving improved profitability.
Let's conclude our Wireless segment review with a discussion about profitability on Slide 10.
2011 was another strong year of industry leadership in terms of margin performance and cash generation.
With the introduction of the Apple iPhone and numerous 4G LTE smartphones during the year we indicated last January that margins would fluctuate in certain quarters depending on new device rollouts and sales.
Looking back on our quarterly margin performance in 2011 shows this to be the case with strong sales in the first and fourth quarters pressuring EBITDA.
As I mentioned the sales volumes in the fourth quarter exceeded our expectations but obviously will create more opportunity for growth in 2012.
Our strong performance in terms of customer additions and market share gains coupled with increased smartphone penetration drove increases in retail service revenues and accelerating phone ARPU.
In addition our intense focus on cost efficiency is clearly helping to mitigate the cost of higher equipment subsidies.
Our industry-leading customer retention has also helped the margin and performance which is a testament to the quality and reliability of our network and to the overall customer experience.
Verizon Wireless continues to be the industry leader.
And with another year of impressive overall performance we've built great momentum heading into a new year expecting to sustain our strong growth and profitability.
Let's move to our Wireline segment next on Slide 11.
Total revenue in the fourth quarter was $10.1 billion a decline of $150 million or 1.5% year-over-year.
With the full year Wireline revenue totaled $40.7 billion down 1.3%.
In the fourth quarter consumer revenue grew 1.3% year-over-year driven by FiOS revenue growth of 18.2%.
In Global Enterprise fourth quarter revenue also grew 1.3% driven once again by Strategic Services which increased 14.7% year-over-year.
As I've said Strategic Services which include Terremark are growing portion of our revenue mix representing 51% of total enterprise revenue in the fourth quarter.
From a profitability perspective the fourth quarter Wireline EBITDA margin recovered nicely from the challenges of the third quarter increasing 240 basis points sequentially to 23.8%.
Let's take a closer look at our revenue performance starting with mass markets on Slide 12.
Fourth quarter revenue for mass markets increased 0.7% on a year-over-year basis.
Consumer revenue which represents a majority of this category grew 1.3% in the quarter.
Consumer ARPU steadily increased throughout the year and is now more than $96.
I would also highlight that our residential connections trends continue to improve.
We lost 183 000 retail residential connections in the fourth quarter representing the 7.3% decline compared with the loss of 303 000 or 9% in the fourth quarter of last year.
In broadband we added 201 000 FiOS Internet subscribers in the quarter increasing our subscriber base to 4.8 million and penetration to 36%.
By adding in our 3.9 million high-speed Internet or DSL customers we ended the quarter with a total of 8.7 million broadband connections adding a net positive 98 000 broadband connections in the fourth quarter.
In FiOS Video we added 194 000 subscribers in the quarter bringing our total to 4.2 million and increasing our penetration to 32%.
Within our FiOS subscriber base about 3.5 million customers are triple play and FiOS ARPU increased in the fourth quarter to more than $148 per month.
In terms of our deployment we ended the year with 16.5 million premises passed adding just over 900 000 in 2011.
We had 13.6 million homes open for sale for Internet and 13.3 million for video.
From my perspective 2011 was a very good year for FiOS both operationally and financially.
For the full year FiOS revenue grew 20% to $8.3 billion.
Looking ahead our focus will once again be to increase penetration drive market and wallet share gains realize more efficiency from a cost perspective and expand margins.
Let's move next to our business markets starting with Global Enterprise.
Strategic Services continued to drive the year-over-year improvement in Global Enterprise revenue led by very strong growth in advanced services such as managed network call center IP communications and our cloud offerings.
In the fourth quarter these services totaled $2 billion up 14.7% year-over-year representing just over half of Global Enterprise revenue.
As we've seen for the last several quarters the growth in Strategic Services outpaced the decline in core Enterprise Services.
Terremark revenues were up about 10% sequentially in the fourth quarter and roughly 18% year-over-year.
Within our Global Enterprise solutions we are focused on shifting our product mix to higher gross service offerings and we continue to gain traction here.
In less strategic areas like core voice data and hardware we've continued to look for ways to improve overall margin profitability.
One example is our deemphasis on sales of hardware or CPE particularly drop-ship equipment that is not part of an overall enterprise solutions bundle.
During 2011 hardware sales were down roughly $340 million on an annual basis.
In the fourth quarter alone hardware revenue was down $147 million or 21.6% year-over-year.
Looking at the services revenue component of Global Enterprises reveals a more positive growth trend.
In the fourth quarter Enterprise Services revenue grew 2.7% year-over-year excluding Terremark which was not part of our results a year ago.
If Terremark was included the rate of growth would've been higher but would not represent a true baseline.
In Global Wholesale revenues in the fourth quarter declined 7.6% year-over-year due primarily to declines in voice where we continued to experience secular pressures and lower volumes offset in part by increases in certain data services.
Our deemphasis of certain nonprofitable International Voice routes created downward pressure on revenue but did contribute to improved wholesale margins.
Let's move to Slide 14 for our 2011 wrap up.
We had a strong finish to a very solid year in 2011 giving us great momentum and confidence heading into the new year.
Wireless FiOS and Enterprise Strategic Services all contributed to significant improvements and adjusted revenue growth where we moved from just under 2% in 2010 to more than 6% in 2011.
These revenue improvements and our focus on capturing operating efficiencies helped us to mitigate various cost pressures throughout the business creating solid growth in earnings and strong free cash flow supported by our disciplined approach to capital spending.
On the strategic front we made a number of investments that have improved our competitive position and differentiated us in the marketplace setting the stage for future growth and improved profitability.
I believe investors recognized our progress in 2011 as our stock price appreciation and competitive dividend generated a total return to shareholders of 18.2%.
We enter 2012 with great confidence in our ability to take advantage of the market opportunities we see in our key strategic growth areas.
As I mentioned in my opening remarks you will see a renewed focus on delivering solutions to all of our customers and the markets that we serve by better leveraging our capabilities across all parts of the business.
Our Global Enterprise solutions organization is just one example highlighting a more integrated approach in how we develop and deliver customer solutions including a vertical industry focus into areas like education and healthcare as examples.
Another example is the way in which we are managing our top multinational accounts in collaboration with Vodafone where this makes sense for both companies.
In terms of our acquisition of AWS spectrum from SpectrumCo we are looking forward to closing the transaction after review by the Department of Justice and approval by the FCC which we anticipate by midyear.
We are also making progress in our additional agreements with the cable companies subject to the DOJ's expected review.
Just last week Comcast and Verizon announced that we are offering each other's products and services in Seattle and Portland as our initial markets.
We expect to launch in additional cities in the coming months.
We have great momentum in Wireless and we expect to build on that strength driving further penetration of smartphones and furthering our leadership position in 4G LTE.
In FiOS we expect to drive higher penetration in existing markets and effectively capture pent-up demand in multidwelling units and new markets.
And in the enterprise space we are clearly gaining traction as the leading global provider in the information technology solution space.
The integration of Terremark and the addition of CloudSwitch have significantly improved our competitive position giving us a unique set of capabilities to combine solutions around the network data center security and cloud infrastructure.
Another key focus area will be to continue to drive operating efficiencies across and throughout the entire business.
With the formation of our operational excellence and process transformation organization reporting directly to Lowell we are devoting dedicated resources to examining all costs and processes including product rationalization back office operations and system consolidation.
The upshot of our ability to execute and capture these incremental revenue opportunities and operating efficiencies will be an increase in the cash flows of the business.
As I've said the heavy investment cycles of the first 10 years of Verizon are largely behind us and we have transformed ourselves into a company very well positioned in the growth markets of the future.
We have the platforms we have the people and we have the capabilities.
We are poised to build on the strong foundation we have accelerate the momentum we've achieved further increase investment returns and create significant shareholder value in the years to come.
With that I will turn the call back to John so we can get to your questions.
Thanks Fran.
Brad let's open it up for questions please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from John Hodulik of UBS.
Research Division</strong> If we could just start with the -- or stay with the 2012 outlook.
Last year Fran when you gave the 5% to 8% earnings growth you also suggested that that could double in 2012.
Is that still the right range as we look forward here? And then turning to postpaid ARPU you had a big quarter in terms of smartphones and Internet devices.
Based on what you're seeing now how do you expect those sort of growth trends on the postpaid ARPU side to progress maybe in the first quarter and an outlook for 2012 if possible? First of all on the 2012 outlook so let me start here.
Actually John and I are doing this call remotely from our Innovation Center up here in Waltham which is just a pillar of how we're going to accelerate our growth in the future.
As of many of you visited this facility you saw the innovation of the products and the services which I believe are pioneer in the industry of developing these types of solutions that will increase our revenue from a machine-to-machine perspective and everything that is going to be driven over our LTE network which we believe we are a market leader in.
So if you take the Wireless asset and then the FiOS asset and you look back at to what we said back in January of 2011 when Lowell and I first stood on this stage live we stated that we had a year of execution in front of us and we ha certain targets that we wanted to hit.
And I think that coming out of this year I would say that my position has not changed from where I stood on that stage.
So growth opportunities for the future I believe are there.
As I said in my script remarks I believe that the $2.15 as you look at it for 2012 should be a baseline of $2.20 as you project our growth out.
But I would reiterate that my position from January has not changed as I sit here at the end of this year.
Going on to postpaid ARPU growth I think if you look at this we continue to grow our ARPU growth.
I think that from an overall perspective if you break that down we had our phone ARPU grow to an all-time high of 4%.
Now if you look back that was 3.3% in the second quarter.
That went up to 3.7% in the third and now sitting at 4% overall.
So you can see that the smartphone penetration is accelerating that phone ARPU growth.
As we've talked in the past the Internet category has some dilution in it.
So year-over-year we're down 11% and this is reflected back when we changed our prices back in October perspective.
So on an ARPU perspective of Internet devices down 11% but overall revenue growth from that category as we said we did this to expand the category.
And again this quarter we were up 24% year-over-year in the amount of Internet devices we added and we continue to have our strongest quarter of the year.
So we are executing on the expansion of that category.
So year-over-year the actual revenue is up 10% even though that there is some dilution in the ARPU side.
So I think John to answer your question I'm extremely positive and I stay with what I've said coming out of the third quarter.
We continue to see that we can accrete our ARPU into the future of 2012.
Our next question will come from Jason Armstrong of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a couple of questions just related to Wireline margins.
Fran you talked about continued improvement into 2012 and I'm just wondering if you can help us with the baseline for that comment.
Is that meant to be improvement off the 23.8% exit rate? Or is that a sort of general 2012 versus 2011 comment? And then related to that can you just help us think through what the bigger drivers of improvement would be and if that includes any sort of benefit from the labor negotiations? So the 23.8% coming out of the fourth quarter what I would say is we are very very confident that through all of the things that we were doing on Wireline.
First start off with FiOS and our continued penetration there and we continue to gain market share in every market.
New York continues to be our highest growing market there.
So FiOS is a critical component to the growth of the Wireline on a top line basis.
The other strategy that we've talked about a little bit in the past is the strategy of migrating our copper plant over to the FiOS plant now that we have substantial FiOS passing prems where there is also copper.
So what you're going to going to see this year is a very strategic initiative that we go out and we look at areas where there are chronic copper problems and we start to transform them onto our FiOS network.
And the math would say if there is a chronic problem that we have to visit more than 2x a year the actual financial benefit of us transforming that to FiOS pays for itself within that year.
So we will strategically start to go in there.
What that brings is that brings an enormous expense savings to us from just an overall operational plant perspective.
That's one big component.
The second is obviously with the new organization of Enterprise we believe that with the acquisitions of Terremark and CloudSwitch we continue to grow that top line.
As I said Terremark had an outstanding quarter sequentially up 10%.
That came out of a September all-time high booking.
That will continue into '12 because obviously those bookings don't book all in the same quarter that you sell.
In this business it takes 6 to 12 months to record that revenue.
So I think we're continuing to expand on our cloud services bases which also helps top line revenue for Wireline.
And then you get into the cost initiatives which continue to really be a focus of the whole business unit.
So from a foundational standpoint what I would say is this on a linear basis you will see us increase Wireline margin.
Will we have some setbacks here and there? Obviously in the first quarter we have a lot of tax resets and so forth.
So from that perspective you may see us decline a little bit in the first quarter.
But from that point we will accelerate and continue to overall improve the Wireline margin of the business.
Now on the improvement side I would tell you that we continue from a labor negotiation standpoint we continue to negotiate at the table.
Obviously as I said before we expect that we need to reconfigure the cost structure of our Wireline business.
And that gets to the heart of the healthcare and the pension benefits of the Wireline representative and employees.
So our position has not changed we will continue to negotiate in good faith with the union.
And we'll report out when those negotiations are ended and where we end for that contractual period.
Research Division</strong> Fran that's helpful.
If I could just ask for one clarification just on the prior sort of EPS commentary.
You said nothing's changed from your January position.
I'm just -- the clarification I guess would be the interpretation around the January position because the math of it would tell you 5% to 8% growth and then double that so 10% to 16% growth.
But then the separate interpretation was double the rate of 2011 growth.
So are you saying you're comfortable in doubling the rate of 2011 or you're comfortable with the original 10% to 16%? Yes.
It's more of I'm comfortable with where we said we would be in January of '11.
So my position has not changed.
Our next question will be from Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Very strong results obviously from the iPhone we've seen it across the industry.
You talked about a very strong December.
How should we think about Q1 versus Q4? Is this a product that's going to continue to have legs into the first quarter of the year? Or do you think the first quarter is going to be a more normal quarter as we'd had in say the first 9 months of the year.
I'm including this sort of original iPhone launch? So any trends I know it's early in the year but anything -- how we should be thinking about Wireless margins in Q1? And then staying on wireless you noted that there was some pressure on other service revenues from wholesale roaming I think that you lost your Telematics customer.
Can you just give us a little bit more color about -- around that and what's going to sort of make that better in 2012? So from a Wireless margin perspective here look I think I'd look at it this way.
You talked about one product I talk about a whole portfolio of products.
So if you look at our LTE lineup and just to give you some numbers.
We sold almost 15 million Android-based products and if you do the math for the quarter it's about 10.8 million iPhone products.
So they're both extremely significant to our portfolio.
If you look at LTE we're coming out of the year with almost 18 devices on our network and we will add 6 more in the first quarter of this year leading us to 24.
So I think that the way we look at it is our momentum coming out of the fourth quarter into the first quarter and obviously the first quarter will be more of what we saw in the first 3 quarters because obviously the fourth quarter is always a much higher volume quarter just because of seasonality.
So I would think that Simon on this one what I would say is this: is we have a proven track record in Wireless that we both drive profitability and growth.
And I would expect that in 2012 we will get back to and continue to improve on the Wireless margins.
So if you look at what we did in the third quarter going back we had an iPhone in our portfolio.
We had 3 quarters under our belt with a very real large lineup of 4G LTE devices and we produced the highest margin in Wireless in the history of the Wireless business at 47.8% margins.
So I guess what I would say to you is is that we will strive to continue to improve on the Wireless margins not only on the top line growth perspective but we also in the last 2 years trimmed out almost $3 billion of cost in our Wireless business.
So again I think the focus will be to improve and continue to grow as well improve on the profitability of the Wireless margins.
On the wholesale side there are 2 things happening.
Obviously I reported out that the third quarter that with the sale of the Alltel properties we knew that AT&amp;T would be moving that traffic off of our network which they did.
And then in the reseller base I think it's very important to note that the resellers that we have contracts with are mainly prepaid resellers.
And as I've said in the past as this has declined in the last couple of quarters we have an issue with us which is I will only enter into agreements that are win-win for both.
And right now the market is at a point where I'm not going to compete on the wholesale rates that are in the marketplace.
Although this is an extremely important channel for us and we continue to work with our highest resellers we do have a shift mix in the reseller base.
So we added 371 000 net reseller adds but some of this is a mix change going into lower what I would call live source-type offerings and more universal service fund-type offerings so they carry a lower ARPU than some of our historical prepaid voice resellers would.
But overall the profitability of this is still very substantial.
But I also think it's important to note that as we attack the prepaid market we performed and launched our Unleashed product which coming out of the third quarter I said and was very optimistic that this would be the first quarter that we showed positive net adds in that product space and we actually did.
So from a net perspective we had net adds in prepaid for the first time in at least in the past 2 years.
So we are starting to gain momentum in the prepaid market both through the reseller channel but also through our unleashed channel.
So I think that's what you can continue to see.
So that's for the wholesale roaming side.
Our next question comes from Phil Cusick of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Maybe let's talk about CapEx to start.
You talk about better efficiency in the slide deck.
So with the revenue rising should we think about that as being sort of flat? And then also on the cash outlay side can you talk about cash taxes in 2012? Do you expect that to be sort of in line with the GAAP taxes or maybe a little higher as bonus depreciation starts to slip away? So from a CapEx perspective coming out of the first half of this year I stated that we would have very strong management of our capital expense as we continued to build out the EV-DO network and the capacity required to carry the iPhone on the 3G network from a capacity standpoint.
And I think you've seen that Verizon Wireless has managed this extremely efficiently by moving higher end Internet devices off of the 3G network onto our 4G network.
And just one other note is in the fourth quarter all of our Internet devices sold 100% of those adds were all on the 4G LTE network.
So I think from a CapEx standpoint what I would say is I would not expect any change here from a disciplined capital spending coming out of the back end of 2011 going into '12.
And as I said we will continue to improve our overall CapEx-to-revenue ratio.
So I wouldn't expect you to see anything differently than what we've executed on through 2011.
As far as cash outlay from a cash tax perspective as you know the bonus depreciation is Safe Harbor for 2012.
So there really is no additional cash tax from the bonus depreciation and obviously there's still a lot of things that we're looking at for 2012 from a bonus depreciation discussion down in Washington of an extension of that possible overall corporate tax restructure.
So we look at those things.
But I will tell you that even without that we continue on a very complex organization of taxes for federal purposes continue to strategize and continue to think of how we best utilize our structure to make sure that we have as minimal cash outlay as possible from a cash tax perspective.
The only thing I will highlight from a cash differentiation for 2012 is the pension plan contribution as I talked about.
This will go from $400 million up to $1.26 million for '12 and those contributions will be made more or less smoothly through the year but the first and the third quarter will be around $400 million and then evenly in the second and fourth quarters.
So that really is the only change from what I would expect from a cash outlay.
The only other thing I would say is as our profits continue to increase and we grow bottom line obviously our cash taxes will increase with them.
Our next question will come from Timothy Horan of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> I'm just trying to understand Fran your comments on LTE.
Maybe what you're thinking on market share and on the pricing for LTE.
It's clearly expanded the market but maybe when do you think you'll have the ability to go out and raise prices for LTE.
And I'm not sure if you gave the numbers but what percentage of LTE subscribers are new to Verizon and maybe how does that compare with the iPhone? And lastly it just seems like LTE is just a huge advantage this year.
Do consumers really understand it? Is the advantage really going to be pressed with all the new devices that you have coming out? And just how you're thinking about LTE versus your competition for this year which it seems it was the year you'd be able to capture a lot of the high-end subscribers off your peers? I think that just from an overall market perspective obviously we believe that we are without a doubt the market leader in this innovation pioneering of the technology of LTE.
We have now over 200 million POPs covered which exceeded what our original plans were to achieve 185 million POPs.
And as I said we initially told that we would have 3G and 4G coverage about the same by the end of 2013 and we have now said by mid-2013 we'll have that coverage fulfilled.
So I think from just an overall leadership position and a market position I think we're in great shape.
From a pricing perspective obviously we did the fourth quarter promotion where we said we doubled your allowance coming so that we would have more enticement of people looking at the 4G product.
And as you can see we had our all-time high of 4G devices moved of over 2.4 million devices in the quarter moved from that strategy.
So I think overall pricing what I would say is this I think you'll see more movement on device pricing than you will on overall service pricing.
We'll have to see what the competitive marketplace holds for this.
But I think that from just an overall perspective LTE will be a market leadership for us.
And it's not only around just the retail market but we can't lose sight of the machine-to-machine market.
And obviously I said I was sitting up here in the innovation lab there is a lot of technology and innovation that's going to come out around an automobile around healthcare around energy conservation that really will leap bound anything that we see currently in the marketplace today.
So I think that from a machine-to-machine perspective we continue to see growth in our adds quarter-over-quarter and I see that continuing through 2012 and have a market leadership position there.
Our next question will come from Michael Rollins of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> First could we just get an update on Verizon Wireless debt and cash at the end of the quarter? And then secondly could we just get a deeper dive on what's happening in the improvement in Global Enterprise revenue? What are the products that you find are really helping the Strategic Service revenue growth? And then are you also seeing less headwinds on -- those downward pressures on the legacy side of Enterprise? So from a Verizon Wireless perspective they're going to end the year at $12.3 billion worth of cash on the balance sheet.
They have $11.6 billion of debt so they're actually in a surplus position of $700 million.
For 2012 they have about $1.6 billion of maturities coming that will be paid down.
And as I said within the next week we will have a $10 billion distribution to both of the parents there.
So that's the situation of the cash and the debt on the Wireless side.
From an enterprise perspective I think that it's critical here just overall with this organizational structure that Lowell has set up with the Enterprise Solutions Group.
It is key for us because I said before as we approached our enterprise customers we still had a delineation between a wireless solution and a wireline solution.
And now that the organizations come together with the product rationalization that I talked about it's going to be critical for us to present one solution to our customer end-to-end.
And that really I think will elevate where we are today just from an overall strategic services position.
But to get to your question Mike about exactly what are we selling.
Obviously cloud services the acquisition of Terremark the addition of CloudSwitch the opening of the NAP center in Amsterdam the expansion of our São Paulo Brazil data center which quite honestly up to the acquisition of Terremark Verizon really never played or had a position in Latin America so this is a very high growth area for us.
So I think one absolutely around the cloud but also the convergence of cloud and what that brings to -- from an overall enterprise mobility standpoint and the integration of that cloud and that mobility solution when you look at machine-to-machine and cloud and what that can bring to an enterprise customer in a vertical solution set.
So I think you're going to see more and more around cloud but machine-to-machine.
And then obviously around our IT and advanced communication offerings.
But there also is a differentiation as to what we sell here in North America versus what we sell outside of North America.
And as I said before outside on international again this quarter we grew our international enterprise base by an excess of 9%.
So even with all of the pressures you see around the world we continue to grow.
Now obviously that's because of our low market share in those markets but continued growth for us.
And as we expand internationally I think you'll see more international growth out of us especially around the cloud services.
And as I said the collaboration of Vodafone where it makes sense.
So I think there's a couple of different facets there but I am very -- I have a very good outlook for our Enterprise revenue growth going into '12 even with the continued stabilization of the economy and we have not forecasted much growth there but stabilization would be a key.
And if there is growth there then I think we are even more optimistic on our Enterprise growth.
Our next question will come from Jennifer Fritzsche of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but just on FiOS nice growth there.
I know you said it's going to be a large part of the revenue contribution in Wireline next year or this year rather.
Can you just comment on the pricing you're seeing there and the competitive environment specifically with the cable players? Yes.
I think this is extremely important because as I've said before I know folks are saying that we're overly competitive in pricing.
But what I would say is that the pricing has not actually changed and if anything if you look at it there was a price increase in 2011.
And there will probably be some more price increases in 2012 as we go here.
But I think the differentiation we have here is we have a superior product in FiOS.
It is taking hold in the marketplace.
We are seeing as I said New York is our highest growing market.
This past year we crossed a milestone in Virginia.
We passed 40% penetration on our video services.
You can see we had a good quarter on broadband connection in FiOS.
And I think if you look at the line loss that we set at 7.2% you can see that that strategy of the chronic we started that in the fourth quarter of this year a little bit.
You can see that we are starting to convert copper voice customers onto FiOS.
So continuing to grow and hold on to that declining revenue stream of the legacy products.
So I think overall FiOS will continue to play a very important strategic role in the future of Wireline.
We will compete vigorously with this even with the agreements that we entered into with the cable companies.
If you look at the innovation agreement that innovation will come into FiOS.
And being a superior product already that innovation will add what we can bring to the consumer base from an overall perspective.
So I think overall I'm very optimistic on our FiOS penetration for 2012.
Your last question will come from David Barden of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two if I could.
Just first Fran going back to the Wireless pricing equation.
You guys have had I think a comfort level with your products' status relative to others pricing it at a premium.
We saw a price hike a year ago from Sprint.
We saw an overall kind of refresh of pricing from AT&amp;T recently.
You have talked about the introduction of new family plan prices.
If you could kind of elaborate a little bit on how the pricing lever can be used to kind of grow ARPU in 2012 that would be helpful.
And then second the Wireline revenue side would probably have grown in aggregate if it weren't really for the kind of other segment which kind of fell off in 4Q.
Could you kind of elaborate a little bit on on what's going on there and what the outlook for that is in '12? So David just to follow up you're talking on the wholesale side of Wireline? Research Division</strong> Sorry on the -- there's consumer small business equals mass markets then Strategic Services and other which was 1.94 down from 1.99 in 3Q.
Okay.
All right.
Very good.
Thanks.
So from an overall Wireless pricing equation I think that we are the market leader.
We set our tier pricing structure when we launched our 4G network.
And as I've said the way we positioned our 4G tier pricing was that based on our future view of where usage would go we saw that we had opportunity from a tiered structure and the proliferation of video through the LTE network that we would grow our revenue streams.
And that's what we're seeing just from an overall tiered pricing structure.
As we continue to mature this we have said that we are looking at family data plans if you will and we continue to look at that.
And obviously the play there is is to make sure that it's a win-win for the customer and a win-win for us from an accretion standpoint.
So we continue to work that.
But I think that it's important to note that we are a premium-priced product but we will win in the marketplace just like we did with Unleashed even though that that's priced $10 above the market.
We now see that there are niches of people that want to be on the best network in the world.
So I think that will continue to be our strategy and we'll see here as 2012 goes.
As far as Wireline goes on that I think wholesale we continue to see pressure on the wholesale side of the business just from a legacy voice.
And as we transform this business from a legacy voice business to a data business continue with our fiber to the cell program which we are building out for various wireless carriers.
This continues to be very good business for us but not quite enough to offset the voice loss.
So I think we'll continue to see pressure in there going into 2012.
As far as the other category this is legacy MCI 108 traffic call collect-type traffic which will continue to decline.
It's not something that's strategic for us and we'll just really move that as a cash cow at this point and that will continue to decline.
So overall the focus here is on the consumer Wireline margin the Enterprise portfolio and then also the wholesale portfolio.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Verizon First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr.
John Doherty Senior Vice President Investor Relations for Verizon.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
I'm John Doherty.
With me this morning is our Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo.
Before we get started let me remind you that our earnings release financial and operating information the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website.
This call is being webcast.
If you would like to listen to a replay you can do so from our website.
I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement.
Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties.
Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC which are also available on our website.
This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also on our website.
I'd like to state that all quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted.
Also there were no special items of nonoperational nature included in our reported results for the first quarter of either this year or last.
With that I will now turn the call over to Fran.
Thanks John.
Good morning everyone.
Before we get into the details let me start with a few comments about our first quarter results.
On our last earnings call in January I talked about the confidence we have in our ability to benefit from the market opportunities we see in our key strategic growth areas.
Our focus will continue to be on execution striving to capture incremental revenue and driving operating efficiencies throughout the business.
With the results of our first quarter we continue to execute and deliver on the guidance we gave back in January of 2011 and reaffirmed earlier this year.
We remain as confident in the direction of our business now as we were then and we continue to deliver strong results.
Earnings per share were $0.59 up 15.7% over first quarter last year.
In Wireless we saw a sharp acceleration of growth in retail service revenue and postpaid ARPU driven by increased smartphone penetration and higher data device adoption resulting in increased usage.
This top line growth combined with effective cost management resulted in a very strong service EBITDA margin.
Consumer retail revenue growth also continues to improve driven by another solid quarter of FiOS performance.
Our broadband net adds were the highest we have seen in nearly 3 years.
We had an extremely strong quarter of cash generation.
Free cash flow of $2.4 billion is more than 3.5x the amount generated a year ago.
The first quarter is normally the lowest quarter of the year so we expect to see increasing free cash flow levels going forward.
Capital expenditures in the first quarter were down more than 18% as our disciplined approach is resulting in capital efficiency gains and an improving return on investment profile for the entire business.
Let's begin our review with a look at consolidated results on Slide 4.
Our consolidated results show strong growth this quarter.
On the top line our growth trends continue to be very positive coming from all strategic areas most notably Wireless services.
This quarter overall revenue growth far outweighed the increase in operating expenses resulting in double-digit operating income growth of 16.7%.
Consolidated EBITDA grew to $9.2 billion and our margin expanded to 32.7% up 130 basis points year-over-year and 210 basis points sequentially.
Let's turn now to cash flow and capital spending on Slide 5.
Our free cash flow this quarter increased $1.7 billion driven by reduced levels of capital spending and an 18% increase in cash from operations.
Capital expenditures totaled $3.6 billion in the quarter a decrease of about $800 million compared to last year.
Our overall capital efficiency continued to show steady improvement.
We expect our annual CapEx-to-revenue ratio to decline for the full year based on improving revenue trends and disciplined capital spending.
In Wireless capital spending in the quarter was $1.9 billion which was lower by $850 million or 31% from the first quarter last year.
You will recall that at this time last year we were spending more to meet 3G capacity requirements in connection with our initial launch of the iPhone.
As we move through the year you will see a continued focus on migrating traffic from 3G to 4G LTE which will drive additional improvements in our capital and operating efficiency.
We will also continue to expand our 4G LTE network coverage which is already the largest in the nation.
In Wireline capital spending was $1.5 billion this quarter about 5% higher than the first quarter last year.
This increase is due to timing strategic spending in enterprise and some copper-to-fiber migration within our residential customer base.
Our balance sheet remains very strong.
You will recall that the $10 billion cash distribution from Verizon Wireless was paid this quarter.
We used our proportionate share and part to pay down commercial paper and to redeem a maturing bond.
As a result total debt declined by $3.6 billion since the end of last year.
Our net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio was about 1.3x at the end of the quarter.
Let's now move into a review of the segments starting with Wireless on Slide 6.
Our Wireless business had an impressive quarter and a strong start to the year posting accelerated growth in service revenue and our highest retail postpaid ARPU accretion in 3 years.
Total Wireless revenues of $18.3 billion grew 8.2% and now represent about 65% of Verizon's consolidated revenue.
Retail service revenue growth accelerated to 8.9% 110 basis point increase in growth from the fourth quarter and the highest growth rate we've seen since early 2009.
We are seeing strong revenue growth from multiple postpaid sources: Smartphones tablets and Internet devices.
And retail prepaid revenue grew strongly again this quarter up 17.3%.
Total service revenue grew 7.7% this quarter 130 basis points higher than the growth rate in the fourth quarter.
Total data revenue of $6.6 billion grew 21.1%.
Data now represents nearly 43% of total service revenue.
Data revenue growth continues to be driven by web and email services which increased to $4.3 billion in the quarter up nearly 36%.
Let's take a closer look at our connections growth on Slide 7.
We continue to gain share in the retail postpaid market driven by sustained demand for our 3G and 4G LTE handsets tablets and Internet devices.
With the unmatched service quality of the nation's largest and most reliable wireless network.
We have an industry-leading $93 million retail connections 88 million postpaid and 5 million prepaid.
During the quarter we added 734 000 new retail net connections 501 000 postpaid and 233 000 prepaid.
Before we discuss postpaid in more detail I'd point out that within the prepaid net adds 138 000 were tablets.
About 60% of the prepaid tablets this quarter were 4G LTE.
Within the retail postpaid category gross additions were just over 3 million down about 12% from a year ago.
We believe this decline is both seasonal and a function of the timing of the new device launches last year.
Our porting ratios with all carriers are favorable and our postpaid churn metrics remain excellent.
Although the first to report we are confident that our 501 000 postpaid net adds is a strong result.
Postpaid device sales both gross adds and upgrades totaled about 10 million this quarter with 8% of our postpaid base upgrading devices.
In addition to smartphones we are also having great success in the Internet device category which includes tablets.
This quarter we sold 765 000 4G LTE Internet devices which is more than last quarter.
We are the market leader in this space as mobile hotspots or Jetpacks USB modems and tablets represent 8% of our retail postpaid connections.
I would also point out that 62% of our active tablet base is postpaid.
Next let's turn to Slide 8 and take a look at our smartphone and retail postpaid ARPU metrics.
We had another strong quarter of smartphone sales increasing the penetration of our retail postpaid phone base to 47%.
72% of all retail postpaid phones sold this quarter were smartphones.
We sold 3.2 million Apple iPhones and sold 2.1 million 4G LTE smartphones this quarter.
We sold 500 000 or 30% more 4G LTE smartphones this quarter than we did in the fourth quarter.
Consistent with prior quarters about 20% of our smartphone sales are gross adds or new to Verizon and the rest are upgrades from our existing customer base.
Within these upgrades 42% are customers buying a smartphone for the first time representing incremental recurring data revenue.
This is a significant point of differentiation and a strength for us.
Retail postpaid ARPU was $55.43 this quarter up 3.6%.
This is a big acceleration in accretion over what we experienced in 2011.
Growth in retail postpaid phone ARPU accelerated to 4.9% this quarter and now exceeds $57.
Postpaid Internet device ARPU was about $48 this quarter a decline of 8.7% from last year but an improvement from an 11% year-over-year decline last quarter.
Although postpaid ARPU for Internet devices is less than for phones we are seeing double-digit year-over-year revenue growth driven by increased unit sales.
We already have a majority share in this important category and we continue to expand the market for devices which enable higher usage.
We also expect more network efficiency as an increasing percentage of data traffic moves to our 4G LTE network.
Let's turn to Slide 9 as I'd like to spend a few more minutes talking about the strength of our 4G LTE leadership.
We are by far the market leader in 4G LTE which is now available in 230 markets and more than 200 million POPs covering over 2/3 of the country.
Throughout the year we will continue expanding our 4G LTE network with the goal of having a nationwide footprint similar to our 3G network by mid-2013.
We are seeing increasing customer awareness of the capabilities of 4G LTE and a growing recognition of the superior performance of smartphones tablets and Internet devices on the Verizon 4G LTE network.
Third-party comparisons of our 4G LTE network performance compared with others generally ranks us highest in terms of consistency of access performance and speed with better average download speeds and significantly higher average upload speed.
In addition to our network deployment and coverage advantage sales of 4G LTE products are clearly gaining momentum.
In the first quarter we sold 2.9 million postpaid smartphones and Internet devices a 22% increase over the fourth quarter.
The vast majority of devices we have for sale are 4G LTE.
We now have a total of 8 million 4G LTE customer connections representing 9% of our postpaid base.
Of note about 2/3 of these are smartphones.
We remain very pleased by our 4G LTE progress.
The Verizon 4G LTE network has become the destination of choice for consumer and enterprise customers which is a very positive indicator for us looking forward.
Let's conclude our Wireless segment review with a discussion about profitability on Slide 10.
In the first quarter we generated $7.1 billion of EBITDA which is an increase of 14.2% and expanded our service EBITDA margin by 410 basis points sequentially to 46.3%.
Our margin performance is once again a testament to our ability to execute very well on our strategy of balancing growth and profitability.
The combination of accelerating service revenue and ARPU growth and intense focus on cost controls and consistently excellent churn metrics are contributing to our industry-leading margin performance.
Going forward we will continue to look at opportunities to mitigate the cost of higher equipment subsidies and commissions.
We have identified $2 billion of cost saving opportunities for this year and we are on track to capture these savings.
We also announced the $30 upgrade fee which will go into effect next week.
Let's move to our Wireline segment next on Slide 11.
Total Wireline revenue declined $202 million or 2% in the first quarter.
About 60% of this decline is a result of targeted product rationalization actions we have taken to improve the quality of our revenue mix.
Within wholesale I'm referring to our continued exit from unprofitable international wholesale routes and contracts.
In Enterprise it is our deemphasis on selling of drop ship hardware or CPE.
And the other revenue line item the majority of the 82 million decline this quarter was from nonstrategic products which include the former MCI mass markets business long-distance local wholesale and calling cards public pay phones and directory assistance.
We are exiting the calling card and public payphone businesses entirely.
While the Wireline revenue decline was accentuated by these targeted actions this quarter growth in the strategic areas continues to mitigate the more secular and cyclical declines in other parts of the business.
As we have stated we are taking a hard look at all of our product lines and rationalizing those that are not meeting our strategic and financial requirements.
For example going forward we will no longer be selling high-speed Internet or DSL over copper in areas where FiOS is available.
From a profitability perspective first quarter EBITDA declined by $148 million year-over-year with 100 basis point decline in the EBITDA margin to 22.6%.
The decline is due to several factors revenue declines in less-strategic products and first quarter cost pressures like higher OPEB accruals increased active benefit cost and escalators in certain content contracts.
We have targeted price actions planned to help offset certain cost increases which will contribute to our overall profitability goals this year.
I remain confident that we will achieve EBITDA margin improvement for the full year and we continue to be very focused on improving the long-term profitability of the Wireline business.
Let's take a closer look at our revenue performance starting with mass markets on Slide 12.
As a result of the scale of FiOS and increased penetration consumer ARPU has continued to steadily increase and is now over $97 up 8%.
In addition our residential connections trends continued to improve.
We lost 205 000 retail residential connections in the quarter representing a 6.8% decline year-over-year compared with a loss of 289 000 or 8.6% at this time last year.
In the first quarter we delivered strong broadband growth gaining a total of 104 000 net subscribers.
With a 193 000 FiOS Internet additions we passed the 5 million FiOS subscriber mark and increased our penetration to 36.4%.
More than half our FiOS customers already use 20 megabit speed or higher.
And with more devices like tablets game consoles and smart TVs connecting to the Internet at home demand for higher broadband speeds is on the rise.
Later this year we plan to introduce a series of higher speed packages that will further differentiate FiOS as the nation's fastest Internet service and allow us to continue to monetize our investment in the FiOS platform.
In FiOS Video we added 180 000 subscribers in the quarter bringing our total to 4.4 million and increasing our penetration to 32.3%.
Within our FiOS subscriber base about 68% are triple-play and our FiOS ARPU now stands that more than $148 per month.
Our focus continues to be on increasing FiOS penetration realizing additional operating and capital efficiencies and expanding margins.
Let's move next to our business markets starting with Global Enterprise.
Strategic Services continue to drive the overall positive growth in Global Enterprise revenue.
We continue to post double-digit growth in application services like managed network data center security cloud and IT infrastructure.
Within the IP layer private IP and Ethernet services are contributing to the growth.
In the first quarter these services totaled $2 billion up 11.6% representing just over half of Global Enterprise revenue.
As we've seen for the last several quarters the growth in Strategic Services did outpace the decline in core Enterprise Services but not to the same degree.
As you might expect we are experiencing some short-term revenue pressure from Europe and foreign-currency.
In addition our deemphasis on sale of hardware was worth about $43 million on a year-over-year basis.
Growth in services revenue was 2.3%.
Looking ahead we do expect our enterprise business to contribute more to the overall Wireline revenue growth and profitability.
Our strategic repositioning of Verizon Enterprise Solutions has better aligned our strength in high-growth markets like cloud computing machine-to-machine and advanced communications.
Our acquisitions of best-in-class assets like Cybertrust Terremark and CloudSwitch combined with our industry-leading 4G LTE and global IP networks gives us a unique platform of assets to provide comprehensive integrated solutions to enterprise organizations.
In Global Wholesale revenues in the first quarter declined $181 million or 8.9% due primarily to declines in voice and local services.
As I said we continue to take targeted actions to exit unprofitable routes and contracts to improve the quality of our revenue mix during this period of secular decline and lower volumes.
Partly offsetting these declines were continued growth in certain data services most notably fiber-based Ethernet.
Let's move now to our summary slide.
Overall we had a solid start to the year and we remain confident in our ability to take advantage of the market opportunities we see and our key strategic growth areas.
We are on track with our plans and we expect to continue to deliver strong results going forward.
Our focus will continue to be on execution striving to capture incremental revenue and driving operating efficiencies throughout the business.
Our success in stimulating top line growth and capturing cost savings will enable us to mitigate certain secular declines and cost pressures.
In terms of recent news yesterday we announced plans to conduct an open sale process for all of our 700 megahertz A and B Spectrum licenses in order to rationalize our Spectrum holdings.
We acquired these licenses as part of the FCC auction 73 in 2008.
The sale of this license is contingent upon the close of the purchase of the AWS licenses from SpectrumCo Cox and Leap Wireless.
These transactions are at varying stages of review by the FCC and the Department of Justice and are expected to close by mid-summer.
In closing I'd reemphasize that we are well-positioned to capitalize on the investments we've made further improving investment returns and creating significant shareholder value in the years to come.
With that I will now turn the call back to John so we can get to your questions.
Thanks Fran.
Brad let's open it up for questions please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jason Armstrong of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Fran a couple of questions.
First on the Wireless ARPU very healthy uptick in the retail postpaid growth rate.
Can you help us think through prospects for further improvement in the rate of growth from here? And then second question just on Wireline margins I think the reset in the first quarter was a bit larger than most of us had initially expected sort of going into the process.
You talked about confidence in improvement from here.
Just wondering how should we think about the pacing of this through the year? Would you expect it to be fairly linear and show up in the second quarter results or is this more back-end loaded maybe contingent on a union contract? So let's start.
These are 2 actually big questions and that probably will result in larger answers than you would expect.
But on Wireless ARPU let's start out with the fact that I think as we started out in 2011 we said that we had a path to accelerate the growth of our revenue.
We came out of the fourth quarter I reiterated my confidence on that projection.
And as I sit here today and I will continue to reiterate that we are confident that we will continue to accelerate our growth in this category.
And it's going to come from many many different areas.
So you have to keep in mind number one our smartphone penetration is at 47% which means that there are 53% of our phone customers that are still on a basic phone.
So we still have a lot of roadway here from a basic to smart upgrade.
And as you know 42% of our customers this quarter went from a basic phone into a smartphone category so that is accelerating the growth.
In addition as you heard on the script our Internet device category is starting to stabilize a bit and we expect that to continue to go throughout the quarter on an ARPU basis.
As last year we reset prices we expanded the category so the growth of that category is expanding for us but we knew we had some short-term ARPU pressure by the price resets that we launched into the marketplace.
But that set us up for our 4G LTE launches.
And as you saw we had a stellar performance on a number of devices that we moved on our 4G network this quarter.
So that's a couple of things.
I probably could go into a lot more detail around our data sharing plans our commercial launch of Fusion and if we want to get to more discussion on that we can.
But we are very very confident that we are on a path to continue to accelerate the growth of our ARPU.
On Wireline margins just a couple of things here too to talk to.
So number one we did have the FiOS-to-copper migration which impacted our short-term results but we've talked that this is a strategy that we're deploying.
It is better for us long-term to get most of these customers off of our copper network to our FiOS network.
As you saw that we are -- stopped selling our naked DSL in FiOS covered area and we started to convert a number of customers in this quarter over to our FiOS network from a voice perspective.
Now a couple of things here that this will launch number one we will see a long-term benefit in our repairs and maintenance decrease over time.
We will also get the upsell capability to start selling these voice customers on better speeds of FiOS and better experience.
And also then into the linear TV product that we have to offer.
And what we're seeing is the minimum number that we converted last year during our trials we're starting to see a 30% sale upgrade on those customers but it does take us 3 to 6 months to convince those customers to upgrade.
So this is a longer-term type strategy.
In addition going into the future you're going to see you may have already saw that we are starting to do some price-ups in strategic areas.
We've also started that in April but over the next 2 quarters we're going to have several priced-ups in our FiOS packages.
In addition we're going to rebundle certain of our packages to better bundle our content in order to make it more profitable based on the Tier that you picked for us.
The other thing is that there's other revenue streams coming from down the pipe like home monitoring control that will contribute to the overall ARPU of our FiOS platform.
We also have a very disciplined cost structure in place.
As you see that we declined our SG&amp;A expense year-over-year.
In April we also had another ISP [ph] to our represented employees which we had a number of people take.
So we've already taken off 1 100 people from payroll since the quarter has closed.
We are taking other measures around the consolidation of our back office operations as I've talked to in the past.
You see that we are exiting some of our unprofitable or low-margin businesses which will help us in the future.
And then of course the union contract and we can talk more about that.
But obviously the business needs a cost restructure and that's what that is about.
So I'll stop there I'm sure we'll have some more questions here.
Research Division</strong> Fran is there any way you could quantify the copper-to-fiber sort of incremental cost in the quarter? At this point we're not going to disclose that.
It did result in some incremental capital for prepositioning and then it did the result in some expense for us.
But actually for this quarter it was not a big component of the quarter.
Our next question comes from John Hodulik of UBS.
Research Division</strong> First just 2 quick ones.
First on I guess a follow-up on the Wireless side.
You saw 260 basis points of annual margin improvement in the first quarter.
And now talking about accelerating ARPU growth and like you said the $30 that gets started gets tagged onto upgrades in May.
I mean is that a decent number or I guess why shouldn't we expect that kind of year-over-year increase in margins or maybe even better as the $30 starts to flow-through? And then second of all maybe on use of cash could you remind us what your target leverage ratio is.
We're at the I guess 1.3 now given that debt pay down.
As we look out to next year and we're modeling another dividend obviously you don't want to chat and you don't want to sort of look that far out but I'm just trying to get a sense for the use of cash as we go forward? Okay so on the Wireless margin expansion.
I guess there's a couple of things here that are important.
Number one is as you know we have been on a 2-year track here to reduce expenses in our Wireless unit.
And over the last 2 years we've taken out about $3 billion of expense.
This year we have another target of $2 billion.
So I know that everyone is focused in on the subsidy model but as I've said that's just one line item in our P&amp;L and it takes managing the entire business to be an efficient business.
And I think that Wireless has done a really excellent job on reduction of cost and creating more efficiency within the model.
And that's what's driving the margins beside the ARPU increases that you see in the revenue growth.
And as we stated last year coming into this year that our goal was to get back to our third quarter level of last year's margin and then continue to grow from there and we're putting in all those actions to do that.
As far as the $30 upgrade fee I'll remind everyone that we started back in 2010 on a strategy to start to take out some of the lucrative promotions we had around upgrades by deleting the New Every Two program limiting the amount of early upgrades that we allowed.
And now the implementation of the $30 upgrade fee which we were the last carrier to implement.
But it's important too for the overall profitability of the business and the experience that we expect to have within this business.
So I think there's a number of actions that Wireless is taking to continue to focus on the ARPU expansion and then the margin expansion because we like to do both at Verizon we grow and we expand our margins.
And then as far as the use of cash here on a targeted net debt-to-EBITDA.
It's more important that I think we're comfortable with our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio.
This will improve over time as we continue to delever in certain areas where we think it's reasonable to do.
You saw us take the proceeds of the Wireless dividend this quarter to pay down some debt that was maturing that was high-interest debt that quite honestly didn't make sense at this time to refinance in any perspective.
So we will continue to manage our cash.
Important our dividend policy is extremely important to us and Lowell and I have said very strongly that we will continue to the policy of our dividend.
So I'll stop there and we'll go on to the next question.
Our next question comes from Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the Wireline margins and I think there was a question about the union contract.
Could you give us an update on where you stand and the ability -- if it's just been moved forward and get progress some agreement over the coming quarters? And then on Wireless adds you had I'm sure the best in the industry but overall we expect the industry to be flat to down on postpaid.
Do you sense this is just a lull post the iPhone 4S launch last quarter? Did to see a sort of a pickup sequentially through the quarter any thoughts about how the rest of the quarters pan out in terms of Wireless versus Q1? So first let's talk about the union contract.
So look I think it's safe to say that as we entered into this new negotiation we knew that this is going to be an extremely difficult negotiation.
We have said very strongly that we need cost structure within the Wireline business.
Obviously if you look at the profitability of this business over the last 5 years it has decreased.
And this cost structure is not palatable going forward.
So we need to some concessions we need health care contributions.
We need some pension revisions.
And look were not asking for things that have not already been given to other companies.
These are not new issues.
They've already been given to some of our peer companies.
So we are standing strong.
We need this cost restructure in order to build on the profitability of our Wireline unit.
The other thing is look we've invested over $24 billion into this unit on the FiOS platform.
And in order for us to be competitive with our competitors of cable who don't have these very lucrative benefits and average salaries of $90 000 with an incremental $50 000 of healthcare and pension on top of that we need some cost restructure here.
So look this is a hard negotiation.
It took one of our peer companies over 500 days to get to where they were 3 years ago in some of these breakthrough issues.
So we continue to negotiate.
We continue to put proposals on and we'll see where we go but we knew this was going to be a long haul.
And with my comment of improvement of Wireline margins it's all built in those comments.
On the Wireless adds I think we're extremely pleased with the growth of our Wireless business on an add basis.
If you look at though there's going to be other categories that drive the growth of Wireless in the future as I said we will be launching our data share plan in mid-summer this year.
We believe that that plan the way we have it designed will enable our customers to easily connect other devices to that plan.
And I think that as we do more connections you notice that we did not disclose total connections.
As I've said that machine-to-machine is becoming a more complicated device and connection of the way the plans are built so it's not important anymore of total connections.
It's more important of our revenue increase based on the customers that we're growing.
I think that if you look at our Fusion product that we just launched in certain states our trials are going very well.
The customers' experience is extremely strong.
We had a target of 10 million homes that we're going to launch to in May of this year when we commercially launch.
And that we'll build to as we build out the 4G LTE footprint to a target of 34 million homes.
We believe that's a growth engine for us in the future.
Then we have tablets we have prepaid.
This is the second quarter in a row where we've grown our prepaid base with our Unleashed product.
And in the next week or so you're going to see us add in a smartphone to our prepaid product on an $80 price point with 1 gigabit of data.
So there's a number of actions that we're taking.
If you think about the third ecosystem and then also the cable partnership that we also just launched some new markets with Time Warner cable this past quarter Kansas Ohio and Carolinas.
So we've continue to expand.
I think we have a growth rate test to increase adds on a full year basis here and we're on that track.
Our next question comes from Phil Cusick of JPMC.
Research Division</strong> So 2 questions we'll see how I do.
So first on the prepaid tablets were up little bit and I wonder if you saw a little bit of a drag even though from the timing of the iPad launch and if things have got a little better since things -- since that's come through? And then second we've been getting a lot of questions about your ability to control iPhone subsidies.
And maybe you can help us out a little bit.
It seems like the way you control costs some [indiscernible] raising upgrade rates some sort of pushing back on timing rather than cutting down on the actual subsidy of that device is there a level of control you have on those subsidies over time or are you pretty much stuck with the way things are priced today? So first on prepaid tablets.
It's a great point.
We did see a slowdown in the beginning of the quarter on the anticipation of the iPad 4G LTE device coming to market.
And as you know that was only about 2 2.5 weeks of product in the marketplace.
And we saw significant volume previous to any volume that we had previously seen on tablet sales.
So I think that going to the second quarter that volume will continue.
So yes there was a little bit of a downward demand in the beginning waiting for the new iPad to come out.
So again I think we're off to a good start.
We sold 390 000 tablets in the quarter.
And as we said bulk of them were -- 60% were increase in tablet sales year-over-year.
So I think going into the future tablets will continue to be a very strategic segment of our business.
On the Apple iPhone look I think as I've said before we look at every individual handset we have a broad portfolio.
We manage it by handset-by-handset and manage our subsidy and again that's just one aspect of our P&amp;L.
And this is just a nature of this business that's grown from the beginning of the industry that we subsidize handsets.
I do think though it is important that there is a third ecosystem that's brought into the mix here.
And we are fully supportive of that with Microsoft and as we said that we created the Android platform from beginning.
And it is an incredible platform today that we helped to create.
And we're looking to do the same thing with a third ecosystem.
So that's how I think that we plan to go into the future here.
Our next question comes from Michael Rollins of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Real quick.
Could we just get an update on the net debt at the Wireless level? And then taking a step back could we get an update on what's happening in enterprise with the VDMS strategy that you're trying to rollout and then anything else in terms of demand that you're seeing on video and how that's helping your enterprise business? So on the net debt for wireless we have gross debt of $10.9 billion cash on hand of $4.4 billion so net debt is $6.4 billion.
On the enterprise VDMS think we're making great progress with the new organization and the umbrella organization that John Stratton has over both Wireless and Wireline from an enterprise perspective.
We have gone very deep into verticals.
We see that there is and if you paid attention to Lowell's remarks here recently at the healthcare forum we see a lot of healthcare opportunity and are engaging in a lot of partnerships to extend what we think is a really good product set on the reduction of overall healthcare costs in the nation but also to deliver some really neat innovation-type ideas into the future of healthcare and how we manage that from an enterprise perspective.
As far as overall growth of the segment we did see a decline this quarter in Europe.
It was not expected.
Just to give you some baseline here last year our European market was growing on average about 13%.
It contributes about $450 million of revenue per quarter.
We saw that drop to flat this quarter.
So there was a drastic pullback in our European market.
We don't believe that that is long-term.
We think that that's more of a short-term issue.
We already started to see some increased bookings here exiting the first quarter but that probably won't turn into revenue for 3 to 6 months.
As you know this industry is a longer-term type recording from the time that you get an order.
But I think this is a short-term issue for us but it did put an impact on our overall growth.
Now having said that our cloud services and our strategic nature of our security are those portfolios are growing well.
Our overall cloud portfolio grew by 17% quarter-over-quarter year-over-year.
So I think we're making progress in the area that we want to make progress in but again the portfolio rationalization is also creating a drag here.
And as we continue down that path we will lose some revenue in those less-profitable platforms that we really want to discontinue investing in but it's for the betterment of us and betterment of our customers to move them to a more highly innovative platform.
And then the last thing of course is the development and launch that we did last June of our VDMS platform and we will be launching our next phase of that come this June and we expect to see some growth revenue acceleration from that platform as we go here.
So there's a number of things that John is implementing that I think will contribute.
As I said in my script here the -- contribute of the future growth of the overall Wireline revenue top line and margin growth.
Research Division</strong> And Fran if I could follow up one more thing what pushed Verizon Wireless over the edge to put the Spectrum up for sale? Can you just address a little bit of the background to yesterday's announcement? Yes so thanks for that question and I think this is an example where people write articles where they don't have facts.
So let's talk about the facts.
So number one I think Verizon Wireless has shown over time that they are very very good stewards of Spectrum and efficient Spectrum.
And we are responsible and efficient owners of the Spectrum.
And as a company policy we will not hoard the Spectrum.
Now when we bought this back in 2008 obviously we did not have the foresight to know that we would have an opportunity to acquire AWS Spectrum from the cable company.
And if you look at our Spectrum holdings we purchased the 700 megahertz which is an extremely efficient and this is where we built our LTE platform on.
And then we had the AWS spectrum in the East which was very efficient from an overbuild perspective on capacity of our LTE platform.
And now with the deal that we have with SpectrumCo we believe that is the most efficient for us to utilize and build out our LTE platform.
So hence the lower 700 megahertz A and B does not fit as nicely into our Spectrum holdings as it may for others.
But we think it's the prudent thing to do to sell these licenses off to the rest of the industry for the benefit of their customers and to enhance their ability to build out 4G LTE.
So I think we would say that we're being good stewards.
This has nothing to do -- we did not just wake up yesterday and decide we were going to sell Spectrum because we ran into a roadblock at the FCC.
That is continuing.
We have facts that say the 180-day clock is going and that we are still very confident that we will get approval for the AWS acquisition from SpectrumCo.
But just the 2 other points I want to make here is number one this is contingent on us getting the a getting the AWS Spectrum approved because obviously we would need this spectrum if that's not approved and again we think it's the right thing for the FCC and maybe a standard for them to use in the future of how Spectrum should be allocated out and sold and efficient ownership and protocols.
The other thing is I think there were some articles written that this is going to be a fire sale.
This is nothing near a fire sale.
We bought this Spectrum back in 2008.
We've had carrying costs and we will be prudent to our shareholders to make sure we get the return our investments.
We know what the value of this Spectrum is in the free market and obviously we're going to an auction to allow many different parties to participate through a third-party auctioneer.
And look if we don't get the price that we think is a fair price then we won't go through with the sale and that's at our discretion.
So I think there's some important facts and I'll stop there.
Our next question comes from David Barden of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe a couple of follow-ups.
Just first Fran on the AWS Spectrum approvals is there a level of divestitures that the FCC could come up with that will be a deal breaker from your perspective or is just getting kind of any magnitude of an AWS deal done sufficient? And then with respect to the Wireless margin you're targeting $2 billion of cost cuts I guess for the year.
If you could kind of share with us where we wound up after the end of first quarter on that? And then the last one if I could is just could you kind of give us an update on what if any results have you been able to generate from your partnership with the cable companies on the selling of a joint product that have been material to the business? So first on the AWS approval I think that we're exactly where we expected to be.
The conversations are going exactly the way we thought.
I'm not going to speculate on caps or what we would do what we wouldn't do and I think what I'll say is look we're exactly where we thought we would be and I think we'll close this transaction by mid-summer.
On the $2 billion Wireless cost cutting ideas I think we've shown that we are very good executioners on the cost-cutting routines of $3 billion in the last 2 years.
The $2 billion is a combination of a variety of things.
You saw the announcement of some call center rationalization.
Obviously part of this $2 billion is to work on the reduction of our subsidies and you saw -- you're already seeing some of these plans go into action with our upgrade feesand some other things.
So there's a wide wrath of cost-cutting initiatives that Dan me and his team are executing on.
And right now coming out of the first quarter we're actually right on track where we expected to be.
And then lastly on the cable companies obviously we're still in a trial mode.
We're working out the kinks.
We launched a couple markets here with Comcast up in Seattle and Portland.
We just launched a couple of new markets with Time Warner cable.
So I think it's too early to talk about this one.
The agreements are still in front of the DOJ and the FCC and we continue to cooperate with them.
And we'll wait till the transaction closes and get up full to speed and then we'll talk about that.
Our next question will come from Tim Horan of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Fran 2 questions if you don't mind.
On the enterprise business on the core business could you just give us maybe a little color around -- it sounds like you're seeing volumes are fine and you haven't really seen a pickup in competition.
But obviously these peripheral legacy products are in decline.
I just want to make sure that's kind of what you're saying.
And maybe did you see any seasonality in core enterprise that you see maybe lower sales in December and that's kind of picked up.
I know you kind of talked about Europe a little bit but maybe just here in the U.S.? And then I just have a CapEx follow-up.
As far as enterprise goes look I think the enterprise business is in our Strategic Services area.
It's steady as she goes.
We're growing that portfolio.
And look any time ago through a massive restructure like John has implemented at VES with going into more of a vertical-type segment you're going to have a little disruption within your frontline sales force and I think we saw that.
But that was like a 60- to 90-day interruption and I think we're getting back on pace and we expect enterprise to start to get back on their feet here going into the second quarter and through the year.
And as far as the core side goes the core is just steady as she goes.
It's a declining business.
People are moving away from the legacy voice and long distance and moving more into the IP technology.
And this is where we have several of our customer [indiscernible] still on the legacy core platforms that we need to move off of so that we can stop investing in those platforms and get them to something that is more innovative and more efficient for them as a company as well.
And I don't think they're surprised with the conversations that we're having.
So I think as we go here this will be a steady course.
And as we said before our goal is to be a gross national product-type growth here GDP plus type organization.
So I think that's we're striving for and that's what's John is striving for as well.
Research Division</strong> So just on enterprises sounds like you're really trying to accelerate the conversion over.
How much longer do you think that would take? Well I think this is going to be some of these legacy-type platforms.
This could be a 2-year transition.
Research Division</strong> And then CapEx is flattish a good number for the full year versus last year? I know even with a decline it was a percentage of revenue at a fairly healthy pace given what we're seeing in Wireless.
Yes I've said that the guidance would be -- we wouldn't give specific guidance but flat is a good guidance.
Our next question will come from Mike McCormack of Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> Fran could you just make a comment on the ARPU side? Obviously pretty strong performance on the wireless ARPU.
But it looked like voice the headwind on voice sort of became less of a headwind this quarter.
Pretty good improvement on the rate of decline.
Is what you're seeing there whether it's people just not pricing that down anymore or what behaviors the consumers are showing you? And then just a couple on the housecleaning side on Wireless D&amp;A looks like it was down sequentially.
I was just wondering if there was a change in assumption there? And then on the Wireline margin commentary the better year-over-year I'm assuming that's on a reported basis.
Yes so Mike just a couple of things here on the voice and text messaging.
Our messaging revenue actually grew 4% again year-over-year.
So we're not seeing what others in the international market have seen.
And again it all comes down to the way you package the bundle and we still have a majority of our customers taking a bundled package of voice and text along with their data plan.
So we're starting to see that -- that starting to flatten out perspective.
But look I mean we keep our eye on this and with 4G LTE and VoLTE coming at the end of this year into next year there will be additional opportunities to convert more revenue from our voice products as we launch into more if you will IP-type videoconferencing and so forth.
As far as Verizon Wireless depreciation and amortization look at the beginning of every year we have a policy that we look at our asset base and reevaluate all of our estimated lives on all of our asset bases.
And sometimes make decisions to accelerate and sometimes we make decisions to reevaluate the lives that we have in a certain asset.
And we've done that this year as we do every year and in Verizon Wireless there was a life extension on our entire EV-DO platform.
But this is nothing unusual that we normally don't do.
And so that's the answer to that one.
Your last question will come from Brett Feldman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> And just to come back to the CapEx statement.
In order for your CapEx to be flattish over the course of the year it would seem like the spending would have to pick up a little bit in Wireless.
First of all is that the correct conclusion? And if so what would be behind that? And then the second question is to clarify a statement you made about margins.
Fran you mentioned sort of getting to the third quarter of last year Wireless EBITDA margin that was just inside 48%.
Is that a point you think you can achieve once again at some quarter during the year or is that actually a full year target for Verizon Wireless? I mean as far as -- these are both guidance-type questions so I'm not going to get into the specifics of them.
So look we said we'll be flat at CapEx and let's leave it at that.
I'm not going to get to the individual components or quarter-by-quarter.
And then on the Wireless margins I've said that look our goal is to get back to our 3Q margin and we'll strive to get there.
That concludes our call.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conferencing Services.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Verizon Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be opened for questions following the presentation.
(Operator Instructions) Today’s conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr.
John Doherty Senior Vice President Investor Relations for Verizon.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
I'm John Doherty.
With me this morning is our Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo.
Before we get started let me remind you that our earnings release financial and operating information the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website.
This call is being webcast.
If you would like to listen to a replay you can do so from our website.
I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement.
Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties.
Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon’s filings with the SEC which are also available on our website.
This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also available on the website.
Before Fran takes you through the details of our results I’d like to cover a few items upfront.
Second quarter earnings per share were $0.64 up 12.3% from last year and $0.05 higher than the first quarter.
To the first half of the year EPS of $1.23 was 15% higher than a year ago.
There were no special items of non-operational nature included in our reported results for the second quarter or the first half of this year or the comparable periods in 2011.
In terms of activity below the operating income line you will note that equity in earnings from unconsolidated businesses which is primarily our minority interest in Vodafone Italy declined by about $50 million this quarter due to the continued economic pressures in Europe.
This represents about $0.02 in earnings per share.
other than that there is nothing unusual in terms of other income interest or income taxes.
I'd also point out that the quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.
with that I'll turn the call over to Fran.
Thanks John.
Good morning everyone.
Before we get into the details let me start with a few comments about our financial results.
We continue to execute well across the entire business.
Solid top line performance combined with a strong focus on profitability and cost management has resulted in double-digit growth in operating income and earnings per share for the last two quarters.
This strong operating performance together with our disciplined capital spending is driving significant increases in free cash flow resulting in capital efficiency gains and an improving return on investment profile for the entire business.
Through the first half of the year we generated $7.8 billion of free cash flow which is more than twice the amount we generated in the first half of 2011.
The Wireless business is firing on all cylinders and our strategic actions and results clearly demonstrate our position of leadership in the industry.
We continue to post strong growth in retail service revenue driven by increased smartphone penetration Internet device adoption and new customer additions.
In the second quarter this top line growth combined with effective cost management and excellent customer retention resulted in a record setting EBITDA service margin of 49% which surpassed our previous high of 47.8% in the third quarter of last year.
In Wireline consumer revenues were up 2.5% which was the highest growth rate we've seen in several years.
While we continue to face challenges in the enterprise and wholesale markets we are confident that the decisions we’re making and the actions we are taking are the right ones for the long-term.
We're intensely focused on profitability management and key actions related to this include product portfolio rationalization targeted pricing moves and cost management initiatives.
I will go through these in more detail during our segment review.
In time these actions will result improved wireline profitability.
in spite of some revenue softness this quarter we were able to increase the EBITDA margin by 50 basis points sequentially to 23.1% and our objective is to have a stronger EBITDA margin in the second half of 2012.
Overall our strong second quarter and first half putting us solidly on track to meet our financial objectives for the year.
Let’s begin our review with a look at consolidated results on slide four.
We sustain solid consolidated growth trends in the quarter with contributions from all strategic areas.
Consolidated revenue grew to $28.6 billion up 3.7%.
Our focus on expense control helped drive double-digit operating income growth of 15.5%.
To put this in perspective while consolidated revenue increased $310 million sequentially operating income is up over $450 million.
This clearly demonstrates that our product rationalization cost management and process improvement efforts are starting to payoff.
We continue to be very focused on improving profitability moving more of every dollar we generate to the bottom line.
Consolidated EBITDA grew to $9.8 billion and our margin expanded to 34.2% up 150 basis points on both the year-over-year and sequential basis.
The upshot is an improved earnings growth trajectory for this year.
As John indicated in his introductory remarks we posted better than 12% EPS growth in the second quarter and we are up 15% year-to-date which is at the upper end of the guidance we provided in January of last year.
Let’s turn now to cash flow and capital spending on slide five.
Our free cash flow this quarter increased $3 billion sequentially to $5.4 billion driven by a 56% increase in cash from operations and reduced levels of capital spending.
Capital expenditures totaled $3.9 billion in the quarter a decrease of about $690 million compared to last year.
For the first half capital spending of $7.4 billion was down more than 16% year-to-date.
Our outlook for the full-year is flat to down versus $16.2 billion in 2011.
We continue to expect our annual CapEx to revenue ratio to decline based on improving revenue trends and disciplined capital spending.
In Wireless CapEx in the second quarter was $2 billion which was 23% lower than last year.
Through the first half Wireless capital was $3.9 billion was down 27% year-over-year.
You will recall that in the first half of last year we were spending more for 3G capacity in connection with our initial launch of the iPhone.
Going forward we expect to see continued migration of traffic from 3G to our lower cost 4G LTE platform which will drive further improvements in operating and capital efficiency.
We will also continue expanding our 4G LTE network coverage which is already the largest in the nation by a wide margin.
In Wireline we spent $1.6 billion in capital during the second quarter 5.3% less than last year.
Through the first half Wireline capital was essentially flat with last year at $3.1 billion.
Our balance sheet and credit metrics remained very strong.
Total debt of $52.4 billion is down $2.8 billion since the end of last year.
Net debt was $42.4 billion at the end of June and our net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio was about 1.2 times.
Let’s now move into our review of the segments starting with Wireless on slide six.
Our Wireless business had another very impressive quarter sustaining strong growth in retail service revenue higher retail postpaid ARPU growth and excelling cost and churn management resulting in our highest EBITDA service margin ever.
Total Wireless revenues of $18.6 billion grew 7.4% and now represents 65% of Verizon’s consolidated revenue year-to-date.
Our revenue results were driven by 8.6% growth in retail service revenue.
Postpaid revenue which makes up most of retail service grew 8.3%.
Retail prepaid revenue was also very strong up 27.2% the highest growth we’ve seen in four years.
Total service revenue grew 7.3% this quarter and is up 7.5% year-to-date.
Data which represents almost 44% of service revenue grew 18.5% to $6.9 billion in the quarter.
Retail postpaid data revenue grew more than 20%.
Let’s take a closer look at connection growth on slide seven.
We continue to gain share in the retail postpaid market driven by sustained demand for our 3G and 4G LTE handsets tablets and internet devices with the unmatched service quality of the nations largest and most reliable wireless network.
We have an industry leading 94.2 million retail connection with nearly 89 million postpaid and more than 5.3 million prepaid.
During the quarter we added 1.2 million new retail net connection; 888 000 postpaid and 290 000 prepaid.
Before we discuss postpaid in more detail I’d highlight another strong quarter of retail prepaid performance with a 24% sequential increase and net adds.
Similarly last quarter tablets represented a little more than half of the add however this quarter 95% of our prepaid tablet additions were 4G LTE which is key from the standpoint of better operating and capital efficiency.
In postpaid our 888 000 net adds represent a substantial sequential increase from 501 000 in the first quarter.
Our porting ratios with the major carriers continue to be strong and our churn metrics remain excellent.
Retail postpaid churn of 0.84% is the lowest we’ve seen in four years.
Postpaid growth additions in the quarter were just over $3.1 million up about 3% sequentially.
As expected upgrades were lower sequentially with about 7% of our postpaid base upgrading devices in the quarter.
In addition to increasing smartphone penetration we also continue to make good progress with internet devices which include postpaid tablets.
In the second quarter about 90% of the internet device sales were 4G LTE.
We are far and away the market leader in this space with more than 7.5 million internet device connections in our retail postpaid base.
Next let’s turn to slide eight and take a look at smartphone and retail postpaid ARPU metrics.
We had another strong quarter of smartphone sales increasing the penetration of our retail postpaid phone base to 50%.
Once again an increasing majority of retail postpaid phone sales were smartphone 73% compared with 60% a year ago.
During the second quarter we activated 2.9 million Android smartphones 2.5 million of which were 4G LTE and 2.7 million Apple iPhone up from 2.3 million a year ago.
During the second quarter 25% of iPhone sales were gross adds or new to Verizon with 75% representing upgrades from existing customers.
In terms of 4G phone sales 20% were new to Verizon and 80% upgrades.
Importantly more than 40% of customers upgrading this quarter were buying a smartphone for the first time.
Retail postpaid ARPU was $56.13 this quarter up 3.7% which was higher than the previous record growth of 3.6% last quarter.
In terms of the mix retail postpaid phone ARPU of about $58 grew 4.9% while internet device ARPU of about $47 declined 6.6%.
As expected Internet device ARPU has become less dilutive to blended post data ARPU and growth.
In addition these devices continue to generate double-digit service revenue growth.
Our 4G LTE deployment has expanded the market for these devices.
All of which enables higher usage of our network.
Our Share Everything plans which became available on June 28 represent a new and innovative pricing framework providing a unique customer value proposition and at the same time creating an optimal way for us to monetize increasing data usage.
These strategic thrust of these plans is to encourage device adoption and stimulate usage.
Our plans are designed to make the decision to upgrade to a smartphone or add a tablet much easier.
By allowing up to 10 devices to share data these plans also provide for the creation and adoption of all kinds of new connected devices.
Early feedback has been great and our customer adoption is tracking with our expectations.
We are seeing a wide variety of customers and family share accounts opting into Share Everything including existing smartphone customers with unlimited data plans.
Let’s turn to slide 9 as I’d like to spend a few more minutes talking about the strength of our 4G LTE leadership.
We are by far the market leader in 4G LTE coverage which is now available in 337 markets covering more than 230 million tops which is nearly 75% of the U.S.
population.
And point of fact we have more 4G LTE coverage than all of our competitors networks combined.
Throughout the year we will continue expanding our 4G LTE network with the goal of having a nation wide footprint similar to our 3G network by mid-2013.
We continue to be very pleased with 4G LTE adoption.
Customer awareness of our 4G LTE network superiority is increasing.
And our new brand advertising further positions us as the network of choice for 4G LTE.
Sales of 4G LTE devices have risen steadily each and every quarter since we launched service about a year and half ago.
During the second quarter 4G LTE smartphone sales increased more than 16% sequentially to 2.5 million units nearly a 11 million or 12% of our 89 million retail postpaid connections are 4G LTE.
Roughly 70% are smartphones and 30% are Internet devices.
Stated in other way about 19% of our smartphone base has a 4G LTE handset and more than 43% of our Internet device connections are 4G LTE.
While these statistics are impressive in their own way they also show we have lots of room to grow which is a very positive indicator for us looking forward.
Let’s conclude our Wireless segment review with the discussion about profitability on slide 10.
We generated $7.7 billion of EBITDA in the quarter which is an increase of 15.8% and expanded our EBITDA service margins by 270 basis points sequentially to 49% again a record high for us.
Our margin performance is once again a testament to our sustained ability to execute well on our strategy of balancing growth and profitability.
The combination of sustained service revenue and ARPU growth an intense focus on cost management lower upgrade eligibility and consistently excellent in churn metrics are contributing to our industry leading margin performance.
We will continue to look at all opportunities within our cost structure to drive process improvements and operating efficiencies.
As I previously indicated we have identified $2 billion in cost savings opportunities in wireless and we remain right on track to successfully capture these savings.
On the transaction front our purchase of the AWS licenses from SpectrumCo Cox and Leap Wireless are at varying stages of review by the FCC and the Department of Justice.
We continue to expect approval and to close these transactions this summer.
Our plans for an open sale process for our 700 megahertz A and B spectrum licenses are proceeding as planned but of course remain contingent upon the closing of the AWS purchases I just mentioned.
The agreement that we announced in late June with T-Mobile to exchange specific spectrum in the AWS band is also contingent upon the closing of those transactions.
These license transfers also require FCC approval which is expected later this summer.
These transactions are good for all parties and the industry as a whole as we facilitate the best first use of this spectrum for all players.
We appreciate the constructive role the FCC has played in this process and look forward to securing approval.
Let’s move to our wireline segment next on slide 11.
Second quarter wireline revenues were flat sequentially but declined 3.1% year-over-year.
From a profitability perspective wireline EBITDA declined 6% year-over-year but improved about 2% on a sequential basis with EBITDA margin moving up 50 basis points sequentially to 23.1% despite lower quarterly revenue.
Wireline revenue is affected by a number of underlying factors.
On the upside revenue growth is accelerating in the consumer market driven by FiOS which again at 2.5% was the highest growth we’ve seen in several years.
Enterprise and wholesale revenue continues to be impacted by secular and global economic challenges particularly in Europe as well as by related foreign exchange movements.
In addition as we indicated last quarter we are also making deliberate and specific moves to rationalize and simplify our Enterprise Solutions product portfolio eliminating products where they no longer make sense reducing product complexity streamlining services and consolidating networks to improve efficiency and product profitability.
We currently have more than 700 different products and thousands of variations that are defined by particular geography network or system.
This portfolio simplification effort will dramatically improve our go-to-market speed and operations quality.
In the near-term these actions create revenue impacts.
Over time however the actions will result in margin benefits and improved profitability.
We estimate that about 65% of the overall wireline revenue decline this quarter was a result of our own deliberate actions to improve profitability.
Examples include the de-emphasis of drop-ship CPE the continued exit from certain international wholesale routes and contracts decommissioning end of life products like ATM frame relay and IP VPN no longer offering dry-loop DSL or selling DSL in FiOS markets and exiting non-strategic product lines by calling cards and payphones.
Again we firmly believe that these are the right actions to be taking at this time.
We are on the right track and I’m confident that these product rationalization and process simplification initiatives along with additional cost management actions will improve the long-term profitability of the wireline business.
Let’s take a closer look at revenue results starting with mass markets on slide 12.
Within mass markets consumer revenue growth of 2.5% improved from 1.7% and 1.3% in each of the last two quarters.
As a result our pricing actions related to set-top box rentals triple play bundles and higher data speeds available through our new FiOS Quantum offer.
The outlook for accelerating consumer revenue growth in the next several quarters looks very encouraging.
Our residential connections trends also continue to improve.
We lost 199 000 retail residential connections in the quarter representing a 6.6% decline year-over-year compared with a loss of $240 000 or 8.2% at this time last year.
FiOS revenue grew 17.4% in the quarter and now represents 65% of consumer revenue.
As a result of the increasing scale of FiOS total consumer ARPU is now over $100 up 8.5% from a year ago.
FiOS ARPU now stands at more than $149 per month and 70% of our FiOS consumer customers are triple play with voice Internet and video services.
In terms of broadband we added 134 000 new FiOS Internet additions and now have more than 5.1 million subscribers representing a penetration of 36.6%.
We had a net loss of 132 000 DSL subscribers which is higher than the last few quarters primarily due to seasonality.
We believe that the discontinuance of dry loop DSL also negatively impacted net add but was clearly the right decision from a profitability standpoint.
In FiOS Video we added 120 000 subscribers in the quarter bringing our total to 4.5 million and increasing our penetration to 32.6%.
We continue to seek ways to drive FiOS revenue growth improve operating and capital efficiencies and maximize profitability.
Key parts of the strategy include targeted pricing actions further differentiating our services with the offers like FiOS Quantum.
Our copper to fiber migration in areas with chronic repair issues within FiOS markets and a number of other cost management initiatives.
In light of these actions we feel a more natural range for FiOS quarterly net adds going forward should be about 20 000 to 30 000 less than our previous range of 180 000 to 200 000.
We are confident that at these levels we can still maintain an increasing revenue growth trajectory and expand profitability.
Let’s move next to our business markets starting with global enterprise.
Global Enterprise revenue was down $32 million sequentially or less than 1% but declined $136 million or 3.4% year-over-year.
In addition to a $70 million impact from lower CPE sales in the quarter foreign currency translation had an $84 million adverse impact on growth as the stronger dollar versus the euro and pound sterling caused the decline in the current quarter compared with the benefit a year ago.
Absent these effects we would have had positive revenue growth in spite of the continued secular and global economic challenges.
Strategic services which comprises 52% of global enterprise revenue totaled $2 billion up 4.4%.
While we continue to perform well in these services international and FX are having an adverse effect on growth at this time.
Looking ahead we do expect our enterprise business to contribute more to the overall wireline revenue growth and profitability particularly as we work through our product streamlining and process efficiency initiatives.
Our strategic realignment of Verizon Enterprise Solutions will better position us to unlock value in the core business while better aligning our strength in high growth markets like cloud computing machine-to-machine and advanced communications.
We remain confident in the strength of the enterprise asset portfolio and the value it will generate over the long term.
On the acquisition front our purchase of Hughes Telematics has passed the Hart-Scott-Rodino stage and we expect to complete the transaction in third quarter.
We look forward to combining Hughes Telematics’ robust service delivery platform and suite of applications with our global IP network cloud mobility and security solutions.
We believe that this platform has the potential to reach beyond automotive and transportation and create new M2M opportunities in mobile health asset tracking and home automation to name a few.
Moving next to global wholesale revenues in the second quarter declined $34 million or 2% sequentially and $203 million or 10% year-over-year due primarily to declines in transport services.
We continue to take all the necessary actions to exit unprofitable routes and contracts and to better position the business in the fiber-based Ethernet data services space as customers with special access transition from DS1s and DS3s.
Let’s move now to our summary slide.
Overall a strong second quarter and first half putting us solidly on track to meet our financial objectives for the year.
We continue to execute very well.
Our solid top line performance in the first half of the year has been fueled by strong retail service revenues in wireless and increasing growth in consumer wireline.
Our record-high wireless margins in the second quarter combined with our strong focus on improving profitability through product rationalization and cost management in the wireline has driven double-digit growth and consolidated operating income and earnings per share for the last two quarters.
This strong operating performance together with our disciplined capital spending drove significant increases in free cash flow and an improving return on investment profile for the entire business.
We expect to continue to build on this momentum and look forward to a strong second half of the year.
With that I will now turn the call back to John so we can get to your questions.
Thanks Brian.
Before we jump into questions I know that we are having some link issues with the IR website this morning.
we are working on it and all the typical documents will be available shortly if they are not already.
With that Brad let's take our first question please.
(Operator Instructions) our first question will come from Jason Armstrong of Goldman Sachs.
You may ask your question.
Great thanks.
Good morning Fran.
A couple of questions first on the FiOS metrics you just talked about sort of a new range for additions that I guess implies more or like 160 000 to 180 000 adds per quarter going forward.
You flipped a little bit lower than that this quarter I am just – can you help us think through that.
You obviously talked about some price hikes are we also at a point where the base is large enough that 2Q seasonality in video i.e.
were negative and then rebounced in 3Q is this starting to catch up with the business as well.
And then second question just on the wireless distribution.
it was roughly this time last year you announced intentions for a $10 million upstream payment to the JV partners.
Can you help us think through maybe a timeline for announcing the distribution for next year and then given the stronger free cash flow you’ve seen in the business would that point sort of conceptually to a bigger distribution? Thanks.
Yeah.
sure Jason thanks for the question.
So first on the FiOS piece.
just a couple of things here so yes there was – we actually did have slower growth in this quarter than we anticipated.
so a couple of factors here one was there was a seasonable unusually high move season in the month of June compared to prior second quarter.
so we experienced some additional moves out and normally in this business it takes us a quarter to recapture the move in.
So I think that partially would set off from a timing difference.
But more importantly I think that we have refocused more on our profit on the FiOS side.
So first we went through these price ups you saw some of the benefits there in the first quarter where we drove our consumer revenue growth the 2.5%.
And this was the price ups of our set-top boxes and you’re going to see more price ups coming in the third quarter around the bundles and into the fourth quarter.
In addition we launched our Quantum product and the price ups that we have on people choosing additional speeds.
I am extremely confident with both of these actions.
We can double our revenue growth by the end of this year from 2.5% to around 5% and I am very confident that we can accomplish that.
So one is that that we’re really concentrating on revenue growth.
Second is as you know we’ve really concentrated around copper to FiOS migration.
We nearly doubled the amount of migrations we did in the second quarter versus the first quarter and also what we’re seeing is the first quarter migrations that we accomplished these customers are generating more ARPU close migrations and free because they are also selecting higher speeds under our Quantum offers.
So I think the range as we said is probably in the neighborhood of 150 000 to 170 000.
I know you said 160 000 to 180 000 but it’s around 150 to 170.
But we are on a steady growth pattern and I believe that we are really focusing in on better margins and acceleration of the top line.
On the Verizon wireless dividend I know there has been a lot of press lately out there and I am not sure where this idea is coming from but I can tell you right now the only thing I will say is that there is not distribution on the agenda for the upcoming Verizon wireless board and that’s probably I am going to say at this point in time.
Okay thanks Fran.
Brad can we move on to the next question please.
Our next question comes from John Hodulik of UBS.
You may ask your question.
Thanks guys.
Two quick ones for you on the Wireline side; first Fran thanks for all the info on the product rationalization on the wholesale side.
But you could give us some idea of when you think you should start to see some improvement I think the 10% was a little bit worse than we thought when do you think that could start to get better? And then second of all if you could update us on the union contract and where you are in negotiations that would be great.
Okay great.
Thanks John.
So on the wholesale side yeah 10% decline this was accelerated from 8.9% in the first quarter.
And to be honest I think that we're fighting an uphill battle here on the core voice in LTE product and that will continue to decline.
The focus right now is to reposition ourselves for Ethernet and fiber-to-cell and those products are picking up.
And I think that quite honestly the range that you see here is probably the range that we will continue with somewhere between an 8% to 10% decline going forward.
But again this is a diminishing revenue stream and we will continue to manage that stream.
On the union side of that half as I've mentioned before when we entered into these negotiations we knew that this was going to be extremely difficult and very hard negotiations and it was going to be a long-haul not a short-haul.
And given our peers it took them 500 days to get the contributions and some pension resets and we're now almost the year-end of this sort of 365 days.
So when you look at the profitability of this business over the last five years it has decreased and this cost structure is not sustainable going forward.
We really needed the business to address this cost structure in relation to the benefits particularly healthcare contributions and pensions and we need increased flexibility around our work rules which we – some of these work rules date back to 1960.
So we aren't asking for things that have not already been given to other companies these are not new issues for the union a many of our peer companies are already there.
So we are standing strong on our position of cost restructure in this business so the negotiations are continuing albeit slow and the process will take as long as it takes for us.
So at this point that’s what I’ll report on the union negotiation.
Great.
Thanks Fran.
Thanks John.
Brad can we move to the next one please? Our next question comes from Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much.
Good morning.
Following up on the pension situation have you had a chance to run the numbers on the new highway bill and the new discount rates and any impact that you may have on your near-term pension contributions? And related to that you’ve talked about strong cash flow generation this quarter your leverages in the low ones how are you thinking about target leverage here about dividend increases for Verizon Corporation and potential buybacks down the road? Thanks.
Thanks we have looked to build preliminarily but there – this is a very complex thing.
I will tell you that at the beginning of this year we said we would have to contribute $1.3 billion into the plan.
We have $400 million left to contribute for the remaining piece of this year.
But I think there’s other things that have to go into consideration here other than just the timings benefit of this bill.
First you have to look at the borrowing rates.
Second you have to look at tax rates structures then what the current rate is versus what future rates may be.
And then you have to look at the overall pension strategy that we have related to our pension plan.
So at this point I’m not prepared to speak to whether we will adopt the funding plan or not adopt it what I will tell you is this is not material to the cash flow either this year or into the next three years and again it is just the timing issue.
So I will have more to report on that as we complete our analysis and come into the 2013.
As far as cash flow goes we had an unbelievable quarter in cash flow from operation generation our continued focus in on investment and making the right investments to return additional investments on that and get greater returns both in the wireline and the wireless business.
As I said we really have curtailed the spending on our EV-DO networks which is generating more cash flow in the wireless business.
But again without really going into a lot of detail here the dividend policy is extremely important it is a board decision but it is very very important to Low and I and we will continue to recommend to the board what we think is appropriate.
And from a share buyback as I said before I don’t think we are in a position to start buying back shares it is always a timing issue for companies to – when the best time to do that is and at this point we probably won’t be in a position to do anything like that until late ’13 or early ’14.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks Simon.
Brad let’s move on.
Our next question will come from Philip Cusick of JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Thanks Brad.
You mentioned that some customers have been moving over to the new price plans I wonder if you can give us some idea of whether we should be looking for some ARPU headwind in the third quarter versus the rapid rate that you’ve been growing before it starts to sort of be accretive maybe in next year? Thanks.
Yeah thanks Phil.
I mean it is very preliminary we just launched this on June 28 so we just started in on this.
I think some of the positive factors that we are seeing is that obviously all of your adopters are always your optimizers but to be honest based on where we are at right now we are actually tracking ahead of where we thought we would be and we don’t see any ARPU impact in the third quarter or fourth quarter.
I think our trend will continue that we have established here in the first and second quarter.
And the benefit though that we do see is that we are seeing some 3G unlimited customers move into our 4G share data plan product and that is excellent for us from a cash flow position on capital efficiency and cost reduction metrics.
So there are some interesting things there and then that again the other thing on ARPU here is as Internet device ARPU continues to improve that gives us better opportunity to accelerate our overall ARPU growth.
That’s all.
Thanks Fran.
Thanks Bill.
Can we take the next question please? Our next question comes from Jonathan Chaplin of Credit Suisse your line is open.
Thanks.
Fran I’m wondering if you can give us some context of where you think sort of longer-term over the next three or four years CapEx to revenue trends in wireless?  Well I think that without giving a lot of guidance here beyond this year which we set our overall capital plan will be flat to down from where we were last year.
Obviously you can see that wireless is utilizing capital extremely efficiently down I think now or most for the year about $1.3 billion year-over-year.
Our overall CapEx to revenue ratio in the first half of 2011 was 16.4% and that’s down to 13.1% and as I said before we are committed to continue to improve on that metric this year and continuing to ’13 and ’14.
And I think we will leave it at that.
Thanks.
Thanks Jonathan.
Brad let's take the next question.
Our next question comes from Michael Rollins of Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks for taking the questions.
Just a quick side note if you can just give us an update on the wireless net debt at the end of the quarter.
And then secondly if you can go in a little bit more depth on what's happening in the enterprise business maybe you could help us size Europe or international for you versus U.S.
and give us a sense of what strategic services would be growing at if you can have the European issues this CPE influence side et cetera.
Thanks.
Sure Michael thanks.
So for the end of this quarter gross debt on wireless box is a $10.9 billion.
On July 1 we actually paid down another piece of that debt of $800 million.
The cash rate now is $8.4 billion so net debt at the end of this quarter was $2.4 billion.
On the Enterprise business just a kind of set some of this – as I said last quarter our international revenue is about $400 million a quarter.
We were growing close to 15% to 17% on a year-over-year basis both within EMEA and in Asia.
Last quarter we said that we saw the first time that it actually went flat on year-over-year basis and this quarter we actually saw a decline on a year-over-year basis.
Strategic services is about 75% of our sales in international which is very different than it is here in the United States.
So with the FX impact and the impact that Europe is having on that strategic revenue stream that is having an overall impact on the overall strategic revenue growth.
I think the important thing here is the way we move forward is that we are really building our business around platforms.
And if you look at what we’ve done we are rated number one in the world on security.
We have build our data center platform around our Terremark acquisition and now we are going to build our machine-to-machine and applications platform around the Hughes Telematics.
And I think that brings a different paradigm to us going forward.
So I’m very optimistic on the Enterprise business.
We are showing still some growth in strategic services and I think if we didn’t have the headwinds and some of these other economic pressures I believe we are a double-digit strategic growth company there should be no reason why we can’t get back to those numbers that we showed in the past two years.
So I think this is a temporary thing but given where we are with Europe this could be another two to three quarters out mid ’13 before we start to turn the corner here.
But we are positioning ourselves and I think we are making all the right decisions that when we do turn the corner and get some economic release that we will show a very good portfolio here.
Thank you.
Thanks Mike.
Brad let’s move on to next question please.
Our next question will come from David Barden of Merrill Lynch.
You may ask your question.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
Fran just a quick housekeeping item.
I think this quarter you said that Wireline margins in the second half would be higher than the first half.
Is that the same thing as what you said last quarter that Wireline margins would be up year-over-year just to clarify? And then the upgrade rate fell from 8% in 1Q to 7% in 2Q and obviously that’s a big swing factor for margins almost 200 basis points.
Have you think for the rest of the year and maybe as a run rate as a function of the actions that you’ve taken for upgrades how do you think about that 7% upgrade rate as a baseline as a driver of margins through the rest of the year and maybe just generally going forward? Thanks.
Sure.
Thanks David.
So on the Wireline margins look we are very very solid on improving our Wireline margin here in the second half first the first half.
I think that given some of the cost structure issues that we have especially around the contract we think that we can still improve our margins.
If we can get to a better [inhere] with the contract then I think that we can actually improve our margins on a year-over-year basis but that will come down to a timing issue.
I do think though that when we’re focusing on the consumer side of the house as I said I’m very confident that we can double our revenue growth here.
We are very focused in on the profitability of FiOS.
The profitability increase in Wireline this quarter was really centered around the FiOS really progress that we made on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
So I think we have a lot of good things here and we’ll just have to play this out but we’re very very confident that we’ll improve our wireline margins here.
On the upgrade side of the house obviously this is timing a lot of things go into play here.
We’ve made a lot of moves in the last year and a half around restructuring our upgrade policies.
As you know we’ve launched our $30 upgrade fee.
Obviously this all has an impact on the level of upgrades and then of course there is always that Rumour Mill out there with a new phone coming out in the fourth quarter.
And so people maybe waiting but look we manage this on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
I think the way I look at this though going into the back half of this year on the upgrades is that we’ll manage this business on a profit and on a growth trajectory.
And if you think about what wireless has done when we get to the fourth quarter.
We will have taken $5 billion out of our cost structure in the last three years which is why we can generate margins of 49% which beat our all-time high from last year.
So I think that wireless has a very good track record in history to deliver both on profitability and growth.
Thanks David.
Brad we will move on.
Thanks Fran.
Our next question comes from Mike McCormack of Nomura Securities.
Your line is open.
Hey guys thanks.
If I maybe just a little bit deeper dive on that thought process and we obviously with some new policies in place and relatively lower upgrades.
We might not see the same pattern we saw last year and last year we all remember that people were waiting for the iPhone in Q4 so Q3 margins were super high.
Should we not expect that same dynamic given the changes in policies? And then secondly on the FiOS side when you talk about profitability is this on a per subscriber basis or just slowing down overall growth adds and should – we will not be making a margin sacrifice to take share here? Thanks.
Thanks Mike.
So just a couple of things on the margin side of the half.
So I mean I think again I’ll just repeat what I said is we’ll manage this business both on a growth and profitability perspective for wireless and I think we’ve proven that.
look I mean obviously the fourth quarter is always a seasonable volume quarter for the industry and I expect that to happen again with the holiday season that’s coming up.
So it will really factoring on the volumes that what new devices and I’m sure we’re going to have plenty of new devices that come up between now and the holiday season.
and if you look at phone to device side of the house we just launched the Samsung Galaxy 3 on our 4G LTE network.
And it proved the point that when we launch a very technical phone that’s great when appearance and viability that people accept that phone and that phone is selling extremely well.
So all these factors come into play but I think that we are very very confident that what we laid out in January of 2011 regardless of what phones come what phones don’t come and what kind of a season it will be we will hit our financial objectives.
On the FiOS side of the house as I said we did have some seasonality pressure here but look we have to balance the perspective; most of you’d look at our wireless portfolio.
we have to balance the consumer wireline portfolio in the same fashion.
we have to balance growth with revenue acceleration and improving profitability.
and that’s what we’re set out to do and we’ll make the decisions in the right ones to in order to achieve all three of those metrics.
Great thanks Fran.
Thanks Mike.
Brad can we take the next question please.
Our next question is from Brett Feldman of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just for our own understanding that you mentioned that the distribution would not be on the agenda to next Verizon Wireless board meeting is it quarterly or semi annual.
and then just to the business you’ve talked about the prep work you’re doing on the 700 megahertz license sale assuming you’ll get a favorable resolution with the regulators on the contingent transactions.
How quickly do you think you can move ahead with it? Do you have a sense of urgency or is it just one of the things that can take while? Sure.
Thanks Brett.
On the vote of our dividends the board meets on a quarterly basis and in each – the partnership agreements specifically states that on an annual basis the dividend will be reviewed at the end of the year.
So that’s really all there is to say on that.
On the 700 A and B megahertz sale as you know we’ve already hired a third-party we are ready to go as soon as we get approval on the SpectrumCo deal.
So this is going to be an immediate thing not something that’s going to take a while.
So we are really setup to go and it will be as fast as we can get the auction done and make sure that we get a price that we believe is fair and then we will sell the spectrum.
So that’s the timeline.
Great thanks for that.
Thanks Brett.
And just an update – I continue to get updates on the IR related – website related issue.
We continue to work it.
We should have all documents available very shortly for those that couldn’t get them.
Brad right now it looks like we have time for two more questions.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Tom Seitz with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Yeah thanks for taking the question.
Fran you mentioned you’re accelerating a bit the copper shutdown.
in the past you’ve mentioned that a gating factor was regulatory approval to shutting down the copper plant for those that wanted circuit switched lines.
I’m wondering if there has been any sort of change in the local regulatory environment that allows you to accelerate that? And then secondly I think in the past you’ve mentioned the shutdowns would be in the hundreds of thousands is that materially going up? And is that a thing where you’d sacrifice a bit of margin and maybe spend a bit more CapEx to accelerate this process.
Okay.
So on the copper shutdown piece over the past few years we have gotten a lot of regulatory release in a lot of states on copper being the provider of last resort and those types of things.
So as we go here and through our product rationalization we are moving as quickly as we possibly can in shutting down that copper plant and obviously we did that in Dallas a year ago and we currently have one we’re running in Florida that we’re shutting the switch.
So we continue down that path and we’re doing that as quickly as possible and as I said from a FiOS to copper migration or a copper to FiOS migration we nearly double the amount of migrations that we did and so we’re being as aggressive as we possibly can in these areas.
So from that perspective I think we’re right on track.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Tom.
Brad let’s take our last question please.
Our last question comes from Kevin Smithen of Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Your investment in Italy was I think you said a $0.02 drag on EPS this quarter.
How should we think about the impact over the next few quarters and can you talk about what the strategic importance of your Italian asset and that is this going to a be drag why not try to dispose it? I think that given the pressures that we’re seeing in Europe it’s not unforeseen that there would be a pressure there in the Omnitel market of Italy.
And what we’re seeing is that that created a $0.02 pressure on a year-over-year basis.
Strategically I’m not going to discuss whether we’re going to stay a partner or not a partner but right now it is a strategic asset for us to be a partner.
And you think that $0.02 drag will continue over the next few quarters will it get worse how should we model it?  I think it will be pretty consistent.
Okay.
Okay.
thanks Kevin.
Brad that concludes our call.
Thanks everybody we appreciate you dialing in this morning and once again we’re doing everything we can to work on the IR related – website related issue we had this morning.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
Thank for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Verizon Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be opened for questions following the presentation.
(Operator Instructions) Today’s conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host John Doherty Senior Vice President Investor Relations for Verizon.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
I am John Doherty.
With me this morning is our Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo.
Before we get started let me remind you that our earnings release financial and operating information the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website.
This call is being webcast.
If you would like to listen to a replay you can do so from our website.
I would like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement.
Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties.
Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon’s filings with the SEC which are also available on our website.
This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also available on our website.
I would also point out that the quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.
Before Fran takes you through the details of our results I would like to cover a few items upfront.
For the quarter we reported earnings of $0.56 per share on a GAAP basis.
These results include $232 million or $0.08 per share for non-operational charges related to patent litigation settlements with TiVo and ActiveVideo.
On an adjusted basis EPS was $0.64 in the third quarter up 14.3% year-over-year.
Through nine months adjusted EPS is $1.87 an increase of 14.7% from last year.
Discussion of consolidated results and growth rates in this presentation exclude the effects of non operational items.
As we have previously indicated we are no longer reporting average revenue per unit or ARPU for wireless postpaid devices instead we are disclosing average revenue per account or ARPA which we believe is a more meaningful metric going forward given our new shared data pricing plans.
Earlier this month we filed a Form 8-K which disclosed 10 quarters of historical information for the following retail postpaid metrics; the number of accounts the average connections per account and the average revenue per account.
This information can also be found on our investor website.
It is now part of the wireless selected operating statistics included in our financial and operating information schedules.
With that I will turn the call over to Fran.
Thanks John.
Good morning everyone.
Before we get into the details let me start with a few comments about our financial results.
We continue to execute our plan well across the entire business.
Consolidated revenue growth increased to 3.9% and our strong focus on cost management and improving profitability resulted in solid double-digit growth in operating income and earnings per share for the third consecutive quarter.
This sustained operating performance together with disciplined capital spending is driving significant increases in free cash flow resulting in capital efficiency gains and an improving return on investment profile for the overall business.
Through the first nine months we generated $13.4 billion of free cash flow which is 50% more than last year.
The wireless business is setting global benchmarks for performance and we are building significant momentum heading in to the fourth quarter and 2013.
Service revenue growth increased to 7.5% driven by increasing smartphone penetration and greater device adoption stimulated by the successful and well received introduction of our Share Everything plans.
This sustained revenue growth performance together with our demonstrated ability to effectively manage cost and retain customers resulted in a record setting EBITDA service margin of 50% even with our strongest subscriber growth in four years.
In Wireline consumer revenue growth accelerated to 4.6% a sharp increase from 2.5% in the second quarter driven by increased FiOS revenue per customer.
Enterprise and Wholesale revenues continue to be impacted by secular and global economic challenges particularly in Europe.
We are confident that our focus on improving long-term profitability through product rationalization and simplification along with process streamlining will prove to be the right decisions as we build a fundamentally stronger business.
On September 19th we reached a tentative agreement with the CWA and IBEW for new three-year contracts covering about 43 000 associates.
We believe that this is a fair and balanced agreement that is good for our employees as well as a real positive for the future of the wireline business.
I will talk more about the tentative agreement during the wireline segment review.
Overall another strong quarter of performance put solidly on-track to meet our financial objectives for the year.
Let’s begin our review with a look at consolidated results on slide four.
We sustained our solid consolidated growth trends with positive contributions from all strategic areas.
Consolidated revenue growth increased at 3.9%.
Our operating leverage and strong focus on expense controls drove operating income up 17.9% our third consecutive quarter of double-digit growth.
Consolidated EBITDA grew to $10 billion and our margin expanded 40 basis points sequentially to 34.6% its highest level in nearly four years.
Earnings growth also improved.
As John indicated in his introductory remarks adjusted EPS growth was more than 14% in the third quarter and is up nearly 15% year-to-date.
Let’s turn now to cash flow and capital spending on slide five.
Our free cash flow increased to $5.6 billion in the quarter driven by higher cash from operations and continued discipline in our capital spending.
Capital expenditures totaled $3.9 billion in the quarter an increase of about $260 million compared to last year.
Year-to-date capital spending of $11.3 billion was down about 10%.
My expectation is that capital spending for the full year will be lower than the $16.2 billion we incurred in 2011.
In addition we expect our annual CapEx to revenue ratio to decline based on improved revenue trends and disciplined capital spending.
In Wireless CapEx in the third quarter was $2.1 billion which was about $350 million higher than last year.
Year-to-date Wireless capital of $6.1 billion was lower by nearly 16%.
CapEx savings this year are due primarily to lower capacity spending on the 3G network.
We continue to build and expand the nation’s largest 4G LTE network as more customers choose 4G LTE smartphones and devices the migration of data traffic from 3G to our lower cost 4G LTE network will drive further improvements in operating and capital efficiency.
Currently more than 35% of our data traffic is already on the 4G LTE network.
In Wireline capital spending was $1.5 billion in the quarter down a $133 million from last year.
Year-to-date Wireline capital of $4.6 billion was about 3% lower.
Our previously announced spectrum transactions all closed during the third quarter representing the net cash outlay of $3.7 billion.
In return we received about 5.9 billion Megahertz POPs of high quality AWS spectrum.
Our balance sheet and credit metrics remain very strong.
Total debt of $52.8 billion was down $2.4 billion from the end of the last year.
Net debt was $43.1 billion at the end of the quarter and our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was about 1.1 times.
I would like to spend the next few minutes discussing pension liabilities and funding starting on slide six.
Yesterday after the market close we announced that we will be transferring approximately $7.5 billion of management retiree pension benefit obligations to Prudential by purchasing a group annuity contract.
Prudential will assume the responsibility in making monthly pension payments to approximately 41 000 management retirees.
The transfer will not change the amount of the monthly pension benefit received by these retirees or their surviving beneficiaries.
Pension obligations relating to active management and union represented employees and retirees are not affected.
The transaction will remove about 25% of our outstanding pension liabilities upon closing which we expect to occur in December.
Turning to slide seven this transaction is part of an overall pension de-risking strategy and reduces our exposure to funding and income statement volatility caused by change in investment returns discount rates and longevity risk.
It also allows us to transfer this liability at reasonable economics and avoid certain administrative costs while improving the longer term financial profile of the business.
As a result of this transaction some additional cash funding will be required in 2012 to fully fund the pension obligations being transferred to Prudential and to maintain the funded status of the pension liabilities that will remain with Verizon.
In terms of timing we already made an additional $930 million pension contribution in September.
So on a year-to-date basis we have made $1.8 billion in contributions.
In the fourth quarter we expect to make another $1.6 billion cash contribution.
Our revised outlook for pension funding in 2012 is estimated to be $3.4 billion as compared to the $1.3 billion we estimated at the beginning of the year.
While this represents more funding this year we will have no cash funding requirements for pensions in 2013.
Based on our current plan assumptions we also expect contribution requirements in future years to be lower as a result of this transaction.
Let's now move into the review of the segments starting with wireless on slide 8.
Our wireless business had another excellent quarter with accelerating growth in retail post paid connections better than expected adoption and financial performance of our new Share Everything plans and strong growth in post paid revenue per count or ARPA.
Even more impressive is the fact that we achieved a 50% EBITDA service margin while activating more smartphones than any other quarter in our history with the exception of the fourth quarter last year.
Total wireless revenues of $19 billion grew 7.3% and represent 65% of Verizon’s consolidated revenue year-to-date.
Retail service revenue grew 7.9% and total service revenue growth was 7.5% in both the third quarter and year-to-date.
As John mentioned we are disclosing new retail post paid metrics replacing ARPU with ARPA as well as providing a number of post paid accounts and the average connections per account.
The change in reporting aligned with a strategic intent of our shared data plan which is to encourage device adoption and stimulate usage on our wireless network.
Since driving service revenue growth is the key to our business model the more relevant metric going forward is the amount of revenue that we generate per account.
During the quarter ARPA grew to more than 145 hours per month an increase of 6.5%.
In only 3 months 13% of the retail postpaid base adopted Share Everything plans.
Adoption is ahead of our expectations and ARPA dilution has been lower.
As we're seeing existing customers adding devices and increasing their data usage allowances.
The combination of incremental revenue from new customers smartphone upgrades increased devices connecting to our network and higher usage will more than makeup for the effects of the customers initially optimizing their accounts.
The voice adoption and data usage will become the primary drivers of service revenue growth for years to come.
Lets’ take a closer look at connections growth on slide 9; as we mentioned coming out of the second quarter our retail postpaid net adds have continued to accelerate.
With our strong performance I am very confident that we continue to gain postpaid market share in the quarter.
In addition to our strong device portfolio network reliability and 4G LTE advantage the introduction of our Share Everything plans prove to be yet another compelling reason for customers to choose Verizon.
During the quarter we added 1.8 million new retail net connections with more than 1.5 million postpaid and 228 000 prepaid.
We have an industry leading 95.9 million retail connections with approximately 90.4 million postpaid and 5.5 million prepaid.
Our 90.4 million postpaid connections represent 34.8 million accounts with an average of 2.6 connections per account.
Before discussing our postpaid results in more detail let me highlight our retail prepaid performance where we had another strong quarter.
Net adds of 228 000 were significantly higher than a year ago and prepaid revenue continue to positively impact retail service revenue growth.
In retail postpaid our 1.5 million net adds represent a substantial sequential increase from 888 000 in the second quarter and the highest total we’ve reported in four years.
Roughly one-third of these net adds were internet devices which include USB modems jetpacks and postpaid tablets.
Roughly 95% of our postpaid internet device activations this quarter were 4G LTE which is very positive from a daily usage perspective and provides additional evidence that our Share Everything plans are stimulating device adoption.
As you know we are the market leader in this space with 8 million internet device connections in our retail postpaid base and more importantly over half of these are 4G LTE.
Our churn metrics continue to be market leading.
Retail postpaid churn of 0.91% improved by 3 basis points year-over-year and was up only 7 basis points sequentially in what is typically a seasonally higher quarter.
Postpaid gross adds in the quarter were very strong at $4 million up 27% sequentially and 20% year-over-year; also the highest gross add quarter in four years.
The number of customers upgrading devices was slightly less than last quarter representing 6.8% of our retail postpaid connection space.
Next let’s turn to slide 10 and take a look at smartphones and our progress in 4G LTE.
Smartphone penetration increased from just below 50% last quarter to more than 53% a strong quarter in terms of smartphone adoption.
As expected an increasing majority of postpaid phone sales were smartphones.
In the third quarter we activated 6.8 million smartphones representing 79% of the total phone category; 3.4 million of these smart phones were android of which 3 million were 4G LTE.
In terms of Apple iPhones we activated 3.1 million in the quarter 21% of which were 4G LTE.
Another important point is the improving mix of gross adds and upgrades within our smartphone activations.
In the third quarter the percent new to Verizon increased to 31% of total activations a sharp improvement from the 20% t 23% range we have reported in past quarters.
This higher gross add mix is recognition of our 4G LTE network advantage since an increasing percentage of our smartphone activations are 4G LTE.
In addition within the customer upgrades 44% were buying a smartphone for the first time.
In terms of 4G LTE coverage we are by far the market leader.
Our 4G LTE service is currently available in 419 markets covering more than 250 million POPs roughly 80% of the US population.
As our TV commercial say we have more 4G LTE coverage than all of our competitors networks combined.
We will continue expanding our 4G LTE network with a goal of having a nationwide foot print similar to our 3G network next year.
Sales of 4G LTE devices have risen steadily each and every quarter since we launched service in late 2010.
In the third quarter this increase was more dramatic as 4G LTE smartphone activations increased to 3.7 million from 2.5 million in the second quarter.
At the end of the quarter we had 14.9 million 4G LTE phones and devices in our postpaid base representing 16.5% of total retail postpaid connections.
Said in another way 25% of our smartphones and 51% of our internet devices are 4G LTE.
Very impressive numbers in a relatively short period of time.
However we expect these percentages to continue to ramp as all new smartphones in our device roadmap will be 4G LTE.
Looking ahead we see a great deal of new product development activity in end to end particularly in healthcare and energy.
We are also collaborating on in innovative video roadmap with the cable companies as part of our technology joint venture.
Let’s conclude our wireless review with a discussion about profitability on slide 11.
We generated $8.1 billion of EBITDA in the third quarter an increase of 12.4% and expanded our EBITDA service margin by 100 basis points sequentially to 50%.
Again we achieved this record profitability in a quarter in which we reported the highest number of gross and net adds in four years.
Simply stated our margin performance is a testament to a demonstrated and consistent ability to execute well in our strategy of achieving both growth and profitability.
The combination of sustainable service revenue growth and intense focused on cost management and consistently excellent churn metrics are all contributing factors to our industry leading margin performance.
In terms of managing our cost we will continue to look at any and all opportunities within the business to drive process improvements and operating efficiencies.
As I previously indicated we identified $2 billion in cost saving opportunities in wireless this year and we have already surpassed that target.
Let's move to our Wireline segment next starting with mass markets on slide 12.
Mass markets revenue grew 3.8% due primarily to accelerating growth in the consumer business.
Our 4.6% revenue growth was the highest we've seen in 10 years and we are on track to achieve at least a 5% growth rate in the fourth quarter.
This growth of course was driven by FiOS where revenue grew 18% in the third quarter and now represents about two-thirds of consumer revenue.
The increasing scale of FiOS is driving growth and consumer revenue per month which increased to nearly $104 in the quarter up 10.3%.
FiOS ARPU is now over $150 000 per month and about two-thirds of our FiOS consumer customers are triple plays with voice internet and video services.
In terms of broadband customer growth we had a 136 000 new FiOS internet additions in the quarter and now have nearly 5.3 million subscribers representing penetration of 37%.
In DSL we had a net loss of $144 000 which is a bit higher than the last few quarters.
Again our decision to discontinue offering dry loop DSL had a negative impact on gross adds but was clearly the right decision from a profitability standpoint.
In spite of the lack of net subscriber growth broadband revenues increased both sequentially and year-over-year driven by our quantum offer and copper-to-fiber migration.
In FiOS video we added about 120 000 subscribers in the quarter bringing our total to $4.6 million and increasing our penetration to 33%.
In terms of FiOS customer growth we did experience some seasonality with respect to churn due in part to an increase in customers moving and also some elasticity related to our price increases.
Based on our current sales activity we are expecting improvement in FiOS customer adds in the fourth quarter along with our continuing revenue growth trajectory.
Within mass markets we are focused on driving revenue growth improving operating and capital efficiency and maximizing profitability.
Key actions this year included targeted price increases new differentiated services like FiOS Quantum and our copper-to-fiber migration initiative which is helping to reduce our dependence on copper technology.
Through nine months we have migrated about a 150 000 homes-to-fiber and we are on-track to exceed 200 000 by the end of the year.
We have already experienced a greater than 10% improvement in our Trouble Report Rate which is saving on repair costs in these areas.
We are also beginning to gain some traction in up-selling new customers with additional FiOS services which will result in additional monthly recurring revenue.
We will have more to say going forward with regard to this important initiative including how many homes will we be targeting in 2013.
Suffice it to say that we are pleased with our progress to-date and view the copper-to-fiber migration as an important part of our strategy to reduce the wireline cost structure.
Before moving on I would also add that our residential connection trends continue to improve.
During the third quarter we lost 217 000 retail residential connections representing a 6.3% decline year-over-year compared with a loss of 278 000 or 8% at this time last year.
Let's move to our enterprise markets next on slide 13.
As I said in my overview our challenge in the enterprise markets is primarily one of secular pressures and global economic conditions which include foreign exchange movements.
In addition as we previously noted we are making deliberate moves to rationalize and simplify our enterprise solutions product portfolio which is also putting near-term pressure on revenue comparisons.
In the third quarter Global Enterprise was down $39 million sequentially and declined a $140 million or 3.6% compared with year ago.
A majority of which were due to intentional actions on our part.
This includes the de-emphasis of drop-ship CPE and decommissioning end of life products like ATM frame relay and IP VPN.
Lower CPE sales represented a $139 million of the year-over-year decline.
Foreign currency translation also had an unfavorable impact on revenue as the stronger dollar versus the euro and pound sterling caused a $40 million dollar decline in the third quarter compared with a $37 million increase a year ago.
We are confident that our product rationalization and streamlining initiatives will fundamentally strengthen the business and improve our operating efficiency.
We are also taking actions to enhance our network facilities and overall end-to-end service provisioning in order to put the business in a stronger position to benefit when the global economy picks up.
These strategic and operational activities are creating some margin pressure in the near-term and will result in improved profitability in 2013.
Strategic Services which comprised 53% of Global Enterprise revenue totaled $2 billion up 4.4% while we continue to perform relatively well in these services.
International and FX continue to have an adverse effect on growth.
Domestically we are seeing new contracts and investment decisions being delayed as enterprise CIOs continue to be cautious with regard to uncertainties involving the election outcome the pending fiscal cliff potential tax reform and other policy changes that may take place.
Collectively these uncertainties have created a wait-and-see approach that is impacting new business.
We believe that a better understanding of these impacts will help companies make decisions about their capital commitments and we are hopeful that enterprises renew their investing activities in 2013.
During this period Verizon Enterprise Solutions continues to strengthen its competitive position in higher growth markets like cloud computing machine-to-machine and advanced communications.
In late July we completed the acquisition of Hughes Telematics which will expand and accelerate our capabilities in advanced automotive lead telematics and many other machine-to-machine services.
Moving next to Global Wholesale revenues in the third quarter declined $45 million sequentially and $181 million or 9.2% year-over-year due primarily to continued declines in transport services.
We are taking the necessary actions to exit unprofitable routes and contracts and to better position the business in the fiber-based Ethernet data services space as customers with special access transition from DS1s and DS3s.
Let’s move on to slide 14 next to summarize wireline.
From a topline perspective the overall picture is mixed with some very encouraging signs in the consumer market while we continue to manage through secular and cynical challenges in Enterprise and Wholesale; our product rationalization initiatives while putting some near-term pressure on revenue will ultimately serve to strengthen the business.
At the beginning of the year we were optimistic that EBITDA margin in the second half of 2012 would show improvement compared to the first half.
As I have stated at a few investor conferences in September we’re no longer seeing this being the case due primarily to growth challenges on the Enterprise side and the length of time it took to reach an agreement with our union.
In addition some of the activities to reduce our reliance on older technologies and systems along with the many processed reengineering efforts we have going have created margin pressure in the near-term.
Collectively all these initiatives are designed to improve the Wireline cost structure.
We fully expect that these and other cost management actions will result in improved profitability in 2013 and over the longer term.
To that end for the past 15 months we have talked about the importance of concluding our union contract negotiations and coming up with a contract that is fair and balanced for our employees but at the same time addresses some key issues related to our ability to achieve improvements in our cost structure.
Let’s talk a bit more about the contract on slide 15.
On September 19th we reached a tentative agreement with the CWA and IBEW for new thee year contracts covering about 43 000 associates.
The contracts are currently in the ratification process which typically takes 30 days so we hope to be able to announce a definitive agreement very soon.
Under the tentative agreement there are changes to medical and prescription drug plans for active and retired associates including contributions toward healthcare premiums for active employees.
In addition current retirees will make contributions toward healthcare premiums for some medical plans while associates who retire after January 1 2013 will make premium contributions regardless of the medical plan which they enroll in.
New associates hired from this point forward will be eligible to participate in a 401(k) savings plan instead of a traditional pension plan.
The agreement also makes changes to old legacy policies including tighter absence controls and better quality control and training practices.
There are new provisions that will result in better work rule flexibility such as national cost sharing which will improve the customer experience and allow our associates to work more efficiently and cost effectively.
Since the contract has not yet been ratified I am not going to quantify the annual cost savings at this time.
We will have an opportunity to communicate this information at an investor conference in early November so stay tuned for more information on this subject.
Let's move now to our summary slide.
Overall a very good third quarter keeping us solidly on-track to meet our financial objectives for the year.
We are executing our plans and investing for the future.
Consolidated revenue growth is increasing and we have had four successive quarters of EBITDA margin expansion with the third quarter being the highest margin since 2008.
We have built strong earnings momentum with three successes of quarters of double-digit growth and have generated 50% more free cash flow than last year at this time.
Our disciplined capital spending and revenue growth is driving improved capital efficiency.
In Wireless we further solidified our excellent spectrum position by closing all our pending transactions.
And with our 4G LTE network advantage our unmatched product portfolio and our well received Share Everything plans we feel a confident about our ability to sustain our industry leading profitability in 2013 and beyond.
In Wireline although we have work to do we are putting the right plans in place to strengthen the business and improve profitability in 2013 and over the longer-term.
Our strategic investments and actions position us very well for sustainable growth.
We continue to build for the future and while may have some near-term challenges we are successfully executing a well conceived plan that will drive profitability and create shareholder value in 2013 and into the future.
With that I will now turn the call back to John so we can address your questions.
Thanks Fran.
Brad let's open it up for questions please.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from Jason Armstrong of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
First on FiOS just a question on video; Fran you talked about certain impacts in the quarter and you talked about the potential for this to rebound next quarter.
I think what you talked about in the Q2 call was sort of a normal run rate of 150 to 170 is that still a target range we should think about for 4Q? And then second question just on the pension structure in terms of the feel and the $7.5 billion can you help us think through how that impacts the P&amp;L what that does to the expense stream in wireline? Thanks.
First on the FiOS growth yeah I think that I gave a range of 150 to 170; where we came out of September I am very confident that we will get to that 150 plus for net adds in the fourth quarter so I think that's a good target.
And then on the pension side I think that from a P&amp;L perspective it’s very hard for me to distinguish at this point in time; there are so many fluctuations here.
But I think the key to this whole thing a couple of points I want to make here.
So from just an overall cash perspective which is the real key here because this is really the cash impact of the business.
As you know we made a first half contribution of $600 million.
In the third quarter we added another $1.2 billion to the plan so $1.8 billion from a cash impact perspective to-date and in the fourth quarter we determined that we will put another $1.6 billion into the plan.
All these contributions are tax deductible.
We will not have any 2013 contributions and that based on our planning and the assumptions that we have in this transaction the future cash contributions to the pension plan will be less post this transaction close which we anticipate to be early December.
So from that perspective that to me is the important part.
I think everything else is pretty minimal at this point in time.
Thanks Fran and you talked about this being applicable to current retirees is there any prospects for taking this in to sort of the active employee base? I think at this time we've no more definitive agreement at this time and to extend this transaction.
This transaction is specifically related to management retirees who retire before January 1 of 2010.
It does not impact current active management employees.
It does not impact current active union represented employees nor does it impact retiree union represented employees.
Thanks Jason.
Brad could we move on to the next question please.
Our next question will come from John Hodulik of UBS.
Your line is open.
If we could just talk about margins little bit here; first on the wireless side you know last year you guys saw a little over 500 to 600 sequential decline in the fourth quarter mostly related to fourth quarter launch of the iPhone.
Does the earlier launch of the iPhone sort of lower that decline along with some of the another initiatives you’ve been doing.
If you just could about what do you expect from a trending standpoint there? And then on the wireline side I know you guys don’t want to give the details on the union contract but can we start to see some of the benefits as early as the fourth quarter or what kind of trend are you looking for there? So on the wireless margin look I think that this has a lot to do with volume right? So the iPhone 5 came out in very late September.
There really wasn’t all that much volume on the iPhone 5.
If you look at our total iPhone adds we added 3.1 million 1.1 million than we did a year ago and about 651 000 of them were iPhone 5s the rest were 4 and 4S.
What we’re seeing here is we’re seeing that the iPhone 5 we had supply constraints we’re not sure where we’re going to stand in the fourth quarter with those constraints.
But what we’re seeing on the 4 and the 4S is that we’re attracting customers who probably previously did not come to Verizon because of the cost point of that iPhones.
So I think you saw that in our net adds growth for the quarter.
So again from a trending perspective and all the work that we’ve done around cost and the $2 billion and if you look at the three years; we’ve taken out $5 billion of cost structure of wireless.
Again I think that given the volume there could be some dilution in that margin.
If the volumes exceed what they were in the third quarter which I anticipate they will.
If you recall back to the first quarter I said we would accelerate our growth throughout the quarters for the year as we come out of the third quarter.
You saw we posted our highest growth in the last four years and I think that we will accelerate that growth into the fourth quarter.
So yes I think we will have some deterioration in the margins in the fourth quarter for wireless.
But at this point I can’t tell you what that will be because I don’t know what the volume will be.
But obviously I don’t anticipate it to be as much as it was a year ago.
Great and then on the wireline side I think this story is a much more complex story.
But in the short just for the union piece of this I think we’ll wait till the fourth quarter but you’re not going to see any benefits this year.
But I don’t want to really get into the details until this contract is ratified.
A number of unions have ratified it but it will not be ratified by all until the next couple of days are over.
So once that happens I will give some more clarity around this add during the fourth quarter and into the first quarter.
Thanks John.
Brat could we move on to the next question.
Our next question comes from Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Fran could you talk to us about these 700 MHz spectrum process where you stand in that how it’s looking so far when do you think you might be able to give us some more news on that? And then what are the implications of that and what’s the likely timing of another decision on the Verizon wireless dividend to the parent Verizon and to Vodafone? Thanks.
So on the 700 MHz we started this process late in the third quarter the process is ongoing.
We have a lot of interested parties a lot of complexity to the bidding process here from the individual respective party.
So there is a lot of work to be done here and we are not ready to talk about exactly where we are with these.
I think the important point though is we are going to analyze each and every bid.
We are also developing our own internal plans to launch this spectrum because as I said before this is not a fire sale on spectrum.
So if we do not get fair value or what we believe to be fair value then we will use this spectrum internally.
But at this point I think it’s too early to communicate exactly how this will proceed but I think it will happen late in the fourth quarter possibly not till the first quarter and if we do come to terms with some of these than it has to go through the normal FCC approval.
We are probably very close on that probably till late third quarter fourth quarter of 2013.
As far as Vodafone dividend; this is a very interesting question.
Because I think we all forget that on January of 2012 we actually did do a dividend that’s $10 billion and throughout the year during our normal course we did about another $4.5 billion of tax distributions.
So year-to-date we have done $14.5 billion of dividend distributions out of wireless.
To talk about a further dividend I think it’s pretty mature we have an agreement with Vodafone that we will discuss this before the end of the year and once we have that discussion and we will report out what the decision will be.
Brad could we move on to the next question please.
Our next question is from Phil Cusick of JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Two things one I wonder if you can tell us whether substantially higher portion of phones came in with no subsidy this quarter people paying for price and it is [down] their previous plan that happened in the past? Yeah Phil so obviously if you look at our growth and you look at the number of phones we have moved the majority of the phones sales incurred a subsidy on them.
But we did have a number of customers who actually paid full price for phones to remain on the unlimited plan.
So we did have some customers who made that choice and stayed with Verizon Wireless.
But for the majority most of the smartphones that we sold included a subsidy.
But we also had our large volume in our postpaid tablet category and we also had a large volume in our internet category and they carry for the postpaid tablets at really no subsidy.
And on the internet devices we almost doubled the amount of net adds we had from second quarter to third quarter which was a contribution to our Share Everything plan and they have a reduce subsidy compared to what a smartphone would be but the majority of devices did have a subsidy.
You mentioned that given the Septembers results you expect FiOS to be over a 150.
Is that more a seasonal shift or are you putting a little more effort in to promotion and marketing here? Well I think it’s a combination of a couple of things.
Number one I think as I said coming out of second quarter we probably moved away a little bit too much of promotional activity.
So we picked that up in September and the third quarter is a very high seasonality of moves for us and this is always a third quarter issue with FiOS because people move out of the area and we can't retain them because they move to an area that does not have FiOS availability to them.
We are doing a lot of effort in reconnecting existing homes that already have an O&amp;T on the side of the house for people who have moved in.
So you are going to see a lot more activity around that.
I also think that we did see some pressure in the current phase from the price upset we had.
And I think those price ups were all done now so I think we are going to stabilize here and I'm very comfortable that we’ll get back to that 150 000 plus for net add projection.
Thanks Phil.
Brad the next question please.
Our next question is from Tom Seitz of Jefferies.
Fran I would like to discuss copper shutdown a little bit.
AT&amp;T has publicly stated that for them to invest in the 20 million access lines they have got under a strategic review they are going to need relief from copper circuit-switched TDM regulations.
If they were to get that would you consider applying for the same relief and accelerating the copper shutdown? I ask because at current course and speed in the neighborhood of $200 000 conversions per year that's 50 plus years to shutdown the redundant copper plant and its probably the largest structural impediment to improving wireline margins.
From a copper shutdown perspective its highly unlikely that you will ever see a Verizon have no copper in their network because of the vastness of this network.
But I think strategically the way we have approached this from a copper-to-fiber migration all copper is not created equal.
We have areas where the copper has really deteriorated because its 60 years plus and we are strategically going after what we call chronic troubles and that is a truck roll that happens in a period of six months time and that costs us about 900 hours in cash from a perspective of that.
So when you look at the overall investment that we have to make to migrate that customer from copper to FiOS its more cost effective to go after those chronic problems first.
But not all of the network that leads into one switch is having these chronic problems.
So to think about decommissioning every switch in our network would be a huge cost undertaking.
So we believe that the strategy we've outlaid with our copper-to-fiber migration is financially viable it’s better for the customer we see that from the customers who we have migrated in the short term they are actually buying up in the FiOS quantum and generating $10 plus more ARPU.
So we are strategically going after this.
We have also received a lot of regulatory relief already in the states that we deal with from being a carrier of lost resort replacing in Pennsylvania fulfilling our obligation of bringing broadband to customers via (PA30) rulings which would be with wireless instead of wireline which is a much more financial beneficial to Verizon.
So we have already explored a lot of this regulatory highway and we will continue with our copper to fiber migration under the plan that we are executing.
Thanks Tom.
Brad the next question please.
Our next question comes from Michael Rollins of Citi Investment Research.
First if I could ask my quarterly question for an update on the net debt at Verizon wireless and then secondly just moving over to the wireline side can you give us an update on the VDMS segment and just the strategy that you are continuing to pursue there the progress including the relationship that you have with Redbox? Thanks.
Sure thanks Mike.
So your general normal quarterly question I have it right here is gross debt of $10 billion cash of $8.1 so net debt of about $1.9 billion.
And then on the Wireline side of house was VDMS; we are making significant progress.
We have been dealing with what we call a number of chartered customers which includes many content providers and movie houses in helping us to customize this package and get this thing to market.
We anticipate that it will come to market in 2013; I won't be specific on that date at this point in time but we believe we have a very viable product to come to marketplace that will significantly change the way content is if you will packaged and picked and shipped.
So we will have more to say on that within 2013 but I think that will start to contribute to some of the Wireline top growth and help to improve the margin overall.
Thanks very much.
I am sorry I mentioned Redbox.
Now we are very close to launching here in the fourth quarter of Redbox.
VDMS plays a very critical role in the content delivery with that joint-venture with Redbox and again I think moving into 2013 the business case that we have with us with Redbox will improve our topline and contribute to the profitability of the overall Wireline segment.
Alright let’s keep this moving.
Thanks Mike.
Brad lets take the next question.
Our next question is from Jennifer Fritzsche of Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Great thank you Fran.
If I could could you provide a little color on your CapEx trend; I understand you are saving on the 3G spend but given these impacts of postpaid net add results and growth in internet devices I would think you would need to continue to spend on capacity.
I guess I am just trying to understand if this is all benefited following 3G or also a result of your spectrum position?  Yeah thanks Jennifer for the question.
I think that from a CapEx perspective as I said all along I believe that 2012 would be flat I am saying now it will definitely be down from our 2011 spend; I think the trajectory in the ’13 will be very similar to the ’12.
I think what you’ll see is what you saw in the third quarter that we continue to very closely manage the CapEx on the Wireline side of the business meanwhile Wireless will continue with their plan to build out the 4G LTE by mid-year next year compared to our 3G footprint.
I don’t see a substantial change in the CapEx trajectory here but obviously this does depend on growth and we hang our hat on being the best network most reliable network in the industry and that we’re not going to loose that position.
So Wireless has been A plus in this area and I don’t believe that will change but I don’t think there is a significant change in the capital trajectory here.
Thanks Jennifer.
Brad next question please.
Our next question is from Mike McCormack of Nomura.
Your line is open.
Fran maybe just a quick comment you talked a little bit about the cover migration process and yeah there’s obviously some leg to that and the longer term benefits I think are pretty clear but just give us a sense if you can as to maybe the magnitude of margin pressure as you do that migration process over the next two year or so? And then secondly on the Wireless side we’ve had this sort of honeymoon with the change in policy with respect to upgrade window that I think should be coming to a close right about now.
So as we look into the fourth quarter and you’ve got this pool of people that are now upgrade eligible that have not been for the last six months.
How should we be thinking about upgrade percentages as we go through maybe both 4Q as well as 1Q? Thanks.
Hey thanks Mike.
So migration in Wireline pressure I guess there is a couple of things here and it’s not just the migration but obviously doing some of this work does increase some CapEx to us and thus increase some of the operating expense to us but I would say that’s in combination with a lot of other things that we are doing.
But this positions us for the future.
I would say though that beyond this from a pressure standpoint on Wireline obviously the third quarter to us is always a seasonal pressure point from a weather condition the construction issue fiber cuts and so forth so that’s not unusual for the third quarter to be a bigger margin pressure for us.
But the delay of the union contract had an impact on our margins the Hughes results obviously if you go back and look at Hughes on a standalone basis they contribute to dilution in the Wireline segment because that is now included in the Wireline.
As we said we are in the process of retooling the enterprise which is putting a little bit of pressure in the expense category with system consolidation and product rationalization.
And then we have also deliberately have gone out during the third quarter and we will probably do a little bit of this in the fourth quarter and accelerated some of the repairs and maintenance within our facilities.
We are also doing some additional work in our networks to increase our diversity and reliability within the Wireline network.
So there is a lot of things that’s putting a little bit of pressure on the Wireline but again I think we are taking this opportunity during the low of the economic condition preparing for this economic turn that hopefully will come in 2013 and I think we will be in a better position to ride that wave when it comes.
So I think it’s a combination of all that.
And then on the Wireless side the upgrade window I guess the way I would put it this way is our upgrade percentage will be more in the fourth quarter than it was in the third quarter but I will tell you I think it will be less in the fourth quarter of a year ago.
Okay.
And just I am sorry just circle backing the Wireline side should you be thinking about the third quarter is not the right starting point as we go in the fourth quarter if it’s the seasonality impact we’ll be looking at 2Q as the run rate? Well I think what I would say is for the third and the fourth quarter I think you will see similar performance here while we reposition ourselves but this will position us for improved profitability in 2013.
Thanks Mike.
Brad the next question please.
Our next question comes from Kevin Smithen of Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
There are a lot of questions this week on what the impact would be from the (inaudible) entry into the U.S.
Does this at all change the way you run your business over the next couple of years whilst Sprint and T-Mobile are going for the regulatory approval integration and network build out processes and what if anything will be the long term impact on Verizon’s Wireless business? So let me just start out with the couple of things here because it’s important.
First as I said in few of the investor conferences I anticipated and we suspected some consolidation.
And I think what the market should walk away with here is that there are two very large companies willing to invest in the U.S.
wireless market.
I believe this is a sign and it is very good for the industry and I think this shows the strength of the U.S.
market and the growth potential that’s still available within this market.
I think what this means from us is a couple of things.
First if you go back to January 2011 the biggest that Lowell and I made was we are all about executing on our plans.
We have invested and built and remain on our brand to be the best and most reliable network.
We have pioneered launched and now are the largest 4G LTE network with more coverage than all of our competitors combined.
I think if you look at our spectrum holding we have a superior spectrum holding and quality of spectrum with our 700 MHz contiguous across the United States which we've launched our 4G LTE network launch on and with the closing of our AWS spectrum with the cable companies.
So I think we are in a very strong position from a spectrum holding perspective.
If you look at our capital and in the past we've taken a little heat from the market for the amount of capital that we have spent on our networks.
But if you look at on average we spend about $10 billion per year investing in our wireless and our wireline IP backbone support for that wireless network and I think at the end of the day you would all agree that execution equal results here.
I think the third quarter results speak for themselves.
So we will continue to execute and we will continue to lead the industry.
Just a quick question new reports indicate Isis is finally launching on Monday.
Can you confirm this and what's the strategy going to be there to compete against Square Google Wallet and others.
I think that at this point we let Isis answer those questions.
They are going to launch and we will see how the trial markets doing and then we will go from there.
Thanks Kevin.
Brad can we take next one please.
Our next question is from Brett Feldman of Deutsche Bank.
Now that we are getting some visibility here on the number of postpaid accounts that you have I was wondering if you can give us a little more color here on the portion of them that are business accounts.
And then just sticking with Share Everything it sounds like the initial benefit you got out of the gate was that households are starting to attach internet devices like tablets and other and MiFi.
Was that the principal benefit or did you actually see an increase in the attachment rate of smartphones on existing households mean that maybe homes were taking advantage of the plan to consolidate people who maybe have been on different carriers all on to Verizon.
So on the accounts we're not going to split the accounts here between business and consumer.
We will just leave it as we will give the accounts we will give the devices per account and the ARPA on that.
As far as the Share Everything plans I think the best answer is we're seeing a little bit of everything.
We're seeing our customers move from their old legacy plants.
We're seeing customers who were on unlimited plans move to Share Everything plan.
Now you would think that these initial customers that moved are optimizing from that.
But what we're seeing is that they are attaching more devices.
That includes more smartphones and especially with the price points now and some of the lower end iPhones that we're seeing more attachment rates there.
We're seeing a lot of attachment on internet Wi-Fi devices.
And I think what we're seeing is they are attaching the MiFi device at $20 price point rather than each individually attaching a tablet.
So I think we're seeing very good success in MiFi attachment rates and from tablets we're seeing some of that but probably not as much as we had expected.
But the MiFi attachment is running extremely higher than we expected.
So I think overall again what we're seeing in Share Everything is better than what we had expected in our business case.
Thanks Brad.
Brad we are going to take two more questions.
I know folks you’ve had a busy night with our pension release as well as - that’s why we got our earnings out a little bit early.
So we will take two more.
I know you also have another busy day ahead of you with some other meetings.
So let’s move on for two more questions.
Our next question comes from Tim Horan of Oppenheimer.
Your line is open.
Fran two questions; one related to the data side of things.
It looks like Sprint and T-Mobile are really going to be focused on unlimited data.
As they get their networks up to speed in a few years how do you convey to your customers that your share data is still economical and makes sense for customers like really how you’re positioned against that? And do you think they can continue to afford to do it? Secondly as these companies really restructure their networks in the next two years historically have you been able to capture share to those periods and do you think you’ll be able to kind of do that again I know it’s early stages with what PCS and T-Mobile are doing and what Sprint’s but maybe your expectations for the next few years in share gains? I tried to answer your question in my speech on industry consolidation but maybe I didn’t do a good enough job.
But on the data side of the house I think our network and our competitive advantage speaks for itself.
And I think superiority of our network; I think what you’re seeing is that we’re competing in that arena today against the unlimited plans.
As far as the network goes we’ve invested $10 billion probably in the last 10 years in our network.
It’s going to be difficult for others to make that within two years as you say.
So I think that’s a longer term plan.
But look it’s all good for the industry.
The industry is focused on the growth but there is a lot of opportunity out there and we’ve proven that we can be a leader in the industry and we’ll continue to do that.
Thanks Tim.
Brad this will be the last question.
Our final question comes from Jonathan Chaplin of Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Looking at the upgrade rate it looks like you are on a trend to have an upgrade rate this year that’s below your historical rate of about 32% a year.
Can that continue to go down in 2013 and if it does with the 50% EBITDA margins in wireless this quarter where can wireless EBITDA margins go next year and longer term? Thanks.
On the upgrade rate yes I do think it will decline.
There is a lot of things that we took in place from 2010 all the way through but I think that that will continue happen.
As I said in the fourth quarter it will be more than the third quarter obviously; but I think we will be less than a year ago and I see that trend continuing.
As far as wireless margins I will leave at this.
If you trend out on a graph over the last 10 years what wireless has done given we grow and more profitable you will see that we will continue to manage that balance and continue to increase our overall portfolio in our profitability.
Thanks Jonathan.
Brad that concludes our call.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today’s conference call.
Thank you for your participation and thank you for using Verizon conference services.
Your may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Verizon Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be opened for questions following the presentation.
(Operator Instructions) Today’s conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.<br><br>It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Brad.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
I am John Doherty.
With me this morning is our Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo; and well as Mike Stefanski who recently assumed our role as Head of Investor Relations.<br><br>Before we get started let me remind you that our earnings release financial and operating information the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website.
Replays and a transcript of this call will be available on our website later today.<br><br>I would like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement.
Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties.
Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon’s filings with the SEC which are also available on our website.<br><br>This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also available on our website.
I would also point out that the quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.<br><br>Before Fran takes you through the details of our results I would like to cover the differences between reported an adjusted earnings this quarter.
These are displayed on slide three.
For the quarter we reported a loss of $1.48 per share on a GAAP basis.
This quarter there were several significant non-operational charges that we’d like to highlight.
The largest item is a pre-tax charge of $7.2 billion related primarily to the non-cash yearend mark-to-market adjustment of pension and OPEB liabilities.
This charge is due primarily to changes in the discount rate and other actuarial assumptions as well as the annuitization of various pension liabilities during the quarter.<br><br>On an after-tax basis this charge amounted to $4.4 billion or $1.55 per share.
We also incurred pre-tax charges of $1.4 billion related to early retirement of debt and other restructuring activities.
Most of the charges are debt redemption costs resulting from a tender offer for a high coupon note during the quarter.
On an after-tax basis this charge was $871 million or $0.31 per share.<br><br>By excluding $1.86 per share for these non-operational charges adjusted EPS for the fourth quarter was $0.38.
This adjusted result includes $319 million of direct impact from superstore Sandy which equates to $0.07 per share.
Excluding the Sandy impacts adjusted EPS would have been $0.45 for the fourth quarter and full year results on the same basis would have been $2.31 per share.<br><br>With that let me start with some overview comments to put our fourth quarter and 2012 results in context.<br><br>As we have outlined in the past our strategy is to build upon the strong foundation of our superior network assets as platforms for growth and innovation.
This positions us in the center of the trends that are driving growth in our industry.
We have been consistently focused on better leveraging our capabilities across all parts of the business to capture growth opportunities in three key areas.<br><br>In wireless we’re looking to take advantage of opportunities driven by the rapid evolution of 4G LTE.
Another key area is FiOS where we are looking to further penetrate the consumer and small business markets.
We’re also looking to drive growth in enterprise strategic services particularly in the areas of global IP Cloud computing security and managed services.<br><br>From a financial standpoint our focus is on execution capturing incremental revenue and driving operating efficiencies throughout the business increasing our cash flow and improving our earnings profile.
During the year we made good progress across the entire business which I will detail more in the segment reviews.<br><br>In addition to our solid execution we also continued to make smart investments for future growth and improved profitability.
While very disciplined in our approach to capital spending we continued to invest in networks and new technologies which will be the platforms for accelerated growth going forward.<br><br>On the strategic front we closed several key transactions that will significantly improve our competitive position namely the acquisition of additional spectrum the purchase of Hughes Telematics the creation of Redbox Instant by Verizon our continued investment in Verizon Digital Media Services and the annuitization of $7.5 billion of pension obligations.
We are also focused on joint efforts around innovation with a number of partners and we expect to continue to build on our leadership position in the rapid development of the 4G LTE ecosystem.<br><br>From a shareholder value perspective we generated a total return of 13.2% in 2012 through a combination of stock price appreciation and dividends.<br><br>For the sixth consecutive year our Board of Directors approved a dividend increase indicating their confidence in the sustainability of our business model cash flows and improved earnings profile in 2013 and beyond.<br><br>Let’s begin with a brief look at consolidated results starting with slide 5.
Revenues from strategic growth areas drove a $5 billion improvement in our topline in 2012 and increased our annual growth rate by 50 basis points to 4.5%.<br><br>In the fourth quarter consolidated revenue growth increased to 5.7% which was our highest quarterly growth of the year.
Our positive momentum in wireless and FiOS together with our continued focus on improving the revenue mix in our enterprise business gives us confidence that we can drive topline growth in 2013.<br><br>Let’s take a closer look at earnings on slide 6.
Our strong focus on cost management and improving profitability resulted in double digit growth in adjusted operating income for the year.
Through the first nine months we posted double-digit adjusted earnings growth.
In the fourth quarter our bottom line results were impacted by decision to take advantage of our strong wireless market position which enabled historic customer growth and smartphone penetration gain.<br><br>Additionally the significant challenges created by super storm Sandy certainly had an impact on the business in the fourth quarter.
As a result 2012 earnings per share adjusted for the non-operational charges John outlined earlier came to $2.24.
One additional comment I would make related to Sandy is that while we were able to specifically identify a direct impact to the wireline business in the fourth quarter it was extremely difficult to effectively quantify the actual impact to normal operations.
I will talk more about this later.<br><br>Now let's move into a review of the segments starting with wireless on slide seven.
As one of our key growth platforms we have consistently invested in wireless to differentiate ourselves in terms of network quality reliability and the overall customer experience.
Five year ago we made a bold commitment to 4G LTE as the next generation technology.
Since then we have invested in the technology and its deployment.<br><br>We secured valuable spectrum.
We fostered our robust device ecosystem.
And this past year we introduced share data plans that changed the industry’s pricing framework.
These actions have resulted in consistent sequential growth throughout 2012.
Coming off a strong third quarter we made a strategic decision to take advantage of our 4G LTE lead and invest in growth which resulted in a record high post paid gross and net adds in the quarter.<br><br>In his keystone address at CES a few weeks ago Lowell showcased our long-term vision of what is possible with the 4G LTE highlighting innovation applications under development in areas like video the connected environment healthcare and energy.
Our new brand advertising campaign with the theme ‘powerful answers’ demonstrates our vision of network innovation and the many growth opportunities which will expand the industry in the coming years.<br><br>In 2012 wireless operating revenues totaled $75.9 billion up 8.1%.
Wireless now represents more than 65% of Verizon’s consolidated revenue.
Service revenue increased $4.6 billion or 7.7% for the year driven by connections growth and increasing smartphone penetration.
This service revenue growth together with our intense focus on cost efficiency and our ability to retain customers is clearly helping to mitigate equipment cost pressures.<br><br>Our success in capturing these cost savings resulted in higher profitability growth in 2012.
EBITDA grew $3.2 billion or 12.2% for the year and we expected our industry leading EBITDA service margins by 180 basis points to 46.6%.
Let's now turn to a more detailed look at volume growth beginning on slide eight.<br><br>Throughout 2012 we saw accelerating sequential growth in the postpaid market culminating in record net adds in the fourth quarter.
We had a great year of postpaid connections growth enabling us to gain market share.
Postpaid growth additions were up 6% and postpaid net adds increased by almost 800 000 to 5 million our highest annual net add total in four years.
During the fourth quarter we added more than 2.2 million new retail connections with 2.1 million postpaid and 142 000 prepaid.
We have an industry leading 98.2 million retail connections with 92.5 million postpaid and 5.7 million prepaid.<br><br>Our postpaid connections represent 35.1 million accounts.
Within the postpaid net add mix this quarter 1.9 million were smartphones and about 600 000 were internet devices.
The remainder being the net change in basic phones.
Postpaid gross adds in the quarter were a record 4.7 million up 18% sequentially and 29% year-over-year.
In terms of upgrades 9% of our postpaid connection space upgraded during the quarter up from around 7% in the third quarter and less than the 10% we experienced a year ago.
Our churn matrix continued to be market leading.
Retail postpaid churn was 0.95%.<br><br>Next let’s turn to slide nine and take a look at device sales and our progress in 4G LTE.
Our record sales volume in the fourth quarter included 12.5 million postpaid devices more than 90% of which were phones.
As we’ve seen each quarter an increasing majority of these phone sales were smartphones.
In the fourth quarter we activated 9.8 million smartphones which was by far our highest total ever.
About 65% of these smartphones were 4G LTE.
In terms of Apple iPhones we activated about 6.2 million in the quarter and almost half were 4G LTE.<br><br>Android phones made up a majority of the remaining smartphones and over 95% were 4G LTE.
Our smartphone penetration increased from 53% last quarter to 58%.
A year ago smartphone penetration was 44%.<br><br>A key point of differentiation for us which speaks to our incremental revenue opportunity is the improved mix of gross adds and upgrades within our smartphone activations.
In the fourth quarter gross adds for new to Verizon represented about 30% of total smartphone activations a sharp improvement from the 20% to 23% range we reported throughout 2011 and the first half of 2012.<br><br>We also have an incremental revenue potential within our upgrades.
as about 42% of customers upgrading this quarter were buying a smartphone for the first time.
In addition if we include customers upgrading from a 3G to a 4G LTE smartphone considering the likelihood of higher data usage we can say that three out of four upgrades represent incremental revenue going into 2013.<br><br>Customer adoption of 4G LTE is really gaining momentum.
While we have seen a steady increase in sales of 4G LTE devices each quarter since we launched service the sequential increase in the fourth quarter was much more dramatic.
Total 4G LTE device sales increased to $7.3 million up 60% from the third quarter.
Smartphone activations represented $6.4 million of this total up 74% sequentially.
Virtually all internet device sales in the quarter were 4G LTE with turbo sales doubling over the third quarter.<br><br>At the end of the year 4G LTE phones and devices represented 23.3% of total retail postpaid connections.
34% of our smartphones and 58% of our internet devices are now 4G LTE.
Almost half of our total data traffic is on the 4G LTE network which we believe is five times more efficient than 3G.
As we have stated throughout the year we are no longer adding capacity to our 3G network.<br><br>While the 4G LTE connections and data volumes are impressive we expect that these percentages will continue to grow as all new smartphones in our device roadmap will be 4G LTE.
In terms of 4G LTE geographic coverage we are by far the market leader.
Our 4G LTE service is currently available in 476 markets covering more than 273 million pops or about 89% of the U.S population.
We intend to continue leveraging our advantage and expanding coverage with the goal of having a nationwide 4G LTE footprint similar to our 3G network by midyear 2013.<br><br>Let’s take a closer look at our quarterly revenue performance on slide 10.
Total wireless revenues grew 9.5% to $20 billion in the fourth quarter.
Service revenue grew 8.5% in the fourth quarter driven by equally strong retail service revenue growth.
As you know last quarter we begun disclosing new retail postpaid metrics replacing ARPU with ARPA as well as providing the number of postpaid accounts and the average connections per account.<br><br>During the quarter ARPA grew to more than $146 per month an increase of 6.6%.
The average connections per account increased to 2.64 up more than 4%.
In just six months 23% of our postpaid accounts are on a shared everything plan.
Customers are quickly recognizing the value proposition.
Adoption is ahead of our expectations and we continue to see customers adding devices to their plans and increasing their users tiers.<br><br>Let’s conclude our wireless review on slide 11.
Our EBITDA service margin of 41.4% in the quarter was impacted by higher retail gross adds and the increased mix of smartphone sales this quarter in addition to stronger indirect channel performance.
During the fourth quarter we activated 2 million more smartphones than we did a year ago and saw only an 80 basis point differential in the margin.
In terms of absolute dollars we generated $6.8 billion of EBITDA in the quarter which is an increase of 6.3% year-over-year.
This strong customer growth and increased smartphone penetration drove service revenue and increased ARPA.<br><br>Our intense focus on cost efficiency is helping to mitigate the cost of equipment subsidies and commissions.
Our industry leading customer retention is also a key factor in our profitability which is a testament to the quality and reliability of our network and to the overall customer experience.
Verizon Wireless continues to be the industry leader and we have great momentum heading into 2013.
We fully expect to sustain our very strong service revenue growth and increase our profitability this year.<br><br>Last year we saw margins recover quickly from heavy smartphone sales in the fourth quarter of 2011.
In 2013 we expect the wireless EBITDA margins will rebound within the range of the record levels we reported in the second and third quarter of 2012.
Let's move next to our wireline segment starting on slide 12.<br><br>In wireline we are focused on migrating customers to fiber assets which provide better services and capabilities such as FiOS IP-based applications and cloud solutions.
These services are also more efficient and in the long run improve our cost structure.
The wireline business made positive strides in 2012 and fundamentals are improving in the strategic growth areas.
From a topline perspective we have encouraging signs in the consumer market where we posted the strongest topline growth in ten years.<br><br>In enterprise we continue to manage through the secular and global economic challenges.
Our product rationalization initiatives are also putting near-term pressure on revenue growth but we are confident that these initiatives which include significant efforts in the area of process and systems streamlining will prove to be the right decision as we build a fundamentally stronger business.<br><br>In terms of profitability we do not see the margin improvement we were expecting in the second half of 2012 due primarily to the length of the time it took to reach an agreement with our unions and also to the significant business disruption caused by the challenges of Sandy.
Our 2012 EBITDA margin of 21.3% includes $319 million of direct impact from Sandy.
Again it was very difficult to effectively quantify the indirect impact caused by this disruption.
Sandy had a dramatic effect particularly on the wireline business due to the heavy concentration of damage in the New York metropolitan area.<br><br>Our challenge was to restore service to customers as quickly as possible while still managing to meet the demand for new services.
We also made a strategic decision to use storm restoration as an opportunity to accelerate fiber migrations in both the enterprise and FiOS markets.<br><br>During the course of the year we successfully migrated 223 000 residential homes to fiber exceeding our target for 2012.
These customer migrations increased in the second half of the year and picked up considerably in the aftermath of Sandy.
From an operational standpoint we saw an 11% improvement in our overall copper-trouble report rate for the year.
This marked the first decline in four years and helped to lower the number of dispatches and reduce our repair costs.
Providing these customers with a greater opportunity to purchase FiOS services is also gaining some traction.<br><br>For customers that have decided to upgrade to additional FiOS services we are seeing a $45 lift in monthly ARPU.
We are pleased with our progress to date and view the copper-to-fiber migration plan as an important part of our strategy to reduce the wireline cost structure.
In 2013 we are targeting an additional 300 000 homes within the FiOS markets.<br><br>Let's take a closer look at the revenue components starting with mass markets on slide 13.
In the fourth quarter consumer revenue growth of 4.1% was driven by FiOS where revenue increase nearly 16% and now represents about 68% of consumer revenue.
Consumer revenue growth was impacted in the quarter by service credits and customer billing suspensions resulting from Super Storm Sandy.
The increasing scale of FiOS is driving growth in consumer ARPU which increased to more than $105 per month up 9.5%.
FiOS ARPU is now over $150 per month and two thirds of our FiOS consumer customers are triple play with voice internet and video services.<br><br>In terms of broadband customer growth we had 144 000 new FiOS internet additions in the quarter and now have 5.4 million subscribers representing penetration of 37%.
In HSI or DSL we had a net loss of 117 000 customers.
Net broadband subscribers were a positive 27 000 marking an improvement over the past two quarters.<br><br>Looking at the full year broadband revenue growth improved by 3.1% in spite of the fact that subscriber growth slowed to 1.4%.
This revenue growth was driven by customers buying up in speed taking advantage of our FiOS quantum offers.
I would also attribute some of the improvement to our corporate fiber migration initiative.<br><br>In FiOS video we added 134 000 in the quarter bringing our total to 4.7 million which is 33% penetration.
Our FiOS customer growth in the fourth quarter was very good.
In fact net adds were greater than the second and third quarters.
This was in spite of the significant disruption caused by the Sandy restoral efforts.
In contrast to the second half of 2011 we decided to aggressively meet the increased demand for our FiOS services by authorizing overtime so that we did not lose customers by making them wait until we caught up to the backlog.<br><br>I would also add that our residential connection trends continued to improve.
During the fourth quarter we lost 156 000 retail residential connections representing a 6.2% decline year over year compared with the loss of 183 000 or 7.3% at this time last year.<br><br>Let’s move to our enterprise markets next on slide 14.
In the fourth quarter global enterprise revenue declined $83 million or 2.1% all of which was due to lower CPE sales.
Strategic services which comprised 54% of global enterprise revenue totaled $2.1 billion and were up 5.3%.<br><br>During the quarter we continued to see delays in new contracts and investment decisions as enterprises exercise caution with regard to the fiscal cliff potential tax reform and other government policy changes.
This uncertainty created a wait and see approach that clearly impacted new business in 2012.
We continue to believe that as these factors evolve companies will be in a better position to make decisions about their capital commitments.
We remain hopeful that enterprises will renew their investing activities in 2013.<br><br>Moving next to global wholesale.
Fourth quarter revenues declined $168 million or 8.7% year over year due primarily to continued declines in transport services.
Again our strategy is to exit unprofitable routes and contracts and better position the business in the fiber based Ethernet data services space as customers with Special Access transition from DS1s and DS3s.<br><br>Let’s conclude our wire line review on slide 15.
In the second half of the year we saw some improvement in topline performance.
In the fourth quarter wire line revenue was down 1.5% repressing an 80 basis improvement over the rate of decline in the third quarter.
Sequentially revenue increased $76 million or 0.8%.
in terms of cost as I said earlier this was a very challenging quarter and far from normal when you factor in the additional resources devoted to Sandy restoral efforts and to quickly catching up on our FiOS order backlog.<br><br>On the labor front after 400 days of negotiations with our unions we have a fair and balanced three year agreement that is good for our employees as well as a positive for the business.<br><br>In the consumer and mass markets business we are confident that several factors will lead to an increasing contribution to wire line profitability in 2013.
These include our focus on driving FiOS revenue growth and improving our operating and capital efficiency the continued success of our copper to fiber migration initiative and the benefits of the new union contracts.<br><br>In enterprise we still see uncertainty around the debt ceiling deficit reduction and tax reform.
We are all looking at the same published reports about international economic growth which point to continued pressure on enterprise spending.
We believe the actions we are taking will ultimately improve our cost structure and are the right steps to improving wire line profitability.
In the short term we expect similar performance within our enterprise unit.
If some of the uncertainty is dealt with by Washington than things can improve throughout 2013.
I would like to turn now to slide 16 to discuss our cash flow results and how we further strengthened our balance sheet in 2012.<br><br>Our free cash flow in the fourth quarter and full year was once again a combination of strong cash generation and disciplined capital spending.
For the year cash flow from operations grew 5.7% to $31.5 billion and free cash flow increased to $15.3 billion up 13%.
Capital expenditures for 2012 totaled $16.2 billion down about $70 million from last year.
Capital expenditures for 2012 totaled $16.2 billion down about $70 million from last year.
This includes about $135 million in capital related to Sandy.<br><br>Our capital efficiency improved ending the year at 14%.
With the heavier investments to transform our business largely behind us we expect our CapEx to revenue ratio which is already at a historical low to continue to decline based on disciplined capital spending and sustainable revenue growth.<br><br>In wireless CapEx in the fourth quarter increased to $2.8 billion and we finished the year at $8.9 billion down 1.3%.
In 2012 we allocated more capital to 4G LTE to expand coverage.
In the fourth quarter we also pre-positioned additional capacity in certain key markets.
As more customers choose 4G LTE smartphones and devices we expect that the continued migration of data traffic from 3G to our lower cost 4G LTE network will drive further improvements in operating and capital efficiency in 2013 and beyond.<br><br>In wireline capital spending was $1.7 billion in the quarter to finish the year at $6.3 billion down about 1%.
Our balance sheet and credit metrics remained very strong.
Total debt of $52 billion was down more than $3 billion or 5.7% from the end of last year.
We ended the year with the net debt of $48.9 billion and our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was about 1.3 times.
In December we closed the pension annuitization transaction with prudential transferring $7.5 billion of management retiree pension benefit obligations by purchasing the group annuity contract.
This transaction was part of an overall pension de-risking strategy which will reduce our exposure to funding and income statement volatility caused by changes in investment returns discount rates and longevity risks.<br><br>This transaction also provides us with additional financial flexibility.
In the fourth quarter we contributed an additional $1.7 billion in pension funding to end the year at $3.5 billion which is in line with what I indicated on our third quarter call.
Again we do not expect any cash funding requirement for qualified pensions in 2013 and based on our current plan assumptions we expect contribution requirements in future years to be lower as a result of this transaction.<br><br>Let's move now to our summary slide.
We enter 2013 with great confidence in our ability to take advantage of the market opportunities we see in our key strategic growth areas.
We have great momentum in wireless and we expect to build on that strength driving further penetration of devices and extending our leadership position in 4G LTE.
In FiOS we expect to drive higher penetration in existing markets and continue to differentiate ourselves with our superior internet and video services.
In the enterprise space we will continue to aggressively market our strategic services demonstrating to customers that we have a unique set of capabilities to combine solutions around the network data center security and cloud infrastructure.<br><br>In terms of our cost structure we will continue to drive operating efficiencies across and throughout the entire business.
We continue to dedicate resources to examine all cost and processes including product rationalization services provisioning back office operations and systems.
Our ability to effectively execute and capture these incremental revenue opportunities and operating efficiencies will result in increased profitability higher cash flows and improved earnings growth in 2013 and beyond.
Lowe and I have challenged our business leaders to build on the strong foundation we have accelerate the momentum we have achieved improve our investment returns and drive significant shareholder value.<br><br>With that let’s open it up for our first question please.
maybe quick question on wireless margins and maybe just a clarification on your outlook comments.
I think you said you can get back to margins that we saw in the second and third quarter of this year which was in the 49% to 50% range.
Was that a full year comment or was that a 2Q and 3Q of ’13 comment? And if it’s full year that’s 200 to 300 basis points of margin expansion in wireless.
Just help us think through the drivers of that.
And then second on capital spending we’ve heard three of the industry peers in wireless talk about an upwards bias to CapEx as we head into 2013.
At the same time that was a view of a full year range and I think that if you look at just the fundamentals of the business I would say that our fundamentals are more sound than they were a year ago.
If you look at this business it grew EBITDA $3.2 billion or 12% and that was with a historical growth rate in the fourth quarter of this year.
We gained significant market share that will carry us into next year with 5 million net adds.
If you look at our ARPA growth our ARPA growth was over $9 from a year ago and that’s on a base of 35 million accounts.
So the fundamentals of this business are extremely strong and I have no doubt that we will return to a margin progression of where we left the second and third quarter.<br><br>On the CapEx side of the house the guidance I would give for ’13 is no different than what I’ve said before which is we will be flat.
That is in addition with all of the 4G LTE continued buildup that we have.
I would tell you that we ended this year slightly higher than we probably had expected in midyear but there were two factors for that.
Number one hurricane Sandy or Superstorm Sandy created us to incur $135 million of additional wire line capital.
But in addition we also proactively spent another $300 million on the wireless side to preposition our AWS spectrum that we originally planned for 2013 and we advanced that into 2012 and that was because we were coming off such a strong third quarter and we knew that by investing in the growth for the fourth quarter that we were going to need to preposition this.
So in essence we’ve actually forward advanced some ’13 capital.
So I’m very confident that we will not end up where some others will be and that our CapEx will be flat for ’13.
Thanks for the question Jason.
Brad can you help us break into that 49% to 50%? Last year you talked about $2 billion cost cutting effort.
Can you help us quantify that? And then second as that leads into earnings per share growth good question.
So first on the 49% to 50% as you know over the last three years we’ve taken $5 billion worth of cost structure out of wireless.
We have another $2 billion of target for this year and we already have all those initiatives established for the $2 billion.
Now that will happen over the course of the year.
So we will continue on that.
In addition we’ve also launched our Verizon Lean Six Sigma which will also contribute to the reduction of the cost structure within wireless.
But also I would extend that that as we consolidate and I’ll use finance as an example as we consolidate the finance organization to the middle we will actually take cost structure out of wireless but we will also implement Verizon Lean Six Sigma around the entire organization and reduce the full cost of finance across the board.<br><br>So again some of the corporate Verizon Lean Six Sigma will also help reduce the cost structures of the individual units including wireless and wire line.
As far as EPS guidance I’m not going to give specific guidance today but what I would tell you is that if you look at the first three quarters of 2012 our approximate growth was 15% year-over-year.
And as I said Fran you have given some good guidance on the wireless margins and some of the consolidated.
Maybe a little bit on wireline you are going through this VES repositioning can you talk about the progress there and maybe give us a sense for what kind of wireline margin improvement we can see on year-over-year basis? And then secondly with the CapEx intensity coming down and some of the stuff you have done to de-risk the pension we have talked a little bit about buybacks and maybe for coming part of the discussion by the end of year I guess I want to take a few minutes on this one because obviously there is two separate components to this.
One is the consumer side and then one is the enterprise side.
So let’s start with the consumer.
Obviously for the fourth quarter I mean consumer and wireline was significantly impacted by Sandy.
And as I said on my opening remarks it was almost impossible for us to really calculate the impact that that had.<br><br>But putting that aside I think the strength of the platforms that we have build on will continue to drive the profit of wireline.
So first copper-to-FiOS migrations we completed 223 000 this year.
Our target is 300 000 next year.
This is significant reducing the cost structure of wireline from a repair perspective and as I said in opening remarks 11% reduction for the first time in repair load from truck roll.
So our strategy is working.<br><br>Than we talk about the strategic pricing around FiOS.
And I said a year ago that we were not disciplined around our price-ups and we started that in 2012 and as I said coming out of the third quarter we already had our strategy laid out for ’13.
So that strategy will continue to help offset the content cost increase.
In addition FiOS quantum.
If you look at what we have done over this last year we have really solidified the strategy around speed.
And what we are seeing as customers migrate from that copper and even current customers are buying up in the speeds because they realize the quality products that we have.<br><br>Then if you go and look at just the union agreements and some of the pension things we did this all culminates on the consumer side.
Now having said that there are other things that we are investing in that put a little pressure on the wireline margin.
So for instance Redbox.
Redbox was a startup this year.
We incurred startup costs like any startup company would.
That put pressure on us in the back half of this year.
Hughes we acquired Hughes.
It was a loss company.
We are building back that company.
They are doing an excellent job on acquiring contracts.
We have one that we signed recently that will launch in the second and third quarter of this year.
So we are actually adding 200 to 250 people in that business to get ready for that new auto company that we signed this agreement with in Telematics.<br><br>So again continuing to grow on that platform.
VDMS is also another startup that we incurred some operating expense with no associated revenue.
So when you look at Redbox Hughes and VDMS these will all start to contribute to topline in wireline for 2013 but again probably not much in the profit area.
Because they are all startups and I would think that in 2014 these will really start to contribute to the overall profit.
On the Verizon enterprise side obviously my view on this one is the best that we can hope for is flat at this time because of all the uncertainty.<br><br>Now as I said in my opening remarks if we can get rid of some of the uncertainty around debt ceiling and deficit reduction and especially tax reform I think this will open up for companies to start to invest again.
But given that in this time of repair we are actually building out the platforms with Terremark and again Hughes and Verizon digital media services.
So I think we are making all the right strategic moves around the product rationalization.
So having all this combined I am confident that we can improve our profit in wireline 2013 over 2012.<br><br>Now on the share buyback.
Given everything that we have done this year I think we are exiting this year with a really strong balance sheet.
We executed on our pension annuitization.
We declined our debt by over $3 billion.
We also strengthened our balance sheet from other means as well.
So when you take this all in combination and the strong cash flow performance on a year over year basis even with the growth that we did in the fourth quarter and the impact of Sandy I originally stated that share buyback would be something that we would do at the end of 2013.
I am in a position now that we could do share box at any point in time right now but I would call it an opportunistic time.
So if the opportunity presents itself in our share price then I would contemplate buying back shares.
So hopefully that answers the question John.<br> John.
Brad we have a shelf registration of 100 million shares.
So there’s no issue there.
On the second one let me come back to that.
On the 700 megahertz we have completed some deals to date.
On the side of the licenses side we closed our deal with T-Mobile back in the third quarter of this year on the swaps.
We previously agreed to sell 35 out of 77 700megahertz licenses on the B block side to 10 different purchasers and some of them are still pending at the FCC.
We also agreed to sell four out of our 700megahertz A block licenses to four different purchasers and two of them are still pending at the FCC.
So we continue to look at suitable deals for the others and if they come through the process this will then take that through the regulatory process.<br>So at this point that’s where we’re at.
On the cash taxes as I’ve said before this community kept questioning about the increase in my cash tax in 2013 and I kept telling everyone that we had plans in place that even with bonus deprecation going away that would not happen.
Now with bonus deprecation there Simon.
Brad just the typical Verizon Wireless net debt question if we could just get an update on that balance at the end of the year.
And then secondly as you think about the wireless margin guidance that you laid out for 2013 can you talk a little bit more about what’s going on with the device replacement rate which can add some sensitivity to the margins.
Do you think that will be a faster rate of replacement Mike.
So on the net debt side of the house Verizon Wireless is $9.3 billion net debt.
They actually have about $1.4 billion worth of debt maturing in ’13 which we at this point plan to retire.
Just on the overall handsets this really goes I think to the question of the upgrade rate and what do we see.
And again as we saw this year as I said we would see an uptick in upgrades going into the fourth quarter from the third quarter but we would be down from a year ago and that’s exactly what happened.
I would say that ’13 is probably a flat year on an upgrade basis to this year.
So I don’t see any incremental increase but it’s the quality of the upgrades that we’re really focused in on and if you look at the progress of basic phones this year we had a significant amount of basic phone upgrades.
So if you look at a year ago a year ago we moved about in the fourth quarter 3.5 million basic phones.
That was cut by 50% this year.<br><br>So you’re still going to have a population that only wants a basic phone riding off of the 3G network but what we’re seeing is as the prices of the smartphones have decreased there’s an incremental population that are coming into that smartphone category and again every single one of these adds and every single one of these upgrades except for a few who are willing to pay full price for the smartphone are moving into our share price plan.
And as I said 23% of our accounts now are in share pricing and you can see what’s happening from a revenue increase perspective and a device attachment perspective.
So again I think that from a pure upgrade perspective it’s flat Fran just not to beat a dead horse here on the full year guide but I am assuming that you are anticipating iPhone refresh at some point in time.
And then just thinking about as we look forward over the next year or so smartphone penetration obviously getting close to 60% now.
How do we start to offset the impact of this smart to smart migration on margins generally? And I know you talked about 4G driving some additional revenue opportunity there but how should we think about the margins longer-term as we get smartphone penetration reaching let’s call it 80% Mike.
I guess the way I look at this is is that there is more to this than just the smartphone category.
So if you look at again of what we are doing with shared and the increase of the revenue and the attachment of other devices.
So if you look at our internet device category including the tablets we had one of our strongest quarters from another device attachment rate than we have had in the past.
This all drives the revenue.
So when you think about the increase in the service revenue side because this does not go with just concentrating on the subsidy of the handset.
Because the subsidy of the handset although higher than a basic phone would be these drive incremental revenues from usage perspective.
And especially when you have a platform like the LTE with the speed and the video consumption that people are using and the buying up of the tiers that they have.<br><br>And then you think about machine to machine and the opportunities for mobile payments and other solutions that are going to ride off of the Hughes platform.
We have many many opportunity to offset the subsidy with the incremental revenue.
Now having said that on the subsidy side of the house you can see that the price of the handsets continued to decline.
We now have the Windows platform in our mix and we saw some steady albeit slow increase in some of the uptake of that platform.
But as we get more and more platforms in the mix and now we have RIM out there again there is going to be incremental competition there will be subsidy reduction as there was in the basic phone history in the ecosystem.<br><br>So again this is full management of the P&amp;L.
This is just not locking in one item on the P&amp;L.
And if you can culminate that with the $5 billion reduction in cost and then the other $2 billion that we have this year again the early adaptors Mike obviously were in fact dilutive.
But it wasn’t as much as we had expected.
And if you look at the ARPA growth that we are generating now CapEx flat and tackling the pension.
Looks like you have a lot more free cash flow this year.
You have talked about the buyback but you have also mentioned some cloud video wireline growth initiatives potentially raising the dividend.
Or would you say powder for Vodafone or other wireless M&amp;A.
How do you balance all those out and should we think about a little bit of all of them or the focus on the buyback I think you answered the question.
All encompassing in your answer.
But look I think it’s all of the above.
Again I think we left this year in a very very good solid place.
We bought spectrum last year we bought Hughes last year we made some significant investments.
We continue to invest in that Redbox platform the Hughes platform as we acquired it.
We continue to build out the Terremark asset that we acquired over a year and half ago.
So it’s all of the above.
And share buyback dividend policy deleveraging is all encompassed in that strategy.
So again if I could.
On wireline can you help us think about the impact to wireline margins of the copper migration over time? Texas is one of the oldest FiOS markets and I believe you’ve said in the past that video and internet penetrations there are in the high 40% range.
You already had the more favorable union contract down there more forward looking state regulatory environment.
Are margins in Texas better by a few basis points or are they on order of magnitude better? Any framing you could do in that area would be great.
And then on the wireless side BlackBerry 10 launches this quarter.
You just mentioned it.
It’s reported to be another expensive device.
When you look at your BlackBerry base is there any chance at all that this handset has an unusual impact to the first quarter or second quarter that could impede the improvement you outlined? And if you can indulge me I’m not going to specifically speak to any individual market of FiOS.
It’s not a good thing for me to do that at this point in time.
But what I would tell you is that it is the highest penetration of our market.
It is a very profitable market.
So given where we are in Texas which was the first market we launched we know that the rest of the markets can achieve those types of penetration rates which we’re in the 50%.
So there’s no stopping us from a penetration rate and as we continue and you saw this quarter we had a higher demand for the FiOS product and some of that was because quite honestly Superstorm Sandy showed the reliability of the fiber network even in this type of a catastrophe.
Copper does not mix with water.
Fiber optics doesn’t care if it’s in water.<br><br>So again the strength of how we build our reliable network with generator backup and all sorts of things just speaks to the popularity of this product.
So I think that we’re in a good position going into ’13 overall with FiOS and I will tell you that year over year FiOS continues to become more of a profitable product for us.
So I’ll answer it that way.
On the BlackBerry 10 launch given your question no I don’t anticipate any unusual item that would cause me to come off of the statement that I made earlier.
This is just yet another platform.
We are hoping that the platform is successful.
We have very loyal BlackBerry users in our base and we’ll see how that goes.
But all in we now have four operating platforms coming into the mix and again as I said before Fran on the upper growth that you saw could you give us a sense as to the mix of the drivers in the growth year over year? Is it the volume coming from the Tablets connected devices and people coming from handsets to smartphones? Or with respect to the upgrade in the data plans has that become a driver that you can quantify and grab onto yet? And then I guess the second question would be as you have talked about starting to harvest the 3G network capacity it's a combination of a lot of things.
Obviously it's the – as we said based on our view of when we launched this plan we expected the uptake in the data consumption based on the LTE network and the speeds that that network can deliver.
So as people consume more they will buy up in the tiers.
And then in addition it's the device attachment and this one is really considerable for us because that's why we developed the plan we did and you can attach up to 10 devices.
And what we're seeing is as we said in the outset here if 30% of these customers coming to us on smartphones are new to Verizon and what we see is that they come in at the low end of the devices onto the share price plan and over a period of six-months they almost double the amount of devices that they put on the plan.
So the device attachment whether it's a tablet or a MiFi card we launched a camera in the fourth quarter so all these things will contribute to the attachment which will drive usage and then hence drives the ARPA increase.
And then on to 3G network yes we stopped investing in that network.
We obviously continued to sell the 3G iPhones on that network which were very successful in the fourth quarter.
So again we managed this network very closely.
But look when will we see you adding more LTE capacity kind of through the lining up of spectrum as I said this year we pre-positioned $300 million of capital to start positioning that AWS spectrum for capacity around LTE in some of the major markets.
And that really was a result of our exiting the third quarter and the growth that we saw.
And knowing that we were strategically going into and investing in the growth of the fourth quarter.
So given all that we did pre-position the AWS spectrum and we will continue to do that as needed.
So we are in a very good position with our LTE network.
We are in a very good position with our license holding.
So no issues at this point.<br><br>Okay.
So thank you everyone.
Let me just close this real quick.
First just thank you for joining the call today but also I wanted to just say thank you to John for his diligence here in the IR role and I wish him luck in his new mergers and acquisition Fran.
And Brad Good morning and welcome to the Verizon first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
[Operator instructions.]  It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Michael Stefanski senior vice president investor relations.
Thanks operator.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
This is Mike Stefanski and I’m here with our chief financial officer Fran Shammo.
Thank you for joining us this morning Before we get started let me remind you that our earnings release financial and operating information the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website.
Replays and a transcript of this call will be available on our website later today.
I would also like to draw your attention to our safe harbor statement.
Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties.
Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon’s filings with the SEC which are also available on our website.
This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also available on our website.
I would also point out that the quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.
There were no special items of a nonoperational nature included in our reported earnings results for the first quarter of either this year or last.
With that I will now turn the call over to Fran.
Thanks Mike.
Good morning everyone.
We entered this year with strong momentum and we are seeing our strategic investments driving an excellent start to 2013.
Earnings per share of $0.68 was up 15.3%.
Our investment returns are improving and becoming more evident in our results.
Our strategic focus is on building networks and platforms as the foundation for innovation and growth.
By investing consistently in these networks and platforms we have positioned the business to take advantage of growth opportunities in the rapidly evolving markets for broadband video and cloud services.
Our investments in 4G LTE enables us to provide a superior customer experience in wireless broadband and video.
Our investments in fiber to the home enable a leading broadband and video experience to FiOS customers through higher speeds and capacity.
Our investments in global IP managed services cloud computing security and machine-to-machine enable our ability to serve the complex needs of large enterprise customers around the globe.
Our operational focus is on execution which means performing the basics every day.
In short our approach is to meet customer needs by delivering products and services in the most efficient and effective way.
Our implementation of Share Everything plans is simplifying decisions for customers making it easier to upgrade and add devices while eliminating the need for separate data plans for each device.
Our FiOS Quantum offer and copper to fiber migration initiative are examples of improving service quality and increasing operational efficiency.
In enterprise our ongoing retooling efforts which include product rationalization and systems consolidation will result in a more efficient and effective service delivery model.
Verizon’s Lean Six Sigma principles are being adopted across the entire business and we are beginning to see efficiency gains in many areas including customer care supply chain and system support to name a few.
As we move through the year successful execution in our key strategic areas will drive incremental revenue and better operating efficiency resulting in continued growth in free cash flows and earnings.
Let me shift now to our first quarter performance hitting a few highlights.
Our wireless results were strong striking a favorable balance between growth and profitability.
We added 677 000 retail postpaid connections up 35% year over year.
Service revenue grew 8.6% and our EBITDA service margin was 50.4% which was right in line with our guidance.
FiOS also had a strong quarter of customer and revenue growth.
We added 188 000 new FiOS internet subscribers and had 169 000 FiOS video additions.
FiOS revenue grew 15.1% and RPU was over $150 a month.
In global enterprise strategic services revenue continued to increase up 6% year over year.
Free cash flows in the first quarter increased $1.5 billion or 64% on the strength of higher cash from operations.
Now let’s take a brief look at consolidated results starting with slide four.
Total operating revenue grew 4.2% sustaining our solid top line growth performance.
For the quarter the increase in consolidated revenues coupled with effective cost management resulted in 19.8% growth in operating income.
Consolidated EBITDA also grew at a double digit rate up 12.1% while our EBITDA margin expanded by 240 basis points to 35.1%.
Now let’s move into a review of the segments starting with wireless on slide five.
Our consistent investment in wireless drives our leadership in network quality reliability and the overall customer experience.
Five years ago we committed to 4G LTE as the next generation technology and we have taken all the necessary steps to take advantage of this growth opportunity.
These actions include securing necessary spectrum allocating capital to deploy 4G LTE nationwide fostering a robust device and application ecosystem and introducing a revolutionary pricing framework with our Share Everything plans for consumer and small business.
Once again through solid execution of our strategy the wireless results speak for themselves.
We also knew that by taking advantage of the unique market growth opportunities in the fourth quarter we would quickly realize the benefit.
Our first quarter results prove this out.
Total wireless revenues grew to $19.5 billion and now represent two-thirds of Verizon’s consolidated revenue.
Our strong momentum in terms of connections growth and smartphone penetration drove first quarter service revenue growth of 8.6%.
As expected profitability rebounded quickly following the high quality device activations of the fourth quarter.
EBITDA grew to $8.4 billion up 18.1% and our industry leading EBITDA service margins expanded to 50.4% up 410 basis points over the first quarter of 2012.
Let’s now turn to a more detailed look at wireless revenue and accounts beginning on slide six.
The increase in service revenue was driven by a combination of factors including customer growth and increased smartphone penetration.
The popularity and simplicity of our Share Everything plans is driving increases in both the revenue and number of devices per account.
During the first quarter retail postpaid service revenue per account or RPA grew to more than $150 per month an increase of 6.9%.
Connections per account increased to 2.67 up 5.1%.
In just nine months 30% of our postpaid account base is on a Share Everything plan.
Customers have quickly recognized the value of shared data across multiple devices.
In late January we also introduced Share Everything plans for small business which allow for up to 25 devices per account.
In terms of the number of postpaid accounts our Share Everything plans have resulted in consolidation of accounts.
Let’s take a closer look at connections growth on slide seven.
In the first quarter we added 677 000 new retail postpaid connections an increase of 35.1% year over year.
Last year postpaid connections increase sequentially each quarter and we expect a similar pattern of accelerating growth in 2013.
We have an industry leading 98.9 million retail connections with 93.2 million postpaid and 5.7 million prepaid.
Our postpaid connections represent 34.9 million accounts.
Postpaid gross adds in the first quarter totaled 3.5 million up 15.6% year over year.
In terms of upgrades 6.7% of our postpaid connections base upgraded during the quarter.
Our churn metrics continue to be market leading.
Retail postpaid churn was 1.01%.
During the quarter we implemented several process improvements in the area of bad debt collections related to our Lean Six Sigma initiative.
These improvements resulted in an acceleration of involuntary churn which we expect will be lower in future periods.
Now let’s turn to slide eight and take a look at device sales and our progress in 4G LTE.
In the first quarter we activated 9.7 million postpaid devices 87% of which were phones.
Smartphone activations totaled 7.2 million and 68% of these were 4G LTE.
We activated 4 million iPhones.
Half of them are 4G LTE and the other half were 3G.
Our smartphone penetration increased to 61% up from 58% at the end of last year.
A key point of differentiation for us and incremental revenue is the improved mix of gross adds and upgrades within our smartphone activations.
In the first quarter gross adds or new to Verizon customers represented about 28% of the total smartphone activations much higher than the 22-24% range we reported in the first half of 2012.
We also have incremental revenue opportunities with upgrades.
About 38% of customers upgrading this quarter were buying a smartphone for the first time.
I would also note that when customers upgrade from a 3G to a 4G LTE smartphone they are usually in a shared data plan enabling higher usage and additional device adoption which ultimately drives higher revenue per account.
Customer adoption of 4G LTE continues to accelerate.
At the end of the first quarter 4G LTE phones and devices represented more than 28% of total retail postpaid connections.
40% of smartphones and 63% of internet devices are now 4G LTE and 54% of our total data traffic is already on the 4G LTE network which is 5 times more efficient than 3G.
In terms of 4G LTE geographic coverage we are by far the market leader.
Today our 4G LTE service is available in 491 markets covering 287 million [pops] representing more than 95% of our 3G coverage.
We will continue to leverage our advantage and expect that our 4G LTE footprint will effectively match our 3G network by the end of the second quarter.
Network quality and reliability will continue to be the hallmarks of the Verizon brand and we will continue to invest to maintain our leadership position.
Let’s move next to our wireline segment starting on slide nine.
In wireline our investments in FiOS global IP security cloud and machine-to-machine provide powerful platforms to deliver the services and leading edge applications and solutions that our customers are looking for.
These services are increasingly efficient and in the long run will help improve our cost structure.
In the consumer and mass markets business we continue to see positive signs highlighted by 15.1% FiOS revenue growth this quarter.
In addition to increasing FiOS penetration we are focused on improving our operating and capital efficiency.
We are also making good progress in our copper to fiber migration program.
In enterprise we continue to see mixed performance.
Our strategic service revenue grew 6% but declines in core services like voice and data transport as well as CPE more than offset the increase.
In terms of wireline profitability first quarter EBITDA was $2.1 billion and the margin was 21.4% roughly flat sequentially if we set aside the impacts of Sandy in the fourth quarter.
As we have previously indicated we do not expect much in the way of total wireline EBITDA margin expansion in 2013.
However the continued strong performance of FiOS our copper to fiber initiative and the benefits of new union contracts give us confidence that consumer and mass markets will contribute positively to wireline profit this year.
In enterprise while growth in strategic services continued to improve the revenue mix secular declines in both retail and wholesale voice and data transport services are putting pressure on wireline profitability.
We believe that our ongoing product rationalization efforts and other retooling efforts will ultimately improve our cost structure and result in a fundamentally stronger enterprise business.
Looking ahead we are positioned to improve the wireline margin in 2014 based on better contributions from our strategic investments which include Redbox Instant Hughes Telematics and Verizon Digital Media Services.
Let’s take a closer look at the revenue components starting with mass markets on slide 10.
FiOS is the foundation of our growth strategy in the consumer market and it shows in our first quarter results.
Consumer revenues grew 4.3% driven by increased FiOS revenue which now represents 69% of consumer revenue.
FiOS is also the key driver of growth in overall consumer RPU which increased to more than $107 per month up 9.5%.
FiOS RPU remains at over $150 per month and two-thirds of our FiOS consumer customers are triple play with voice internet and video services.
As I highlighted earlier FiOS customer growth was strong in the first quarter.
In terms of broadband we had 188 000 new FiOS internet additions in the quarter and now have 5.6 million subscribers representing penetration of 38%.
Overall net broadband subscribers were a positive 99 000 marking a sharp improvement over the past several quarters.
In FiOS video we added 169 000 subscribers in the quarter bringing our total to 4.9 million which is 34% penetration.
We continue to make steady progress upgrading copper services to fiber increasing the number of upgrades each quarter.
We are off to a strong start converting about 83 000 homes in the first quarter with a target of 300 000 for the year.
This network evolution initiative is important for us as we systematically reduce our dependence on older technologies throughout the business.
Aside from the obvious expense benefits and improvements in customer satisfaction the conversion to fiber also provides customers the opportunity to purchase FiOS services which could result in additional RPU over time.
Another positive result in the quarter was the steady improvement in our residential connection trends.
Retail residential connections declined by 5.6% compared with a loss of 6.8% at this time last year.
Let’s move to our enterprise markets next on slide 11.
In the first quarter global enterprise revenue declined $99 million or 2.6%.
CPE sales which we are deemphasizing represented all of the decrease.
Strategic services which comprise 56% of global enterprise revenue totaled $2.1 billion up 6%.
Continued declines in voice and data transport offsets this increase.
In the enterprise market we continue to work through economic challenges.
We still see cautious behavior on the part of many enterprise customers in terms of new contracts and investment decisions.
As we move through the year we are hopeful that companies will be able to be more definitive about capital commitments and will renew their investing activities.
Moving next to global wholesale first quarter revenues declined $134 million or 7.2% due primarily to continued declines in transport services.
Again our strategy is to better monetize our global IP network by driving a more efficient migration to next generation Ethernet services.
I would like to turn now to slide 12 to discuss our cash flow results.
Our free cash flow in the first quarter was very strong.
Cash flows from operations grew $1.6 billion or 26.4% and free cash flow increased to $3.9 billion.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were $3.6 billion essentially flat year over year.
We remain focused on improving investment returns and capital efficiency and we are expecting our capex to revenue ratio for the full year to decline.
In wireless capital spending totaled $2 billion up 5.7%.
Within our overall spending outlook we expect to allocate more capital to 4G LTE to further expand coverage and add capacity.
With regard to capacity we have started to incur some capital costs associated with the AWS spectrum which we expect to deploy in our network later in the year.
In wireline capital spending was $1.4 billion in the quarter down 6.7%.
Our balance sheet and credit metrics remain very strong.
Our total debt at the end of the first quarter was $52.9 billion.
Net debt was $47.4 billion and our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was about 1.2x.
Let’s summarize on slide 13.
As we stated earlier we entered 2013 with great confidence.
Our strategic investments and operational execution drove a solid financial start to the year.
We expect to sustain this positive momentum throughout 2013 and into 2014.
We are committed to driving shareholder value by executing our plans and improving the fundamentals of the business.
Our focus is to capture incremental revenue growth in our key strategic areas.
At the same time we will continue to transform our service delivery and cost structures through the Verizon Lean Six Sigma initiative.
As always we will continue to invest in a disciplined manner ensuring that we have the necessary platforms for innovation and growth.
Through this strategy and execution model we expect to drive cash flow and earnings growth.
Before I turn the call back to Mike I want to take a moment to say a word about the tragedy that has unfolded this week around the Boston Marathon.
Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families.
This is a very tough situation for so many people.
We also want to thank our employees in the Boston area for their work and support of emergency personnel and law enforcement authorities.
Verizon of course will continue to do whatever it can to help.
With that I will turn the call over to Mike for your questions.
[Operator instructions.]  Our first question will come from Jason Armstrong of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
First on wireless a very good margin results this quarter.
I guess when we think about the prior guide you had given 49-50% margins for the year I think a lot of people sort of worry that we’ll have good margins in the first three quarters of the year only to give a lot of it back in the fourth quarter.
I guess related to this last week you announced the intention to lengthen the handset upgrade cycle to 24 months.
A couple of questions.
Was that contemplated in this guidance?  And then just given the timing of that which I think kicks in in September do you think that sort of derisks the fourth quarter relative to historical experiencing? And the second question I guess I’ll take a crack at the Vodafone question.
There’s been obviously a lot more noise recently on the future of that relationship.
And I’m just wondering is this the press and the analyst community really getting ahead of themselves?  Or has there been some sort of change related to the partners’ desire and urgency to find a resolution? On the 49-50% if you recall back to what I said in the first quarter we said that we expected Verizon Wireless for the full year to be within the range of 49-50%.
And obviously when I do something like that I understand exactly what’s on our plate of strategy for the year.
And we had said before that we look at all of our policies and procedures on a normal basis and this was one of those policies that we knew we were going to change.
And as you said it’s going to become effective September 1 and in essence what it does is it lessens our upgrade cycle from the -4 month from contract equal to the contract so a full 24 months to be eligible for that upgrade.
So I think that’s all factored in with what I have said coming into this year and that’s why I was confident with the 49-50% on the full year basis.
And then with respect to Vodafone obviously we made a public announcement on April 2 and I would reference all of you back to that announcement.
Of course as we’ve always said before we’re very interested in acquiring the 45% stake in Verizon Wireless that we don’t already own.
I will say though that there has been a lot of speculation about the tax consequences of a purchase of this 45% and we are extremely confident that such a transaction could be accomplished in a manner that is very tax-efficient and would not result in a tax on the gain in that stake.
So beyond that I don’t think there’s really much else to say.
So at that I’ll pass it on to the next question.
Our next question will come from Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
On the enterprise just any impact or comments on sequestration?  Is that having any material impact?  Some of the comments you made about cautious spending.
And then onto quad play.
We’ve seen both in Europe and also with some of the comments out of Dish this week around focusing on bundling wireless with video and with other wireline products.
You talk a lot about your triple play.
You have the cable JV.
Can you just give us your broader thoughts on bundling wireless more closely with some of the FiOS and other products either now or down the road? On the enterprise side of the house we’re seeing a lot of issues around enterprise.
I think the sequestering has probably hit more of the government and state side of the house than it has the overall enterprise side of the house.
But on a much broader perspective around enterprise obviously we believe that our platforms are there.
We’re having good growth in the areas of our cloud and our network strategies our security is still growing at a good pace.
But obviously the voice and the data continue to offset this and I don’t really see a change there given the fact that we really have not seen a consistent and steady economic growth profile.
We have not seen a consistent and steady employment rate.
I still think there’s some uncertainty out there around what’s going to happen with tax reform.
So again I believe that most companies are still in this cost cutting mode really not investing but trying to get their P&amp;L squared away.
So until the overall macroeconomics change I think we’re going to be in this situation at least for the near term here.
And then on the quad play obviously we believe that the quad play is extremely important.
That’s why we entered into the cable agreement that we did a year ago with the cross-selling agreements and also with the joint innovation that we have agreed to do.
Because I think that this is very important because as we look at how do we innovate and bring content in and outside of the home on a seamless perspective this is where that all comes into play.
And I think Dish has just again supported what we knew a year ago which was this strategy is the right strategy.
The other thing I’ll say is that with this it also supports the fact that you have a foreign investor who wants to come into the North American wireless footprint.
You have a domestic investor who wants to gain share in the wireless footprint.
This again just confirms our overall belief that the wireless industry still has a lot of growth left in it both on the quad play and with the innovation of machine-to-machine and 4G LTE.
So I think that’s where we sit with the quad play.
Our next question will come from John Hodulik of UBS.
Your line is open.
First on the wireline side the wholesale revenue decline improved nicely for the last couple of quarters.
Is that really a function of the repositioning work you guys have done in VES?  Or are there some other more macro trends driving that?  And can we expect to see that improvement continue? And then over in wireless it looks like as I look at your prepaid and reseller numbers it looks like prepaid was a little bit lighter than we thought despite a price cut.
And then you had stronger reseller numbers.
Can you talk a little bit about your strategy in both of those categories and what we can expect going forward? On the wholesale side of the house I would tell you I believe that this is timing.
And I think that if I had to predict what was going to happen the rest of the year I think we’re going to be around this 8-9% decline in wholesale.
And it is mainly around again the drive behind volumes of voice and data.
And again it points back to everything I talked about in enterprise because most of the volume that we get on wholesale are people who resell that to enterprise customers and other customers for voice and data.
So I agree with you.
It has slowed a bit but I think we’re probably in a period of it’s not going to improve here in the future.
As far as prepaid goes I guess a couple of things here.
As I’ve said before in the prepaid market we will look for niches to play that really complement what we want to be as a carrier in the prepaid market.
And I’ve said before we’re not going to chase the low end on our retail side of the house but we will look for niches where we can make impact.
And I guess I would say this is the eighth consecutive quarter of a net add positive on our prepaid in retail.
As you said we launched new pricing here in the first quarter.
It was mid first quarter so we don’t really have the full impact of the quarter here on what we launched as smartphone pricing which was the first time we’d launched a smartphone pricing on prepaid.
We also launched a $35 plan to really go after the basic phone category with a little bit of data in that.
So you’re seeing us become I wouldn’t say over aggressive but maybe a little bit more aggressive.
But again it ties into our network strategy of using the 3G network and keeping that network full because it contributes a lot of margin.
The other thing is as I’ve said in the past we will always play in both arenas between retail and wholesale depending upon what drives the most value for Verizon shareholders.
And you saw this quarter through a relationship that we have with one of our resellers with the distribution agreement to Walmart we added 1 million net subs on that side of the house which was really all prepaid<sub> </sub>subs.
So again balancing out where we think the most favorable financial position is for us to get the greatest return.
That’s how you’ll see us going forward in the prepaid market.
Our next question will come from Michael Rollins of Citi Investment Research.
Your line is open.
First if you could just give us an update on the ending balance for Verizon Wireless net debt?  And then secondly when we look at some of the numbers in the wireless business it looks like the postpaid customer device replacement cycle is lengthening.
And I was curious if you could talk about the reasons for that.
Do you think it’s because of the policy changes that you’ve made over the last couple of years?  Are you seeing any resistance from customers upgrading to the new shared plans that you’ve laid out?  Just curious for some of your thoughts on that subject.
Verizon Wireless debt gross is $10 billion cash is $3.9 billion for a net of $6.2 billion.
On the device lineup obviously if you look at what we have done over the last two years what we plan to do coming here in the fourth quarter if you look at the ecosystem of these devices these are highly subsidized devices and we have to make sure that we position the value to Verizon and the value to our customer on an equal basis.
So what you’ve seen over the last two years in modifying the policies to make sure that we can still offer a great lineup of phones at a reasonable price to our consumers for a two-year service contract you’re seeing us lengthen that cycle.
And to be honest we’re not seeing a lot of resistance here.
You have to understand that a lot of the upgrades were proactive by us not by our customers.
And so we’re really just repositioning that the date of an upgrade is two years now instead of say 20 months.
We don’t anticipate that there will be a lot of dissatisfaction here but we have to watch this carefully.
Obviously we want to give our customers the most choice that we possibly can.
We think we have a great lineup.
We have a lot of choices.
On the shared side of the house we are not seeing resistance on people converting to shared.
Actually we’re much ahead of what our expectations were.
We have 30% of our base now on shared.
And that continues to go up.
Also within the shared plan we’re seeing exactly what we thought would happen.
As people move to 4G and you heard that 68% of our upgrades are to 4G that’s driving usage which is also driving up the higher tiers driving the revenue profile.
And also the connected devices.
As we said the last call we see that when people come in as a new Verizon customer their actual device attachment is much lower than our base but over that 9 to 12 months we see them attaching more devices and moving up to where the average of our overall base is.
So we continue to see that happening and it’s all about customer service as well not just when an upgrade period is.
So I think we’re hitting on all cylinders here but we have to watch this carefully.
Our next question comes from Mike McCormack of Nomura.
Your line is open.
Just wanted to circle back on the upgrade policy and your thoughts as the year progresses.
There’s been a view that we should have some of your competitors getting a little bit healthier towards the back half of the year.
Does that set up to be another differentiator for those other carriers? And then secondly on the upgrade policy changes is there a risk as the customer matures past the 20 months that the ETF is low enough that it could create unnecessary churn for you guys? And then lastly just thinking about data usage and obviously it’s an important thing for RPU revenue growth how much of that if you can measure it is being offloaded onto the wifi network onto the wireline data side to maybe either try to save data usage on the wireless side or to get a better customer experience? On the upgrade policy obviously these decisions from us are done based on a lot of customer input and customer feedback and focus groups.
So we don’t just jump into these things.
You saw us do that when we implemented the $30 upgrade fee.
So we’re very diligent in how we do this.
As far as customer contracts and ETFs we’ve managed this since we started with service agreements and 24 months.
So this is nothing new and look I think we compete on a number of fronts.
It’s not just on a service contract or pricing.
We compete on our outstanding network.
So when you look at our network and reliability the 4G network and our superiority I think if you compare our network with others that you have to say we’re the leader in the market as far as reach as far as consistency of performance.
So when you go to connect that data session it connects you get the speed that we advertise on a consistent basis.
You look at the Share Everything plan and the options we have there and the flexibility within that plan.
If you look at the number of our device lineups.
So all of this including our great customer service from our customer service centers this all goes into why our churn is the lowest in the industry and will continue to be the lowest in the industry.
And this is what we work for every single day.
It’s tackling the basics as I said in my opening comments.
So again we manage all of this.
As far as data and offload to wifi obviously customers offload to wifi but what we see is again because of the superiority of our network and because of the authentication that our network has we actually want people to offload when they’re in their homes but when they’re out in public areas they want to stay on our network because it is authenticated it is secure and a lot of wifi networks outside the home are not secure.
So I think that plays into that as well.
But we do think that wifi is a good offload in certain circumstances but not all.
Just quickly on cost of service and wireless it had a meaningful step down which obviously is a credit to your cost savings opportunities.
How should we look at that progressing through the year? Well I think that all hinges on the upgrade right?  So when we came into this year I said that our upgrades would be flat with a year ago.
So it’s obviously sequentially.
I think that’s what you’re looking at.
It is a considerable decrease because of the volume that we had in the fourth quarter versus the first quarter.
Our next question comes from Brett Feldman with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
You noted the importance of keeping a close eye on the level of subsidies that you incur and that’s why you made further adjustments to the upgrade policies.
So if we look at the policies now people have to keep their phone for the duration of their contract.
They have an upgrade fee.
It seems like you’ve done just about everything you can do from a policy standpoint to keep subsidies in line.
Are there any other steps you can take as a carrier to work on that even further?  For example are you rethinking whether you should be favoring lower subsidized phones in the stores?  Or is there even anything you can do to influence the actual cost of manufacturing a phone so that it’s lower for you? So around this again I go back to if you look at the history of basic phones and what happened over time again I think the smartphone category will also follow this where as the competition and innovation as new phones come to market - obviously Blackberry is coming back into the market we have the Windows phone - so as more ecosystem comes here and more competition happens the cost of these phones will eventually start to decrease.
And we’ve already seen some of this competition happen in certain categories with the decrease of smartphones.
We’ve launched smartphones in prepaid.
That gives you an indication that there’s some low end smartphones out there because we really don’t subsidize much on the prepaid product.
So again as the ecosystem builds I think this will follow what historically the basic phone did over the last 10 years that that was maturing.
And that’s what’s going to impact the lower subsidies over time.
And of course then as I’ve said in the past as we move into our 4G and our VoLTE launch which we’ll start to have VoLTE capable phones we think by the end of this year.
We’ll commercially launch early next year.
And as we do that and our footprint of 4G LTE really covers that of the 3G network and the experiences there then we’ll start to take the CDMA chip out of those handsets.
So again that will impact subsidy going forward.
So I think we have a good roadmap here that says our strategy we believe that we can start to reduce subsidy over a length of two to three years.
So I think that’s what our position is.
And was there any experience that you had with feature phones where you found that you had the ability to push the ecosystem?  In other words do you think there’s any opportunity to start driving customers towards smartphones that already have lower subsidies?  Or do you really have to wait for the market to want those devices? I think this goes back to customer satisfaction and as I said before we don’t incent our front lines to sell one phone over another.
This is a customer choice.
Because again the worst thing that can happen to us is force a phone into a customer’s hands and within our return policy of 14 days worry free they can come back and return that phone for dissatisfaction for any reason.
And we give them a new phone.
That is not a good financial model.
So we want the customer when they walk out the door to have the right phone in their hand whatever phone they choose and to make sure that they’re educated to use that phone.
So that’s what’s more important to us instead of locking them into a low subsidy handset that they’re going to be dissatisfied with.
And just a point of clarification because you mentioned about eventually taking CDMA chips out of devices what is the commitment to CDMA?  And what would be the timeframe for getting there? I think that’s going to come into play in ’14 so we’ll keep you posted on that.
But the strategy is to eventually within these 4G LTE devices to remove that chip at some point in time.
So I think that’s where we’re at.
So we see our first device that doesn’t necessarily have the CDMA chip next year?  Not all devices? That’s correct.
Our next question comes from David Barden of Bank of America.
Your line is open.
</strong>it’s probably going to become clear I think through the quarter that you guys took another healthy chunk of the wireless market share for net add growth.
Can you talk a little bit about as we think about the year unfolding where this net add growth is coming from in terms of tablets home zone the share that you’re winning from the iDEN network shutdown over at Sprint just so we can kind of think about how the market is unfolding and where the competitive tangent points are? And then I guess second on the cash flow front it looks like you guys didn’t actually pay taxes this quarter which was a big tailwind for that number.
Can you give us a little bit more color about how you think that cash tax line is going to contribute or not to the cash flow picture for the rest of the year? First on the all categories growth as I said in my prepared remarks last year when we came into the first quarter I said that we would look at continuing to accelerate our growth through the year and I think we’re on plan to do that again this year.
As far as the mix of growth here it’s really evenly spread among all devices.
So we had net gains in smartphone customers we had net gains in our home phone connect product.
We had net gains in fusion tablets internet devices prepay.
So it’s across the gamut that we are driving on every single device.
So it’s not one device over another but we think that we will continue to grow each individual category on a net positive basis.
As far as cash flow goes there’s all kinds of things that happen in cash taxes during the quarter.
We pay a lot of property tax a lot of sales tax.
There is a federal estimated tax that’s in the first quarter.
So again I think that’s included in maybe some separate line items that you’re not seeing.
But we did make some cash tax payments in the first quarter.
Our next question comes from Jennifer Fritzsche of Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
I just wanted to ask on spectrum it was recently reported that the DOJ supports restricting the purchase of broadcast spectrum by limiting those current holders of low band spectrum such as yourself.
There isn’t a lot of spectrum in my view coming over the next two years.
You’re clearly in a good position with AWS but how do you handle spectrum needs and how will this impact your capex or small cell deployments going forward.
I think it’s an important question so let’s just back up a second.
So the FCC right now is targeting 2014 for the auctions and is working to develop the rules around the auction process.
Obviously we’re working very closely with the FCC and the broadcasters and others in the industry to develop the rules around these auctions and make them successful.
Really our basis is we want to ensure that the FCC develops and implements the auctions in a way that allows Verizon Wireless to bid for and acquire the additional spectrum that it needs to run its business.
As you know the FCC they need to maximize the amount of spectrum available for mobile broadband services and ensure the auction is designed to encourage the broadcasters themselves to participate.
These rules that restrict companies from bidding and give other companies priority could actually cause the auction to fail.
So as you know the DOJ recently this week weighed in on a theoretical concern about the market foreclosure.
We believe the concern is really around some who buy the spectrum to keep others from buying the spectrum and I think if you look at history that has not shown itself.
Verizon has never purchased spectrum for that reason.
We buy it to use it and I think our track record is we really efficiently use the spectrum that we have.
And I think the secondary market is another important one here because we’ve proved that the secondary market worked in 2012 by divesting some of the spectrum that we felt others could use more appropriately than we could.
So I think this all goes into that but I think that’s our view around the DOJ and we will work closely with the FCC in order to make that spectrum available for the people who need it.
So as far as capex and utilizing what we need obviously we’re in a very good position with spectrum and as I said before when spectrum comes up whether it’s in an auction or for sale on the open market you have to be opportunistic because it normally only comes up at one time and we’re very selective on what we go after.
But we have a very long term strategy with spectrum and we’ll be opportunistic if the climate presents itself.
Our next question comes from Tom Seitz of Jefferies.
Your line is open.
A couple of question related to the copper fiber migration.
First it looks like you’re a little bit ahead of plan.
Is that just a function of fixing Sandy issues immediately or do you think you can keep or even accelerate this pace?  Second you disclosed I think 83 000 forced conversions.
Can you give us some idea of how many took just the voice product versus how many stepped up? Just a couple of things here.
Around the copper to fiber migration obviously with this one we did have very very good process this quarter in converting these migrations.
And some of this obviously had to do with some of the Sandy impact.
I would also tell you though that this is really a technology change and we need to really move to the new technologies.
From a regulatory standpoint if you look at it the FCC has longstanding rules in place that permit copper retirement.
Now I know some of the CLECs have urged the FCC to suspend or change these rules but we need to encourage our customers and others to move to the new technologies in order to provide our customers with the best solutions that they have.
And for many of our customers that service is best delivered over fiber or even maybe a wireless network.
And in some of these situations we’re not going to rebuild the copper.
It doesn’t make financial sense to lay fiber to some of these remote areas.
So wireless may be a better solution here and we’re working with the regulatory agencies on that.
And within Pennsylvania a year ago we solved some of the internet provisioning via LTE instead of fiber.
So I think the regulatory bodies are very open to it.
We continue to work with them.
But as far as the copper to fiber migration for the first quarter I think we’re off to a great start and 300 000 is our target.
That doesn’t mean we can’t exceed that but we will continue to migrate our customers to the new technology.
As far as the breakdown between voice and internet we really don’t despair there because what’s happening is as we move people over to fiber they’re coming onto the Quantum product.
27% of our base now is on Quantum and what we’re seeing is they’re buying up in the tiers because once they get that 15-30 MB tier and that’s what’s helping to drive the stellar revenue performance in the consumer market of 4.3% which is the highest I think we’ve ever had at this point compared to some of the prior years and consistent with what we performed in last year.
So I think we’re on a good path here to continue to produce solid wireline consumer revenue growth with our strategy that we laid out.
Our last question for today comes from Tim Horan of Oppenheimer.
Your line is open.
Around wireless I had a few questions.
As part of moving to the 24-month cycle I would assume there’s a lot of variables to go with that but it would seem to me that the shared data plans are helping that a lot.
And maybe can you talk a little bit about the data usage on those shared data plans and the growth rate or any other metrics you can provide? And then also on the phones it just seems like the phones are getting a lot better.
I know in my own family we used to break the phones after 12 months and now they seem to be lasting a lot longer.
Was that part of the thinking? And just related to that both personally and professionally are you flexible at all in the 24-month upgrades?  Will you provide 20-month upgrades for high quality customers who are getting maybe a lower subsidy phone?  How rigid is that? On the 24-month cycle obviously our policies are our policies and obviously I’ll let Verizon Wireless deal with any exceptions to those policies at the front line because again we want to make sure the customers are satisfied.
But the policy is the policy and we want to make sure that the front line sticks to our policies.
But obviously again as you know there’s always an exception to the rule here and there.
As far as really thinking this through I think these are highly subsidized phones.
These are miniature computers walking around.
It really goes to when you look at the demographics of the customers who upgrade demographics play a big role in this.
I mean the younger generation wants to update to the day.
Some others will hold their phones for three even four years.
So it really is a vast difference and we’re just trying to conform everything to a consistent policy so that it makes sense for the customer and it makes sense for us.
As far as 4G LTE and data usage as we’ve said 54% of our data now is going over the LTE network so that should tell you something about the usage of our 4G LTE customers.
Beyond that we’re not going to disclose any individual statistics around data usage.
I want to thank everyone for joining us today and operator we can conclude the call.
Good morning and welcome to the Verizon second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
[Operator instructions.] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Michael Stefanski senior vice president investor relations.
Thanks operator.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
This is Mike Stefanski and I’m here with our chief financial officer Fran Shammo.
Thank you for joining us this morning Before we get started let me remind you that our earnings release financial and operating information the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website.
Replays and a transcript of this call will be available on our website later today.
I would also like to draw your attention to our safe harbor statement.
Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties.
Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon’s filings with the SEC which are also available on our website.
This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also available on our website.
Before Fran takes you through the details I would like to make you aware of a non-operational item included in the quarterly results.
For the second quarter we reported earnings of $0.78 per share on a GAAP basis.
These results include $147 million after tax or $0.05 for the favorable effect of an interim actuarial remeasurement associated with one of our pension plans due to settlement accounting.
The noncash credits were due primarily to an increase in the discount rate assumption used to determine our current pension liability.
On an adjusted basis EPS was $0.73 compared with $0.64 a year ago.
Our discussion of consolidated results and growth rates in this presentation exclude the effect of the nonoperational gain.
In addition the quarterly growth rates disclosed in this presentation are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.
With that I will now turn the call over to Fran.
Thanks Mike.
Good morning everyone.
Our strategic investments in 4G LTE FiOS global IP and cloud services continue to drive strong operating performance.
We are executing well in these key growth areas.
Overall consistent top line growth along a strong focus on cost efficiency and profitably resulted in double-digit growth in operating income and earnings per share in the second quarter.
In fact we have posted double digit earnings growth in five of the last six quarters.
Second quarter adjusted EPS was $0.73 up 14.1%.
Year to date adjusted earnings per share were $1.41 representing 14.6% growth.
As you know our strategy focus is on building networks and platforms as the foundation for innovation and growth.
Underpinning our success is the consistent investment in these networks and platforms which position us to take advantage of growth opportunities in the rapidly evolving wireless and wireline markets for broadband video and cloud services.
Operationally we are focused on increasing value by delivering products and services to customers in the most efficient and effective way possible.
In wireless our Share Everything plans are a great example.
We have simplified decisions for customers making it easy to add new devices and manage their shared data usage.
Our FiOS Quantum offer where customers can upgrade broadband speeds themselves is another example of improving service quality and increasing operational efficiency.
Throughout the entire business there are many examples where Verizon Lean Six Sigma principles are being adopted and we are realizing efficiency gains in a number of areas including customer care supply chain and system support.
As we move through the year we are confident that successful execution in our key strategic areas will continue to drive incremental revenue and promote operating efficiency resulting in sustainable growth in free cash flow and earnings.
Let me shift now to our second quarter performance hitting a few highlights.
Our wireless results were strong once again effectively balancing growth and profitability.
We added 941 000 retail post-paid connections up nearly 40% sequentially.
Service revenue grew more than 8% EBITDA growth was up double digits and our EBITDA service margin was 49.8% solidly within our annual margin guidance.
We also had a strong quarter of customer and revenue growth in FiOS.
Revenues were up nearly 15% and we added 161 000 new subscribers in FiOS internet and 140 000 in FiOS video roughly 20% more than we added in the second quarter last year.
In global enterprise strategic services revenue grew 4.8%.
Our consistent operating performance together with disciplined capital spending is driving higher free cash flow.
Through the first half of the year free cash flow increased by more than 20% resulting in an improving return on investment profile for the entire business.
Now let’s take a brief look at consolidated results starting with slide four.
Total operating revenue grew 4.3% sustaining our solid top line growth performance.
For the quarter the increase in consolidated revenues coupled with effective cost management resulted in 11.8% growth in adjusted operating income.
On an adjusted basis consolidated EBITDA increased to $10.5 billion and our EBITDA margin expanded by 90 basis points to 35.1%.
Now let’s move into a review of the segments starting with wireless on slide five.
We have emphasized that consistent investment in wireless drives our leadership in network quality reliability and the overall customer experience.
Our commitment to 4G LTE covers a wide range of activities including the securing of necessary spectrum the allocation and deployment of capital for both coverage and capacity our leadership in fostering a robust device and application ecosystem and the success of our Share Everything plans in driving device adoption and stimulating usage.
Once again our second quarter wireless results demonstrate the effective execution of this strategy.
Total wireless revenues grew to $20 billion representing 67% of Verizon’s consolidated revenue.
We sustained strong service revenue growth of 8.3% making it the third consecutive quarter of growth in excess of 8%.
EBITDA increased to $8.5 billion and our EBITDA service margin expanded by 80 basis points year over year to 49.8% representing another very strong quarter of growth and profitably.
Let’s now turn to a more detailed look at wireless revenue per account beginning on slide six.
Service revenue growth continues to be driven by increasing connections smartphone penetration gains and data usage.
The simplicity and value proposition of our Share Everything plans is driving device adoption and stimulating higher usage resulting in increases in both the number of devices and revenue per account.
During the second quarter retail post-paid service revenue per account or RPA grew 6.4% to $152.50 per month.
We have 35 million post-paid accounts and the average connection per account increased to 2.7 up 5.5%.
Our Share Everything plans have been very successful.
The plans have been available since June 28 of last year and customer adoption has been very strong.
In just one year more than 36% of our post-paid accounts are on a Share Everything plan.
The value proposition is simple and straightforward and customers increasingly recognize the value of shared data across multiple devices.
Let’s take a closer look at connections growth on slide 7.
As I highlighted earlier we added 941 000 new retail post-paid connections up from 677 000 in the first quarter and about 6% higher than a year ago.
We also added 97 000 retail prepaid connections so our retail net connections totaled just over 1 million in the quarter.
As I stated on our last earnings call we expect to continue to see sequential quarterly net add improvement in 2013.
Total retail connections topped the 100 million mark in the quarter.
Our industry-leading post-paid base stood at 94.3 million and we have more than 5.8 million prepaid connections.
Our connections growth was driven by another strong quarter of gross additions.
Postpaid gross adds of 3.6 million were up 14.2% year over year.
The number of customer upgrades also increased by sequentially and year over year with a postpaid upgrade rate of 7% for the quarter.
We continue to expect that our annual upgrade rate will be about the same as last year.
Our upgrades remain high quality with 36% of customers purchasing a smartphone for the first time.
We also maintained a high quality mix within our postpaid net adds.
We added 472 000 in the phone category.
Of this total 974 000 were smartphones with the balance representing the decline in basic phones.
We added 371 000 internet devices including tablets.
The balance of just below 100 000 included Home Phone Connect Home Fusion and other connected devices.
Our churn metrics continue to be market-leading.
Retail postpaid churn was 0.93%.
The sequential improvement was due primarily to an expected reduction in involuntary churn as discussed coming out of the first quarter.
Next let’s turn to slide eight and take a look at device sales and our progress in 4G LTE.
Postpaid device activations totaled 10.1 million in the quarter representing both a sequential and year over year increase.
We had a high quality device mix once again with 88% of the activations being phones.
Smartphone activations totaled 7.5 million and 72% of them were 4G LTE.
The smartphone mix was fairly balanced; roughly 51% of the activations were iPhones.
Our smartphone penetration continued to improve and we ended the quarter at over 64%.
We had another strong quarter for internet devices.
Activations of these devices which include mobile hotspots jet packs and tablets topped 1 million again this quarter.
Adoption of 4G LTE smartphones and devices continued to accelerate.
One-third of our retail postpaid connections are now 4G LTE compared to just 12% one year ago.
46% of our smartphones and more than two-thirds of our internet devices are 4G LTE.
Currently 59% of our total data traffic is carried on the 4G LTE network which is five times more efficient than the 3G network.
In terms of geographic coverage we now cover 500 U.S.
markets with 4G LTE and have essentially completed our buildout by matching our 3G footprint.
Our LTE network covers more than 99% of our 3G footprint and when you include our rural America partners LTE is available to about 301 million across the nation.
Throughout the rest of this year we will continue to invest adding capacity to our existing 4G coverage ensuring that customers are receiving the quality and consistent reliability that they expect from our network and devices.
I will cover our capital spending outlook in more detail during our discussion of cash flows.
Let’s move next to our wireline segment starting on slide nine.
Our wireline investments and platforms such as FiOS global IP security cloud services and machine-to-machine enable us to deliver the services and leading-edge applications and solutions that customers want.
As these services scale they will become increasingly efficient and will help improve our cost structure in the long run.
Total wireline revenues decreased 2% in the second quarter as growth in FiOS and strategic services were offset by softer global enterprise and wholesale revenue from legacy transport services and CPE.
In terms of wireline segment margin second quarter EBITDA increased to $2.2 billion and the margin was 22.2% up 80 basis points sequentially.
We continue to believe we can improve the wireline segment margin in 2014.
Let’s take a closer look at the revenue components starting on slide 10.
In the consumer and mass markets business we continue to see positive signs highlighted by sustained FiOS revenue growth.
Consumer revenues grew 4.7% driven by FiOS which now represents 71% of consumer revenue.
Our overall consumer monthly RPU increased 9.4% to more than $109 and we sustained a blended FiOS RPU at over $150 per month.
Two-thirds of our FiOS customers are triple play which have a higher amount of recurring revenue per month.
As I highlighted earlier we had a good quarter of FiOS customer growth.
In terms of broadband we had 161 000 new FiOS internet additions and now have 5.8 million subscribers representing penetration of 39%.
Overall net broadband subscribers were a positive 45 000.
In FiOS video we added 140 000 new subscribers in the quarter bringing our total to 5 million which is over 34% penetration.
In addition to the customer growth and increased penetration we are also gaining traction with our FiOS Quantum offers for higher broadband speeds.
Sales of our FiOS internet product at speeds in excess of 50 MB per second increased during the quarter and existing customers continue to buy up in the speed.
At the end of the quarter one-third of FiOS internet customers subscribed to Quantum with speeds ranging from 50 to 300 MB per second.
We continue to make steady progress with copper migrations increasing the number of service upgrades each quarter.
During the second quarter we converted more than 86 000 customers.
Through the first half our total was 169 000 so we are more than halfway to our target of 300 000 for the year.
This network evolution initiative is important for us as we reduce our dependency on older technologies.
Aside from the maintenance expense savings and improvements in customer satisfaction conversions to fiber also provide customers the opportunity to purchase FiOS services which could result in additional RPU over time.
Another positive result in the quarter was the steady improvement in our residential connection trends.
Retail residential connections declined by 5.2% compared with a loss of 6.6% at this time last year.
We expect that continued strength of FiOS the copper migration initiative and the benefits of labor contracts and work rule flexibility will have a positive effect on wireline profitably this year.
Let’s move to our enterprise markets next on slide 11.
In the second quarter global enterprise revenue declined $184 million or 4.8%.
CPE sales which were down 34% year over year represented $162 million of the decrease.
Excluding the decline in CPE global enterprise revenue was down less than 1% on a year over year basis.
Strategic services which now comprise 57% of enterprise revenue grew 4.8%.
In the second quarter the continued decline in legacy transport services more than offset the growth in strategic services.
We continue to work through economic challenges in the enterprise space.
Many of our customers are focused on improving their cost structure which can result in reduced services with us.
In addition many customers continue to be cautious regarding new investment decisions.
Moving next to global wholesale quarterly revenues declined $141 million or 7.7% due primarily to continued declines in the transport services.
Again our strategy is to better monetize our global IP and fiber network by driving a more efficient migration to next-generation Ethernet services.
In terms of profitably while growth in the enterprise strategic services is improving the revenue mix volume declines in the rest of global enterprise and wholesale continue to put pressure on wireline margins.
Through our Verizon Lean Six Sigma program we are making good progress in our cost restructuring programs and retooling efforts which we believe will improve our operating efficiency.
Let’s turn to slide 12 for a discussion of our cash flow results.
Our cash generation remained very strong.
For the first half of this year cash flows from operations increased by 12%.
Free cash flow was up by more than 21%.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $4 billion and were $7.6 billion year to date up 2.5%.
Wireless capital spending in the second quarter totaled $2.3 billion.
Through the first half wireless capex totaled $4.3 billion 8.6% higher than last year.
As I noted earlier we have essentially completed our initial LTE buildout by matching our 3G footprint.
Throughout the rest of the year we will continue to invest by adding capacity to our existing coverage as we begin to deploy AWS spectrum throughout the network.
In wireline capital expenditures totaled $1.5 billion in the quarter and $2.9 billion year to date which was down 5.9% from last year.
Strong connections growth driven by 4G LTE and our Share Everything plans has resulted in higher demand forecasts and a need for increased capital investment.
As such we are increasing our full year capital spending outlook from flat at $16.2 billion to between $16.4 billion and $16.6 billion.
We remain focused on improving investment returns and capital efficiency and we continue to expect our capex to revenue ratio for the full year to improve even with the additional investments in 4G LTE.
Our balance sheet and credit metrics remain very strong.
Total debt at the end of the second quarter was just under $50 billion and our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was about 1.2x.
Let’s summarize on slide 13.
Our second quarter results showed consistently good performance in the key strategic growth areas so at the halfway point the key year to date financial and operating metrics are strong: consolidated revenue growth of 4.2%; operating income up 15.6%; adjusted earnings of $1.41 per share representing 14.6% growth.
In wireless service revenue growth up a very strong 8.4%; average revenue per account up 6.7%; retail post-paid additions of 1.6 million up 16.5%; EBITDA growth of 14% and an EBITDA service margin of 50.1%.
We are on track to deliver on our 49-50% margin guidance for the full year.
In wireline consumer revenue growth of 4.5% driven by FiOS growth of nearly 15% 349 000 subscribers in FiOS internet and 309 000 in FiOS video.
We are on track to meet our 600 000-plus FiOS customer growth target.
Free cash flow generation is up better than 20% year over year and our balance sheet remains very strong.
All in all a very good first half.
We are now focused on continuing the momentum which should result in a strong second half of the year.
With that I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.
Fran thank you.
Operator we’re now ready to take questions.
[Operator instructions.] Our first question comes from Phil Cusick with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead with your question.
Two around wireless.
First you talked about sequential improvements in adds in the third and fourth quarter.
Given that Sprint’s not going to be seeding a number of items into the market in what’s traditionally not a strong third quarter can you help us see why you’re more confident there? And second can you talk about how you expect margins to track through the remainder of this year? Given the upgrade comment you just made about being flat year over year that’s a little higher than I would have thought given the commentary or the change for the fourth quarter.
Can you just talk about those? On the sequential third and fourth quarter it’s similar to the trend that we saw last year when coming out of the first and second quarter.
We said we would sequentially continue to see growth in the third and fourth quarter.
And again this is around what we expect the roadmap to be on additional device launches throughout the third and fourth quarter.
But the momentum that we have and you see that momentum coming out of second quarter and I’ll talk more to that in a second when we get to the margins we continue to see this high-quality subscriber coming onto the wireless 4G LTE network and we don’t see that changing at this point.
From a Sprint and porting ratio I won’t get into specific individual carriers but again pretty consistently positive with all carriers from a porting ratio perspective.
On the margin side of the house I think we have to put this in perspective.
Again we are fully engaged on the 49-50% guidance that I gave to you in the beginning of the year and if you look at the first half of the year at 50.1% for the first half and coming out of this quarter at 49.8%.
And I think you have to look at what’s behind that.
So if you look at on a year over year basis just between the quarters we improved our profitably by 80 basis points.
In that if you look at that we moved 7.5 million smartphones.
1.6 million of that was additional smartphones over last year.
And then if you just look at the 4G devices we moved 3.1 million more 4G devices this year than we did a year ago.
And in that if you look at the service revenue growth of 8.3% that’s up 100 basis points over where we were last year.
So you can see the quality of these adds and if you take what we added in the quarter of nets with 472 000 net phone it’s a pretty good indication of what we’re going to drive from a margin perspective.
And then if you look at the network side of this with 4G LTE we now have 33% of our customers on that network 36% of our customers on shared.
We had a growth of 5.5% in the connected devices.
And I’ve said that our growth is really dependent on two things.
Number one the 4G LTE network and as people move over there the usage of stimulation drives them into higher tiers from a tier perspective on the shared plan.
And then of course the second piece is as they get on the shared plan they start to connect all these additional devices.
And you can see that with the continued momentum of our internet category and some other things that will be coming to market similar to what we did in the fourth quarter last year as for the camera.
So combination of all these.
I am very confident that we will continue on the margin track that we set out at the beginning of the year.
Our next question comes from Jason Armstrong of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Fran there’s been obviously some buzz around Verizon investing in Canada.
Maybe you can help us in terms of where you see the opportunity.
Is this tied into a roaming footprint? Is it tied to maybe serving your own enterprise customer base? Or is there sort of a consumer retail presence you might have in mind tied to this? And then second question on FiOS very good volumes in what’s generally a seasonally weak quarter.
You talked about the 600 plus that it seems like you have the opportunity to maybe be meaningfully above that result.
I’m just wondering does what you’ve seen in Q2 give you the opportunity to maybe set the bar higher for the year? On Canada again let me emphasize this is really an exploratory exercise for us.
As you all know they’ve delayed their spectrum auction until January.
So again we continue to just look at this market.
I think it’s everything that you said that we’re kind of looking at.
If you look at the population of Canada about 70% of that population is between Toronto and Quebec.
That’s adjacent to the Verizon Wireless properties.
Again if you look at the spectrum auction it mirrors up exactly what we launched here in the United States on the 700 MHz contiguous footprint.
So we’re looking at all these but obviously some of the cautions here are the regulatory environment a foreign investor coming into the Canadian market and what does that mean? So again cautiously looking at it.
Not ready to make any announcements today.
And we continue to explore and have discussions but at this point it’s just really an exploratory exercise.
On the FiOS volumes again we put a lot of effort around continuing the superiority of the FiOS product.
Bobby and his team have done a great job in and around the FiOS Quantum offers and a lot of the stimulated growth that we see here is coming from the Quantum offers that we have and upgrading those Quantum offers to the 50 and 70 MB per second services.
So look we set a target for 600 000.
Obviously if we can exceed that target we will.
We’re ahead of that target but I will tell you that the third quarter again is always a seasonally challenging quarter for us from a move perspective.
So let’s continue on the track that we are and if we can overdeliver we will but we’ve set the target at 600 000.
Our next question comes from John Hodulik of UBS.
Your line is open.
Quick question on wireline and then wireless.
First on wireline Fran in your prepared remarks you mentioned a couple of issues driving wireline profitability that you see some improvement.
I just wanted to see if I could get a little clarification.
Are you talking about the year over year trends for the whole year? Or just the second half? If you could just sort of fill in the blanks for us that would be great.
And then secondly on the wireless capex increase can you just talk a little bit about what’s driving that? Is it more 4G devices? Is it more usage per device? Or is it maybe the competitive environment and what you’re seeing from other carriers? What’s really driving the change there? So in wireline possibility look we set the bar that said our margin would be flat year over year.
Going into obviously in the third and fourth quarters of last year compared to what we think we can do this year and coming out of the second quarter I think in the back half I have to improve the profitability in order to continue to make that guidance that we set out at the beginning of the year that said we would be flat on a margin basis.
So I think we’re on course to do that and mathematically the profit has to get better in the back half of the year in order to sustain that guidance.
As far as the capex on wireless goes there’s a couple of things here that are driving this.
If you look at over the last three quarters the growth that we’ve had the number of 4G devices we’ve moved and if you look at just the first half of this year versus the first half of last year we’ve added 6.2 million more 4G devices on the 4G network than we had a year ago from just an overall sale perspective.
So when you look at that and you look at the usage currently 59% of the data traffic is now running on the 4G network.
And that’s being driven by 33% of the base.
So again from just a growth perspective on the top line we’ve always said again that as customers move into shared and they realize the viability and speeds and the consistency of this 4G network it’s going to drive them to use higher usage.
And if you look at where video’s going in the future obviously that’s going to continue the proliferation of the usage on this network.
And we look out two years ahead of where we think our curve is going to be and given the past success we’ve had and the usage patterns and the amount of 4G devices that we’ve already moved and the roadmap that we see coming we need to accelerate really the capacity that we previously thought.
And it’s really all to drive what customers want.
So the incremental investment will more than pay for itself on top line growth from what I see.
And again this is really a shift in our capital discipline between wireline and wireless.
And we’re going to maintain our lead on the most reliable consistent 4G LTE network.
So that’s what’s driving the increase for the capex.
Our next question comes from Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Other wireless service revenues were very strong up about 20% year over year.
I imagine you’ve got some MBNOs and maybe roaming and other stuff.
Perhaps you could just comment on the drivers of that and the sustainability of that.
And then on the enterprise side you talked about continued cautious behavior and cost focus.
Do you see any signs of a second half pickup? I think there’s some better news on unemployment and generally macro trends improving in the second half.
Are you seeing any of that? Or is it pretty much static from your point of view? On the other wireless revenue obviously what’s included in that other wireless revenue is our reseller base.
I don’t like to refer to them as MBNOs.
That’s a bad word for me.
But on the reseller base it’s really driven from the prepaid providers that we have on that side of the business.
And again coming out of this quarter we did a fairly substantial number of net adds there.
And again our prepay strategy is between what we sell on the retail side under our own brand and we had a positive quarter again this quarter with 97 000 net adds.
But we also drive the if you want the lower-end market through resellers and mainly through the relationship with Walmart through Tracfone.
So that drives a lot of volume and that has been good revenue growth for us.
The other things I would tell you though is that in addition to that obviously roaming is in there machine-to-machine which we don’t really talk about much.
We’re gaining a lot of momentum around machine-to-machine and that is driving incremental revenue albeit very low individual unit per subscriber type revenues but again as we start to gain momentum and sell hundreds and hundreds of thousands of these types of devices that’s going to contribute to those revenues and contribute to the overall growth of wireless.
So that’s the component of that.
On the enterprise side look I understand the unemployment is there but it’s not large enough and steady enough to give me confidence that something’s going to turn here in the near future.
And again if you look at the enterprise space mainly what everybody is focused on is cutting their costs.
And obviously when we talk about cutting costs in enterprise they come to us and figure out how they can reduce their spend with Verizon and have us give them solutions that help them reduce their spend.
And of course we’re happy to do that but it does cause some top line pressure.
And also I think again the uncertainty of what’s going on around the government sector is twofold.
Number one a lot of this pressure in enterprise this quarter if you look at the decline of 4.8% over 60% of that was in the government sector for us this quarter.
So there is a big impact from the sequestering activity and the pullback from both the state and local governments and also within the federal government.
As I look forward though the uncertainty around this tax situation and if you think about it we’re now midway through the year it’s highly unlikely that we’ll get tax reform this year.
So again we’re faced with another cliff at the end of the year if congress does not extend the tax provisions that are currently on the books for another year.
So hopefully they’ll do that soon and put some of the uncertainty to rest at least until the next 18 months until we can get to all the difficult issues around tax reform which as you know we have a lot of subgroups working in Washington to help and give suggestions on how to get this done.
But that’s going to take some time.
Again it’s hard for companies to say we’re going to invest in new technologies and new things when we’re not certain what the future of the tax laws hold for the books and records.
So I still don’t think anything’s going to change drastically from where we are.
And as I said before at least from where I sit the best we can hope for is a flat performance and if you take CPE out of the equation this quarter we’re at a [0.8%] decline.
So that’s probably about where we’ll be zero to slightly decline or slightly positive is kind of where I’m at at this point in time.
Our next question comes from Michael Rollins of Citi Investment Research.
Your line is open.
Could you just give us the update on the net debt calculation for Verizon Wireless? And then with respect to the business I think the metrics that you threw out there on the LTE network implies about 1.8 more usage on the LTE network versus the 3G network.
And I was wondering if you could expand on that a little bit more and maybe give us a sense of what the usage trends are for your customers.
And as they move into the shared data plans if you could give us a sense of that kind of stimulus that you’re seeing on the consumption front.
On the update of the net debt for wireless growth that is $10.1 billion and net debt is $9.7 billion.
And as you know we did a distribution at the end of June of a total of $7 billion out of the partnership to both of the owners.
And also just to keep in focus here we have about $1.5 billion of wireless debt coming due in the fourth quarter of this year and another approximately $3.5 billion coming due in the first quarter of next year and we plan to pay that debt off at that point in time.
On the LTE network you’re right on.
Obviously what’s happening is as people come from the 3G network over to the 4G network you can see that incremental usage whether it’s a smartphone or a jet pack or a dongle.
And as they start to share all this data the video consumption is increasing year over year and quarter over quarter.
Others in the industry have put out their projections of usage over the 4G data if you look at some of the things that people have printed and the escalation that the future holds from a data consumption standpoint as we start to move into more symmetry between in the home and out of the home content.
We don’t see that slowing so again yes we do see an incredible jump when someone moves from 3G to 4G and the usage that they have on their smartphones and other devices.
So that’s what’s driving the growth.
Our next question comes from Mike McCormack of Nomura.
Your line is open.
Maybe just a comment on wireless margin.
I know you’ve got the sort of 49-50% expectation for the full year.
Last year the fourth quarter had very high volumes that sort of really dragged down margins a bit.
Are you getting comfort that the new upgrade policy should have a muting impact on that? And then just secondly on FiOS competition maybe just some comments regarding the triple play pricing environment out there and also how well you’re doing in the [MDU] market.
On the wireless margins obviously again we’re very confident around the 49-50%.
As far as the fourth quarter of last year you have to keep in mind it was the first quarter that there was a free iPhone on the Verizon Wireless network and we won’t have that repeated this fourth quarter.
Now that’s not to say that we don’t see increasing volume.
And again I continue to say that we’ll see incremental net adds through the third and into the fourth quarter.
But from a margin perspective if you look at just year over year and the amount of volume we’ve moved we actually ate through all that volume and improved the profitability of this business.
And that goes into managing the entire business.
So from an upgrade policy standpoint some other things that we’ll be launching.
You probably saw Verizon Edge and some other options that we’ll have on payment plans for our customers to acquire a smartphone.
All of these things considered we are very very positive on the margin progress and the profitability progress of Verizon Wireless and the continued growth of Verizon Wireless.
Just on the Edge comment is that something that you’re hearing your customers actually demanding the sort of equipment financing option? If you look back we were the first carrier to launch LTE technology we were the first ones to launch the shared pricing around LTE technology.
We launched in the fourth quarter of last year an installment pay plan on tablets.
That was something that our customers were asking for.
We delivered that to them.
And at that point in time we started to look at it and I said we were looking at other options for smartphones.
We’ve done a lot of focus groups in the last six months.
We’ve done a lot of market research.
And yes our customers are asking for another option.
Twofold: Number one we have a lot of customers on the technology edge that want to be able to upgrade sooner than they would under our historical legacy subsidy model if you will.
And we have other customers who quite honestly don’t want to pay up front for the large cost of the phone.
They’d rather pay over time.
So I’m not going to get into all the details of Verizon Edge I’ll let Wireless do that but that’s something that our customers have been asking for and I think we have a differentiated plan to launch to the market and Verizon Wireless will have more to say on that.
Going back to your other question on triple play and MDU obviously we continue to gain momentum here.
Look this business has always been competitive around the triple play but I think what’s differentiating us right now is the superiority of our product with fiber into the home.
And as you get that fiber into the home I think what customers are realizing and we see this with the copper to fiber migration when they move and they see the speed that they can get on their internet capacity we’re seeing customers upgrade.
And what I’ve said is we’re seeing our legacy copper customers who we have migrated over to the FiOS network they are paying between $10 and $15 more in RPU a month after about 60 days on our network because they’re upgrading freely into that 30 and 50 MB per second.
So that’s really what’s differentiating us in the market.
We will continue to advertise around that superiority and I think that momentum will carry us into the third and fourth quarters.
Just a quick follow up on the FiOS side.
Is there a point at which you guys are going to migrate to an all-IP video network? Obviously we’ve already started that with the copper to fiber migration but that’s going to be quite some time in order to deactivate the copper switches and take all that plant and equipment out.
We have the plans to do that but that’s not something that’s going to be done within this year or next year.
Our next question comes from Jennifer Fritzsche of Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
I did want to ask about prepay.
With AT&amp;T doing [AIO] and now with Leap’s purchase and Cricket in the fold and T-Mobile and Sprint obviously having their own brands is there any interest on your part in launching an independent prepay brand under Verizon separate from Verizon? I think from a prepay perspective we are very happy with how we approach this market between our own prepaid product which obviously you’ve heard me talk about in the past which is just strictly on our 3G network.
We do not offer prepaid on the 4G LTE network.
And as I said we will become more aggressive over time in the prepaid market on that 3G network.
Because again as we look at the 3G versus the 4G and we move 3G customers into our 4G network we want to make sure that we keep that 3G network as full as possible because when you think from an investment return we’re not investing any more in that network and the fuller we can keep that network without detrimenting the service the contribution margin of that network is very very high.
So prepaid is really the pillar of how we will continue to utilize that 3G network so you’ll see us become more aggressive around that when we need to be.
You saw us change some pricing in the last two quarters around prepaid and that has stimulated some growth for us.
And then as I said previously our other path is through resellers for the lower end market.
I don’t see the need at this point to do a secondary brand around the Verizon Wireless network.
We have built our brand around the quality the reliability a superior network.
I don’t think that a secondary brand helps our overall brand at that point.
The other thing I’ll say is I’m not going to comment on anything around the AT&amp;T deal with Leap but I will put to bed the rumors out there that Verizon Wireless may be interested in that asset.
And [hear me] we’re not interested in that asset.
Our next question comes from Brett Feldman with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
I’m not going to ask you about Leap but that deal is spectrum-driven and you guys have indicated that you’re starting to deploy your AWS-1 spectrum and maybe that’s happening a little sooner than we thought although you’re seeing network traffic ramp very quickly.
I’m just curious if you can maybe give us a status update on your spectrum portfolio.
Do you still feel like you have sufficient spectrum to get to the next auction? Do you still see an opportunity to buy spectrum in the market right now from other carriers? And have you started to think about maybe some supplemental solutions for example maybe revisiting wifi as another way to put capacity into your network? Around spectrum we did our AWS deal last year and that put us in a very good spot for our 4G LTE strategy.
We started to launch AWS last year.
We started to preposition that.
We are accelerating the positioning of the AWS based on my comments before around the usage around wireless.
But again we are very comfortable with our spectrum holdings and we are in good shape for three to four years.
Obviously we will participate in the auction with the FCC targeted for 2014 around the broadcast licenses.
That’s something that we will participate in.
But we are not under any spectrum pressure.
If you look at our frequencies and the way we deployed our CDMA spectrum we can actually take very small slivers out of that CDMA spectrum and reallocate that to our 4G LTE spectrum on a needed basis.
And that’s where we get into this balancing act between the 3G network and the 4G network.
But we are very satisfied with our holdings for the next three to four years.
Obviously we’re always opportunistic in spectrum acquisition and we do actually buy spectrum every quarter.
You probably don’t see it because we do little markets here and there.
But look we’re always opportunistic but at this point we’re satisfied and there’s nothing out there at this point other than the auction that we’re concentrating on.
And on wifi anything new there maybe involving your cable partners? From a wifi perspective obviously we always like people to offload when they’re in their home on a secured wifi network.
You’ve heard me talk before about wifi networks are not secure in the public domain.
They have a purpose for us in certain instances around major sporting events and so forth but our customers are very concerned about their privacy and security.
That’s why they ride the LTE network as much as they do.
But we do want offload in certain circumstances and so that does relieve some of the spectrum.
We obviously just from a utilization standpoint for people that are in their homes it’s not good and efficient to run off the LTE network.
They should shift over to their wifi network in their house.
So we do encourage that but again not major massive public wifi is interesting for our customers at least at this point in time from a security standpoint.
Our next question comes from David Barden of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Just following up a little bit on that Fran I was wondering if you could give us a status update on the activities and development that’s going on inside that joint innovation entity with the Comcast group and what progress if any is being made on some of the digital content rights stuff? And then I guess second would be kind of along those lines.
Could you elaborate a little bit on your relationship with NFL and kind of some of the strategy behind that content relationship and if that’s the beginning of a series of potential new moves to acquire content? And if I could just one quick last one I noticed the strategic services sales and enterprise were a a little over 6% growth year over year last quarter.
They kind of slowed down into the 4% zipcode this quarter.
I know overall enterprise has been fairly soft but strategic services has been kind of a core strength.
If you could kind of address that slowdown it would be helpful.
Around our joint venture with the cable companies obviously our [unintelligible] solutions team has been working and defining consumers as to what they want both in the home and outside the home.
And obviously what we’re learning is the 4G LTE network plays a very critical role in that.
We continue to work with them.
We have expanded into 968 Verizon Wireless stores across the U.S.
and we have about 2 500 indirect locations the marketing material and we continue to showcase these types of products.
But I will say that as we continue to work through this it’s hard for Verizon Wireless to sell a cable product outside of the FiOS footprint because it’s new.
And it’s hard for the cable companies to sell a wireless product outside the footprint because of the distribution channels.
So as we continue to work through this we’re gaining some momentum here.
But I think the one last point from all this is we’re obviously very focused on the content rights.
And you come into the NFL agreement and the NFL agreement we think is just a new way of how content rights can be delivered into the wireless segment.
And obviously our strategy is around both type of multicasting a live sporting event and you saw our comments that the 2014 Super Bowl will be a multicast type event to our wireless customers.
So that’s really the breakdown of the wall between what can be delivered in the home and out of the home.
And obviously we now have the rights to take some of the NFL live games out of the home and deliver them on the mobile devices.
From a content standpoint this has to develop obviously over time.
The other point here around content is we are starting to see where we’re getting inquiries from content providers that they may want to pay for their content rather than having the consumer pay.
Those models are still being worked but we’ll see where that goes.
But I look at that as the old 1-800 number where the actual vendor pays for the usage and not the customer.
So we’ll see how that strategy develops over the course of time.
As far as our strategic services go we continue to have good momentum in our strat services as we refine exactly what we’re doing.
We have very good momentum in the Terremark and the Hughes platforms and around our cloud services.
The slowdown quite honestly has been around our PIP exercise and that is growing but it’s more a price compression within the industry.
So we’re facing some of that going forward.
And we knew we were going to face some price compression around PIP and we have to accelerate on the other strategic services to outpace that.
So other than that we have good momentum on strat services.
And just to clarify PIP is? IP-based solutions.
Our next question comes from Tom Seitz of Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Can you just give us an update on your expectations for VoLTE? We’re still on course for VoLTE.
We will start testing and have our first handset in the market at the end of the year.
And then we will probably commercial launch sometime next year.
But again as I’ve said in the past the critical piece for us is that we have to make sure that our 4G LTE coverage footprint from a VoLTE standpoint equates to our 3G footprint because the VoLTE call is not backwards compatible with the CDMA network.
So when you establish a call on VoLTE within our network if you move outside of the LTE network you will have a hard drop on that call.
And obviously that’s not something that our customers would expect from a premium provider like Verizon Wireless.
So we’re taking our time here.
We will thoroughly test this.
But we are on track to commercially launch sometime in the first half of next year.
And then taking that out as I’ve said at the end of next year we are on track to have our first only LTE handset to be able to provide to the marketplace as well.
So we’re still on track with our VoLTE strategy but it is a critical one for us to make sure that we get right when we launch.
So the implication though then is that the 4G network is going to be essentially everywhere that the 3G network is by sometime in the first half of next year? The 4G network is everywhere.
As I said in my opening remarks 99% of the coverage of our 4G network is equivalent to our 3G network.
But now we have to go back in and fill in that capacity to make sure that from a voice call perspective it will hand off because voice is different than the data piece.
So we just have to make sure that a customer who is on 3G today when they go to VoLTE they would see no difference in their service from 3G to 4G.
Could I just follow up on Dave’s question? There were press reports that ESPN was considering subsidizing mobile video consumption.
And you sort of alluded to that as well.
How soon do you think we’ll see a material third party payer model? Is it this year? Is it next? Is it a couple of years out? Can you just sort of frame the timeframe of what you’re thinking about? I think the big barrier right now is how does the content provider get the value of how many people watch their content on a mobile device to be able to go back to their advertisers in order to monetize that content? And right now that’s where the barrier is and we’re working on that.
But until that get solved I think this model will be slow at this point in time.
Now slow to come I’m thinking maybe next year.
But it’s certainly not any time in this year that that model will break through.
Because they have to recognize the benefit back to their advertisers to be able to monetize that content into our network.
But it is something that’s being discussed.
They realize that the linear model will not work as it does in TV in the wireless market.
You can’t assume that someone’s going to pay $8 a sub on 100 million subs so that model does not work.
So we are looking at other models but the barrier is how do you measure everything to get back to the advertisers for the perceived value on that content? Our next question is from Amir Rozwadowski of Barclays.
Your line is open.
Just on the capital expenditure front on the back of this capital expenditure rise for the year I wanted to ask how we should think about the capital intensity of the business going forward.
It does seem as though your competitors are healthily ramping their efforts to try and improve service quality.
Do you feel as though you’ll need to continue to put your foot on the gas in order to maintain the quality of your network? Well let’s put this in perspective.
We’ve moved our consensus by $200 million to $400 million so this is not a huge step up in our capital spend.
We just wanted to make sure everybody realized that we were going to accelerate some of the 4G LTE.
But as we’ve said in the past and if you look at our results through the first half of the year we continue to really be disciplined around the capital investment across our businesses but also within the wireline segments.
So you see that come down year over year.
We expect that trend to continue.
So that will offset some of the pressure that we may see on the wireless side.
So I don’t anticipate that there’s going to be any major accelerations but again it’s too soon to tell where we’re going to come out in ’13.
I’ll talk more about that in the coming quarters but right now the focus is on this year and it’s between $200 million and $400 million increment.
If I may we’ve clearly seen a pickup in terms of your shared data plans.
I think you mentioned that it’s more than 36% of your subscribers that are on these plans.
I was thinking from a strategic perspective as we’ve seen increased promotional activities by some of your competitors to try and wean subscribers onto their networks do you feel as though this is a potential mode in terms of protecting your subscriber base from some of these more aggressive pricing plans that are available in the market? Should we expect to see more promotional activity to try and ratchet this sort of percent of subscribers on shared data plans up in the coming quarters? This industry has always been an extremely competitive industry and obviously some of the promotions around unlimited have been there for the last year when we launched share pricing.
And we continue to take market share we continue to grow our revenue very strongly.
So look I mean Verizon Wireless will do one thing very well.
They will compete very well in the market but we are a balanced company.
We will compete grow revenue grow profitability and grow our subscribers.
And at the end of the day customers make choices not really just on price but the quality of the network and that’s what we’ve built our brand on.
So quality of the network consistency of the network the reliability of the network the value that we provide to our customers through these shared plans.
And again will we do promos here and there? Of course.
As I said before we’ll launch the Verizon Edge which will give our customers yet another choice of how do they want to enter onto the best network there.
So I think the key here is give our customers choice and continue with what we’ve built our company on which is the strongest network.
Our last question comes from Tim Horan of Oppenheimer.
Your line is open.
Two questions on wireless.
Fran you talked about the fact that your LTE network is enabling you to attract a higher quality customer which has clearly been the case for a long time with your network.
But do you have any evidence on that on maybe credit scores? Are you finding with what you’ve done on LTE and the shared data plans are you attracting higher credit quality scores maybe losing lower quality score customers? And then secondly on the shared data plans can you maybe talk about what you’re seeing in terms of customers needing to increase their data buckets or many customers bumping up against headroom? Or do you expect to see an acceleration of that in the next year? Or is it more like two to three years out? On the high quality obviously we give a lot of our customers choice of various price plans and how to enter into our superior network.
And of course credit scores have always been a component of that.
I won’t really get into how we differentiate the credit scores but obviously you can see that from the growth that we have and the revenue growth that we have this is not a major issue for us.
And we watch this very closely but we’re gaining customers across all aspects of the business let’s just put it that way.
Shared data plan as far as acceleration of data usage again what we see and if you’ve experienced this yourselves we continually communicate with our customers throughout the month as to when they get to their usage and then when they get up into that 90% we give them the ability to upgrade through their phone to the next tier.
And we see some very good results from that.
Customers are upgrading when they need to.
So again based on our trajectory of data usage especially with where we see video going we continue to see that the uptake in the shared plan will continue the usage will continue to accelerate and our revenue growth will be reflective of that.
That’s all the time we have for questions.
But before we end the call I’d like to turn the call back to Fran for some closing comments.
Thanks Mike.
I just want to leave just a couple points of emphasis here.
Our strategic investments and operational execution drove strong financial performance in the first half of this year.
But while we are pleased with the overall performance we obviously know we have more work to do.
We are committed to driving shareholder value by continuing to execute our strategy and improve on the fundamentals of the business.
We are focused on delivering superior customer service and providing the best portfolio of products along with the most reliable and consistent performing network.
Our focus is to capture incremental revenue growth in our key strategic areas while we also transform our service delivery and cost structure.
As always we will continue to be very disciplined around our capital investments investing in those platforms for the innovation and the growth of the future.
Through this strategy and execution model we expect to drive incremental cash flow and earnings growth both in the second half of this year and into the future.
Thank you again for joining us and everybody have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to the Verizon third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be opened for questions following the presentation.
(Operator Instructions).
Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Michael Stefanski Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
This is Mike Stefanski and I am here with our Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Before we get started let me remind you that our earnings release financial and operating information the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website.
Replays and a transcript of this call will be made available on our website later today.
I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement and our other legends on slides two and three.
Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties.
Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC which are also available on our website.
This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also available on our website.
Before Fran takes your through the details of our results I would like to cover a few special items that are included in our reported results.
These are displayed on slide four.
For the third quarter we reported earnings of $0.78 per share on a GAAP basis.
These results include a net gain on the sale of 700 B block spectrum of $0.02 per share offset by net incremental interest expense of $0.01 per share related to the debt we have raised to finance the acquisition of the remaining 45% stake in Verizon Wireless.
We have accounted for the gain on the spectrum sale at the corporate level.
So it is completely excluded from Wireless segment results.
Excluding these non-operational effects adjusted earnings per share was $0.77 in the third quarter compared with $0.64 a year ago.
Year-to-date adjusted earnings per share was $2.18 compared with $1.87 last year.
Our discussion of operating results and growth rates in this presentation exclude the effects of these two items and they are not part of our segment results.
Finally the quarterly growth rates disclosed in this presentation are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.
With that I will now turn the call over to Fran.
Thanks Mike.
Good morning everyone.
In the third quarter our key strategic networks and platforms Wireless 4G LTE FiOS and enterprise strategic services drove very strong operating performance and financial results.
Our consolidated revenue growth rate increased once again and our focus on cost efficiency and improved profitability resulted in double-digit growth in both operating income and earnings per share which we have delivered in every quarter this year.
Third quarter adjusted earnings per share of $0.77 was up 20.3%.
Year-to-date adjusted earnings per share of $2.18 represents 16.6% growth.
In Wireless we had another very strong quarter of growth and profitability.
We posted sequential quarterly improvement in terms of new retail connections and smartphones.
Total retail net adds were 1.1 million which included 927 000 high-quality postpaid net adds.
Service revenue growth increased to 8.4%.
EBITDA increased 10.7% and our EBITDA service margin was 51.1%.
All of this was accomplished with 7.6 million smartphone activations this quarter which was up sequentially and 12.5% higher than last year.
Our Wireline results in the third quarter also showed improvement.
Consumer revenue increased 4.3% driven by FiOS penetration.
Enterprise Strategic Services revenue grew 5.2%.
Total Wireline segment EBITDA increased 3.8% and EBITDA margin improved to 22.7% up 50 basis points sequentially and 100 basis points year-over-year.
Our strong operating performance and disciplined capital spending is driving growth in free cash flow.
On a year-to-date basis free cash flow increased $3.1 billion to $16.6 billion an increase of more than 23%.
All-in-all we had a great third quarter capped off by a lot of activity since Labor Day.
We announced an agreement with Vodafone to acquire its 45% interest in Verizon Wireless.
The transaction will be accretive to earnings per share provide additional operating cash flows and enable greater flexibility to develop converged solutions without any integration and due diligence risks.
The capital market environment was strong and we had a fully executed Bridge facility in place at the date of the announcement.
We successfully arranged in one day the required permanent bond financing with a $49 billion debt offering.
Earlier this month we signed an agreement for up to $12 billion in term loans.
Last week we filed a Form S-4 Registration statement and our proxy statement with the SEC related to the pending transaction.
Lastly in a demonstration of their confidence in the strength of our future cash flows our Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend increase for the seventh consecutive year so we have been busy and productive on the transaction front but as always our primary focus is driving strong operating results.
Now let's look at our third quarter performance in more detail starting with consolidated results on Slide 6.
Total operating revenue grew 4.4% continuing our solid top line growth trend.
This marks the fourth consecutive quarter of growth in excess of 4%.
The increase in consolidated revenues along with effective cost management resulted in 16.8% growth in adjusted operating income in the quarter.
On the same adjusted basis consolidated EBITDA increased to $11 billion up 9.7%.
Our adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 170 basis points to 36.3% which is the highest consolidated margins in more than five years.
Now let's move into a review of the segments starting with Wireless on Slide 7.
Our consistent investment in Wireless is the foundation of our success and drives our leadership in network quality reliability and the overall customer experience.
We will continue to build on our network advantage in 4G LTE by deploying capital to provide additional capacity and density to our network.
We will also be opportunistic in terms of acquiring new spectrum.
In short we will continue to focus on executing our game plan.
Our third quarter results clearly demonstrate our ability to create strong operating momentum and deliver excellent results.
We continue to perform extremely well in a highly competitive market.
Total Wireless revenues grew to $20.4 billion in the quarter representing 67% of Verizon's consolidated revenue.
We sustained our strong service revenue performance with 8.4% growth our fourth consecutive quarter of growth in excess of 8%.
EBITDA increased to $8.9 billion and our EBITDA service margin expanded by 110 basis points to 51.1%.
Year-to-date our EBITDA service margin is 50.4%.
Our Wireless profitability has been very consistent with margins of 49% or higher in five of the last six quarters.
Let's now turn to a more detailed look at Wireless revenue per account beginning on slide eight.
Service revenue growth continued to be driven by increasing connections data usage and smartphone penetration gain.
Our Share Everything plans are driving device adoption and stimulating higher usage resulting in increases in both the number of devices and revenue per account.
During the third quarter retail postpaid revenue per account or ARPA grew 7.1% to nearly $156 per month.
We have 35 million postpaid accounts and average connections increased to 2.72 per account up 4.6%.
Customer adoption of our Share Everything plans have been exceptional.
In just 15 months 42% of our postpaid accounts are on these plans.
The value proposition is simple and straightforward.
Our customers quickly recognize the value of shared data across multiple devices particularly in our 4G LTE environment.
Let’s take a closer look at connections growth on slide nine.
In the third quarter retail net additions increased by 1.1 million up 2.2% sequentially.
As I highlighted earlier we had 927 000 postpaid net adds.
In terms of the makeup of these postpaid net adds we added more than 1 million smartphones which was a 5% sequential increase.
Including the decline in basic phones total phone net adds were 481 000.
We added 370 000 new Internet devices including tablets.
The remaining net adds of about 76 000 were primarily Home Phone Connect.
We did encounter iPhone supply constraints that created a backlog at the end of September which resulted in some carryover to the fourth quarter.
Within prepaid we added 134 000 new retail connections which was 38% higher than the second quarter.
We ended the quarter with 101.2 million total retail connections.
Our industry-leading postpaid connection base reached 95.2 million with the balance being prepaid.
We maintained a high quality mix within our retail connections growth.
Postpaid gross additions increased sequentially to 3.7 million.
73% of these gross adds were phones including 2.2 million smartphones both of which were higher than first or second quarter.
The number of customer upgrades in the quarter remained fairly steady on a sequential basis with a postpaid upgrade rate of 6.9%.
The upgrade rate was also slightly affected by inventory constraints.
As you would expect a significant percentage of our upgrades are smartphones which continued to benefit us from a service revenue perspective.
About 33% of customers upgrading to smartphones this quarter were purchasing one for the first time.
A majority of the remaining upgrades were moving from a 3G to a 4G smartphone which we are able to monetize through higher data usage and lower cost to serve.
And while upgrades are likely to be higher in the fourth quarter we continue to expect that our annual upgrade rate will be about the same as last year.
Our churn metrics continue to be market-leading.
Our retail postpaid churn was 0.97%.
Next let's turn to slide 10 and take a look at device sales and our progress in 4G LTE.
Postpaid device activations which includes both gross adds and upgrades totaled 10.2 million in the quarter representing both a sequential and year-over-year increase.
Similar to first and second quarter 88% of the activations were phones.
Smartphone activations totaled 7.6 million and 77% of these were 4G LTE.
The smartphone mix was fairly balanced once again with roughly 51% of the activations being iPhones.
Our smartphone penetration continues to improve and we ended the quarter at over 67%.
We also had another strong quarter of Internet device activations which topped $1 million again in the quarter 4G device penetration within our postpaid base continued at a rapid pace 38% of our retail postpaid connections are now 4G up from 33% in the second quarter and 17% one year ago.
More than 50% of our smartphones and 70% of our Internet devices are 4G.
Currently about 64% of our total data traffic is carried on the 4G LTE network.
Throughout the rest of this year we will continue to add capacity and optimize our 4G LTE network ensuring that customers are receiving the quality and consistent reliability that they expect from our network and devices.
Let's move next to our Wireline segment starting on Slide 11.
Our Wireline investments in platforms such as FiOS global IP security cloud services and machine-to-machine enabled us to deliver the services applications and solutions that our customers want.
As these services scale they will become increasingly efficient and will improve our overall cost structure.
In the consumer and mass markets business we continue to see positive revenue trends highlighted by sustained FiOS growth.
For the last five quarters consumer revenues have grown in excess of 4%.
In the third quarter revenues were up 4.3% driven of course by FiOS which now represents about 72% of consumer revenue.
Our overall consumer monthly ARPU increased to nearly $113 up 8.7% roughly two-thirds of our FiOS customers are triple-play which have a much higher amount of recurring revenue per month.
We had a good quarter of FiOS customer growth.
In terms of broadband we had 173 000 new FiOS Internet editions and now have 5.9 million subscribers representing 39% penetration.
Overall net broadband subscribers were a positive 56 000.
In addition to the customer growth and increased penetration we are also gaining traction with our FiOS Quantum offers for higher broadband speeds.
More than half of our FiOS Internet sales in the quarter were at speeds in excess of 50 megabits per second and just over 40% of our FiOS Internet customers subscribed to Quantum with speeds ranging from 50 megabits to 500 megabits per second.
The incremental revenue from higher broadband speeds is contributing to overall consumer revenue growth.
In FiOS video we added 135 000 new subscribers in the quarter up 13.4%.
Total FiOS video customers reach 5.2 million representing 35% penetration.
We also continue to make steady progress with Copper migrations.
During the quarter we converted about 80 000 customers.
Through nine months we converted nearly 250 000 customers so we are on track to exceed our target of 300 000 customers for the year.
By year end we estimate that less than 1 million consumer customers will be remaining on Copper services within our FiOS footprint.
This network evolution initiative is important for us as we systematically reduce our dependence on older technology.
Aside from the maintenance expense savings and improvements in customer satisfaction convergence of fiber also provide customers the opportunity to purchase FiOS services which could result in additional ARPU over time.
Another positive result in the quarter was the steady improvement in our residential connection trends.
Retail residential connections declined by 4.9% compared with a loss of 6.3% at this time last year.
Let's move to our enterprise market next on Slide 12.
In the third quarter Global Enterprise revenue declined $113 million or 3%.
Legacy CPE sales were down 21% and represented $91 million of the year-over-year decline.
Excluding the quarterly decline in CPE Global Enterprise revenue was down less than 1%.
Keep in mind that our Global Enterprise revenue includes both federal and state government.
Strategic services which now comprise 58% of Enterprise revenue grew 5.2%.
We continue to work through economic challenges in the enterprise space.
In the public sector we are seeing the effects of sequestering budget cutbacks and contract renewals.
In the private sector many enterprise customers are more focused on improving their cost structure which puts pressure on our top-line revenue.
Generally speaking enterprise customers continue to be cautious regarding new investment decisions.
Moving next to global wholesale.
Quarterly revenues declined $113 million or 6.3%.
While this quarter is an improvement the revenue pressure is driven by the continued decline in legacy transport services.
As we have stated our wholesale strategy is to better monetize our global IP and fiber network by driving a more efficient migration to next generation Ethernet services.
In terms of profitability while growth in enterprise strategic services is improving the revenue mix volume declines in the rest of the global enterprise and wholesale continued to put pressure on Wireline margins.
Through our Verizon Lean Six Sigma program we are making good progress in our cost restructuring programs and retooling efforts which we believe will ultimately improve our operating efficiency.
Let's now turn to slide 13.
To summarize our overall Wireline results total operating revenues were down 1% in the quarter.
FiOS and strategic services continued their positive growth trends while global enterprise and wholesale were pressured by declines in legacy transport services and CPE.
Excluding the decline in legacy CPE our revenue performance this quarter was essentially flat year-over-year.
In terms of Wireline profitability third quarter EBITDA increased to $2.2 billion resulting in an EBITDA margin of 22.7%.
On a year-to-date basis the Wireline EBITDA margin was 22.1%.
We continue to expect that our full year EBITDA margin will be similar to 2012 excluding the effects of Sandy from last year's results.
We also continued to target improved profitability and margin expansion in 2014.
Let's turn to slide 14 for a discussion of our cash flow results.
Our cash generation in the quarter remained very strong.
On a year-to-date basis cash flows from operations increased to $28.4 billion free cash flow increased to $16.6 billion up 23%.
This does not include the $1.9 billion of proceeds form the sale of the 700 B spectrum licenses which is included in cash flows from investing activities.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $4.2 billion and were $11.8 billion year-to-date up 4.3%.
We estimate that full year 2013 capital spending will be approximately $16.6 billion.
We are very focused on improving investment returns and capital efficiency and expect that our annual CapEx to revenue ratio will improve even with the planned additional spending in 4G LTE.
Wireless capital spending in the third quarter totaled $2.5 billion.
Year-to-date Wireless CapEx was $6.7 billion 10.8% higher than last year.
As noted on our last quarterly call our 4G LTE coverage build is essentially completed.
So our capital spending going forward will be focused on adding capacity and density to our existing coverage.
We are utilizing our AWS spectrum to further optimize the network and we are already spending some of the incremental capital we allocated to Wireless capacity.
In Wireline capital expenditures totaled $1.5 billion in the quarter and $4.5 billion year-to-date which was down 3.2% from last year.
In terms of the balance sheet total debt increased to $99.1 billion due to the permanent financing we have put in place related to the pending transaction to obtain full ownership of Verizon Wireless.
However since we do have a cash until the close of the transaction our net debt to adjusted EBITDA remained quite low at about 1.1 time.
Let's summarize.
Our third quarter results were very strong showing consistent performance in all our key strategic growth areas.
In Wireless continued strong growth in service revenue coupled with high quality connections growth and the success of our Share Everything plans are driving double-digit growth and EBITDA and very strong cash generation.
We continue to lead the industry in profitability and we are on track to deliver 49% to 50% EBITDA margins for the full year.
We also expect to see customer growth increase sequentially in the fourth quarter.
In Wireline consumer revenue growth of more than 4% continued to be driven by FiOS where we are on track to achieve our net subscriber growth targets.
In Enterprise we continue to focus on strategic services and have announced our new Verizon Cloud strategy.
In terms of an update on our pending transaction to gain full ownership of Verizon Wireless our permanent financing is secured and we have taken our bridge financing facility and S-4 Registration statement and our proxy statement were filed on October 8 and are under review by the SEC.
You can access these filings on our investor relations website or the SEC website.
Efforts are underway to obtain required regulatory and shareholder approvals.
We expect to close the transaction during the first quarter of 2014.
Overall a great third quarter we are focused on continuing our momentum and finishing the year strong.
With that I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.
Thank you Fran.
Brad we are now ready for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question and answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from John Hodulik of UBS.
You may go ahead with your question.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Two quick ones.
First on the Wireless margins.
Fran how much of an impact did the Edge plan and the 24-month upgrade cycle have in the strong margin you guys posted in the third quarter? And then how should those issues affect the fourth quarter? And then I thought you talked about the uptick you had in the Wireless CapEx.
You talked about the AWS deployment.
Can you give us a little bit more detail on how that gets laid over and just sort of how quickly can you get some more capacity into the market on the LTE side? Good.
Thanks John.
On the VZW margins so Edge keep in mind we launched Edge at the very end of August.
It really didn't really pick up speed until September.
Our indirect channels did not get it until the very very end of the quarter so there really was no impact from the Edge program to these results.
I mean we will see more in the fourth quarter and we will wait to get to that to report it out but very very immaterial impact.
On the 24-month cycle it's very hard for us to determine because again people are proactive on when they upgrade to a cycle basis.
Of course you know it did delay some of the upgrades from going from that the 20-month to the 24-month and that went into effect on September 1 so again only really 30 days of impact there.
We will probably see more of that in the fourth quarter.
As far as the VZW margin impact from the two of them I would say very very limited in this quarter and you can see why the margin was the way it was just from an overall revenue increase and some of the cost containment measures that we have been putting in place for quite some time and we could talk more about that.
As far as CapEx goes so here is where we are at.
Obviously we know that we have completed the coverage build of our 4G LTE and an obviously if you look at our map it's pretty significant coverage compared to our competitors.
Now post June all of our efforts have gone into the capacity and densification.
And given where we are if you look at some of the metrics I mean if you think about 38% of our customers are on the 4G network and they are generating 64% of the data usage this is a pretty significant volume of usage going through that network and we know that given the growth of this we have had some densification issues in major cities like New York Chicago San Francisco and we are totally focused on those types of issues and what you see us doing is being very proactive in more in-building coverage more densification cell sites launching the AWS spectrum so you are going to see that through in the fourth quarter and that's why we increased the CapEx spending but I think the walk-away here is is that we are extremely focused on our network.
It is our brand we will continue to perform in this area and also the return here if you think about every dollar I put into that network when you have 64% of the data on a tiered shared everything plan you can see that coming through from our revenue so the return on the invested capital is pretty immediate and it's pretty significant so we will continue to concentrate on that effort.
Right.
Thanks.
Okay.
Brad we are ready for the next call.
Your next question comes from Jason Armstrong of Goldman Sachs.
You may go ahead with your question.
Hi thanks.
Good morning.
A couple of questions I guess focused on Wireline.
First the FiOS volumes very very strong quarter in broadband.
I think it adds up almost 30% year-over-year.
Saying that the extent to which video is bundled to this looks to have taken a bit of a hit in the quarter.
I think there is a 40 000 disconnect between broadband adds and video adds in the FiOS side.
That's much larger than normal.
Can you help us think through that? Then second just on Wireline margins.
Good progress in the quarter on margins.
The comment on margin expansion for 2014 maybe you can help us think through are there anything that that necessarily relies on? For instance if enterprise is still under pressure next year does that put pressure on margins? Or can you grow margins despite that? Thanks.
Thanks Jason.
So on the FiOS broadband.
We did have a very very good quarter from a net add perspective especially on a year-over-year basis and especially since when you look back in history third quarter is normally a very high churn quarter for us.
Keep in mind a couple of things here.
So on the broadband side of the house you have to remember that as we do 80 000 migrations from our Copper who are voice and DSL only over to FiOS you are getting voice and FiOS Quantum adds.
And as I have talked before we really don't approach these customers on a TV product for about five to six months and then it takes us about another three to four months of marketing to actually see some success in conversion and we see about a 30% conversion once we do that.
They are really interested in the broadband speed and of course what you see in the Wireline segment today is as we migrate these customers from the Copper product to the FiOS product we are bringing them over at the same price.
But what we see is almost immediately with the speeds that they are getting in the FiOS Quantum they themselves are choosing to upgrade right into that 50 megabits and at times now even into the 75 megabit products.
So their ARPU is going up which is generating some of this Wireline increase that you see.
So TV net adds were up 13% year-over-year.
Now granted it means some of these adds we have got came from some of the disputes that happened in the competitive nature here during the quarter but still even without that we would have seen an increase year-over-year in our productivity and our penetration of FiOS.
So we are very happy with where we are but TV will always lag when we do these migrations.
On the Wireline margin look I think I have been pretty consistent here with where we think Wireline is going and I am still very confident that 2014 will show improvement.
And just to keep everyone grounded here the reason I say this is I am looking at enterprise as being flat with no substantial growth and we can talk about just the continued disruption that's coming out of Washington and the uncertainty and I think that will continue at least in the short-term here given what happened last night and extending some of this into the first quarter what's going to happen what's going to happen when we get to December 31 on the cliff jump off as we had last year with some of the tax preference items.
So I still think there is a lot of swirl going on and there is just a lot of uncertainty and the enterprise is going to sit on the side line.
But as I look at '14 I am looking as that's going to be flat.
So what do we see? We see continued progress in our FiOS penetration.
As I said I am very comfortable with 4% plus growth in revenue here going forward.
I continue to think that we will penetrate all of our markets and continue to gain share both in broadband and TV.
And also keep in mind as I said before with the Hughes Telematics acquisition VDMS and Redbox they have all been headwinds this year because we have gotten them up to started and we are eating some of the up start cost with them.
That I believe starts to diminish in '14 which actually helps.
And with Hughes they start to generate more revenues.
VDMS [starts] [ph] to generate revenues.
So there is a lot of things happening but I also think we can't lose sight of our Verizon Lean Six Sigma efforts on our cost initiatives that we have in our Wireline business and you are starting to see some of these efforts start to come through on our efficiency side of the house.
So we are very very optimistic that we can continue to move the Wireline profitability forward.
Great that's very helpful.
Thanks Fran.
Brad let's take the next question please.
Your next question comes from Phil Cusick of JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi guys thanks.
I think we all continue to be surprised with the Wireless service revenue growth.
Can you talk about where customers are in terms of taking more data than the minimum? How many customers or how many families or per devices are taking more than sort of a standard 2-gig package per device and where does 4G usage looks now? If not an actual number then versus where average usage was a year ago? Thanks.
Thanks Phil.
On the Wireless service growth.
Obviously I am not going to get into exactly how many customers break bundles and all that but I think there is some things that we have to understand here that's driving it so first off if you look at this quarter again we had a very strong quarter with 480 000 smartphone adds that are very high quality and these are all coming in mostly on our 4G and shared price plans some of these are 3G phones obviously but the majority is coming in on our 4G product.
The other thing I think you have to understand too is that we are coming up on the anniversary dates of the 3G when the iPhone was launched and those customers now are upgrading to 4G phones and moving into shared price plans.
If you look at 3G usage and the customers moving into 4G and they start to utilize this LTE network they are starting to realize the benefits of that and their usage significantly goes up from where they were in 3G so that's stimulating even if we come over and I have said before the way our sales force is approaching this is they recommend 2 gigs for every device that a customer brings into shared pricing so even with that you think about that usage versus 3G device usage that in itself is pretty significantly higher so that drives the revenue.
Then you look at the tablets and the Internet devices you get into machine-to-machine connections or machine-to-machine it continues to escalate quarter-after-quarter and then of course then we look at the prepaid side of the house so I think it's a combination of all of these things that are driving that.
When you think about 42% of our basis on shared plans we still have a long way to go of converting a lot of that 3G product over to the 4G and into the shared plans so there is still a lot of runway here to continue to grow this revenue stream for us so that's that and I think I answered the 4G versus the 3G usage.
Then if I can just follow-up quickly on your government comment a few minutes ago it sounds like you are a little cautious on 4Q in terms of enterprise decision making and things like that.
Is that a fair read? I think the cautious is Phil I don't see anything changing here from 3Q to 4Q.
Again you heard me say that keep in mind our federal and state government are in our Enterprise segment and that really is declining faster than the rest of the segment right now.
Now the positive to this is is that within our cloud services it's fairly flat so where we see the federal government during the sequestering period pulling back in some areas they are actually buying some of the data center and cloud products so there is a balance here but I don't think things get a lot worse but I don't see them getting any better.
Brad let's take the next question please.
Your next question comes from Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Fran I wonder if you could update us on the VoLTE rollout when we are going to start to see that and when you start to see the benefit of lower smartphone cost and lower subsidies going forward? You touched briefly relating to the Vodafone about the ability to bring converged solutions together maybe you can expand on that little bit and talk a little bit more about what we might see from the cable joint venture over the next few quarters.
Thanks.
On VoLTE rollout we are still on track you will probably see us have a VoLTE capable handset here in the fourth quarter.
As we said that we will light up the VoLTE rollout starting in the first half of next year so we are still very much on track on that one.
As far as lower smartphone cost and subsidies look I think the ecosystem has a lot here.
You are going to see a lot of new and innovative products come out in the fourth quarter but subsidy is done on a handset-by-handset manufacturer-by-manufacturer.
Then obviously as you have heard me say before the more manufacturers we can get into this ecosystem and it really comes down to an operating system the more competitive nature this marketplace will become so I still believe that that will happen.
Obviously you have heard me talk about VoLTE will contribute to some as we start to remove some of the CDMA chip but then there is other technologies like multi class multicast that will be put into the phone.
So there is a lot of technologies being removed from the phone but new technologies that are being implemented into the phone.
So this is going to be a long path but I do think as I said before subsidies will gradually come down over the next two to three years.
On the converged solutions side look I mean as far as the joint venture with the cable companies we have talked about we still have a distribution agreement with one another and we continue to work with one another to sell each other's products.
But the marketing joint venture or co-development has been terminated and we are moving in our separate ways on that.
And what you are going to see here is as we talked about Verizon Wireless the acquisition of Verizon Wireless we now get to more of a converged middle with our consumer products between FiOS and Wireless and we no longer have the artificial wall up between the affiliate transactions or anything like that.
So I won't talk about what you will see but I think what you will see from us is a move forward of bringing to the customer the best product available between Wireline and Wireless.
Okay thank you.
Brad next question please.
Your next question comes from Michael Rollins of Citi Investment Research.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks for taking the questions.
Two questions.
First on Verizon Wireless.
Can you give us an some update Fran on the net debt? Then secondly on the Wireline side I think you mentioned that you have less than 1 million Copper customers in your FiOS footprint if I got that quote correct.
Can you talk about the significance of that in terms of the opportunity to take those remaining Copper customers and get them over to the fiber and the potential cost savings that you could generate by moving to fiber and really getting the one network architecture within your FiOS footprint for at least the residential customers? Thanks.
Okay thanks Mike.
So I guess this should be the last quarter I have to answer this question on net debt.
So gross debt for Wireless is $10.2 billion cash is $6.6 billion net is $3.6 billion.
On the Wireline side yes you did get the quote right.
So there will be less than 1 million customers that are on Copper within our FiOS footprint.
And you see us from our migration strategy in the last two years I think in the last two years now when we exceed our 300 000 for this year we will have moved close to 600 000 customers from our Copper network into our FiOS network.
We will continue to approach this migration.
Now if you think that we do 300 000 a year you are looking at three more years to get that completed but we will continue to try to accelerate as much as we can.
And from a cost benefit obviously what you are seeing is some of those benefits coming through the Wireline results today just from a repair metric from a truck roll metric the reliability of this network is drastically different than the reliability of the Copper network.
So you are going to see us continue to invest in the FiOS infrastructure.
One of the things that we are doing now is the network team has been working over the last year in provisioning the FiOS network into our enterprise and small business customers using the GPON technology.
So we fully expect to utilize this FiOS backbone much more than it had been in the past.
So you are going to continue to see this migration and you are going to see the cost benefits coming through our operating results.
And Fran I just have follow-up on one other thing.
So if you think about your Wireline footprint in total are there any updated views on what you do outside of this core FiOS footprint? Well what you are going to see us do is obviously now we have done some of this in the past but using Wireless our Fusion technology from a broadband perspective.
So when we talk about converged solutions and bringing the best solution to our end user customer this goes into what we do with our Copper customers outside of the FiOS footprint and what do we do for them from a voice perspective and also a DSL perspective.
And obviously we have Home Phone Connect and we have Voice Link on the Wireline side that we have already started to sell to our Copper voice customers as a substitute to the Copper product.
So we have already done some of this but you are going to see more technology come out here in 2014 that's going to address these issues.
Thank you.
Brad let's take the next question please.
Our next question comes from David Barden of Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Two if I could.
Fran just on the Wireline side.
The consumer business has been really on fire the best performing part of that entire segment right now and it's really been in the last two quarters or so that you have added about a $500 million worth of run rate revenue in that business and I know FiOS actually was growing in terms of net adds faster last year on average than it's growing this year.
Can you talk a little bit about what the real drivers of that consumer business are and can we extrapolate those into 2014? Just teasing a part of your commentary about enterprise if you took out the CPE or kind of talking about global enterprise being flattish year-over-year but obviously government is a wake on that.
Is it then can we interpret that the basic Enterprise business coming from non-government sources is actually starting to grow year-over-year? If you could kind of elaborate on that it would be helpful.
Thanks.
Thanks David.
On the Wireline consumer business I think when we size this all up we really have three main focuses.
As I have talked to you before we have become a very disciplined pricing strategy around our FiOS product and we looked at cable a number of years ago we looked that they were very very disciplined in how they did price ups to match their content cost and we were not really good with that but we started this as you know last year very early in the year and we have a strategy going forward so we will continue to drive that strategy of pricing up the product equivalent to our content cost increases.
If you look at the next level of concentration we have had is we are going after market share.
Now as far as slowness in the net adds there is some seasonality here there is always something that happens in the environment that causes us but look I mean there are some markets that were over 50% penetrated so those markets have a slower growth but we are still gaining share in some of our later markets like New York City Philadelphia Washington which are in my mind underpenetrated to where they should be so you are going to see a little shift.
There could be some slowness though as we start to penetrate some of these markets in 50% but the fact of the matter here is that we still have a long runway.
If you look at our 39% penetration we still have a long way to go from a net add perspective but the other thing that's driving this growth and we can't lose focus of it is the migration of these FiOS of these Copper customers over to FiOS and as we convert them as I said it may take us a little while but then we get that uptick in our TV product along with that.
The other focus that we have too that is not in the top line but really comes in through content you see us doing some very innovative things around negotiation of content moving away from a per subscriber-type content to more of a per viewer-type cost of content so we are in lot of conversations with content providers that were willing to pay for people who watch their programs but were not willing to pay on an overall subscriber base and we have been successful here with some of the smaller tier content carriers but that's also benefiting the profitability of this product going forward so I think there is a whole combination of why we think that we will continue this 4%-plus revenue increase with continued penetration and continued profitability on FiOS.
On the enterprise side when we say relatively flat if you take out CPE our decline in enterprise will be 0.8% this quarter versus 0.9% last quarter so the government is declining faster than that.
I would sit here and tell you that enterprise is growing.
We do have certain areas of our business that are growing.
If you look at our security product if you look at our cloud products if you look at the Terremark product they are in fact growing Hughes is growing but then you have the legacy voice and data that is not growing and that's declining so net-net I would say it's relatively flat without the government pressure.
Brad next question please.
Your next question comes from of Brett Feldman of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Thanks for taking the question.
When you launched the Wireless deal you had talked about an objective of getting back to your pre-deal leverage levels.
I believe you said about four to five years but correct me if that's wrong but regardless of the timeframe I was hoping maybe you could just comeback and talk about some of the foundational assumptions that support that goal.
For example do you expect to see capital intensity continue to improve.
I am curious what you are assuming about your ability to maintain or even grow your Wireless margins over that four to five year period? Then lastly can you give us any color what you budgeted for spectrum purposes? Yes thanks Brett.
So look I am not going to get in to the details of what we have projected.
If you think about everything that we had considered here we considered tax we considered CapEx we considered the incremental tax rate.
As I said our tax rate will increase to a 35% to 36% range from what we have always guided from a 31% to 33% range and that's because of the VZW coming over.
We had to project out what our interest rate was.
We know what that is now based on the offering that we did.
As far as CapEx goes I have been pretty consistent here.
You should consider us improving our CapEx to revenue ratio going forward.
You should look at us as to what we have invested this year and we are going to do what we need to do to continue to invest in our networks and our platforms.
But moving out of this there were three priorities that we set up to come to that four to five years.
One was we will continue to invest in our networks and platforms.
That is top priority for us.
Next is is we will continue to invest and buy licenses either opportunistically or in the auctions.
I can't tell you what that number is because obviously it's going to be a public auction and we have a lot of strategies around how we acquire licenses.
But that was built into our model.
And then finally the dividend policy is also a very critical piece of this component to our equity shareholders and I think our board show that when they increased the dividend at the same time that they announced the deal.
They are very confident in our cash flow.
Then finally we have a commitment that we will de-lever the balance sheet as quickly as possible.
So look I think if you look at the performance if you look at our cash flow and our free cash flow this quarter I think we are demonstrating that that four to five years is within our horizon and we will meet our targets.
And are you assuming you can maintain margins at roughly the same levels.
I am not going to get into giving guidance around margins.
I think our performance speaks for itself and the margins speak for themselves.
Thank you.
Okay Brad.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Amir Rozwadowski of Barclays.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you very much and good morning folks.
Good morning.
Fran just a follow up on the prior question around VoLTE rollout.
What does this mean in terms of network investment here? And specifically what I am trying to understand is are you where you need to be with respect to your network in order to provide ubiquitous VoLTE services nationwide? Or should we expect some additional investment in order to get to that level? Yes so Amir on this one it's a good question.
But look the issue with VoLTE is coverage.
And as I have always said we will not rush the VoLTE launch until we are sure that when you connect up a VoLTE voice call it will be very very similar to a 3G CDMA call because that's what our customers expect.
They know what the CDMA footprint is.
They know where they can call.
It's an unbelievable network.
We have to make sure that our VoLTE experience is the same and that's why we have taken such a long time and we believe that when we get to the first half of next year the network will be ready the experience will be very very similar and that we will be ready to roll this out.
But it is already built into the CapEx that we are spending.
You should not see incremental CapEx for rolling VoLTE.
It really is around coverage and of course it goes into the densification and capacities.
That's very helpful.
And if I may I just have a follow-up here somewhat of a bigger picture question.
As you mentioned this is sort of the fourth consecutive quarter in which you folks have posted 8% plus Wireless service revenue growth.
How sustainable do you think this is going forward.
And the way I am thinking about it is what advantage does now controlling the full cash flow of Verizon Wireless provide you in driving initiatives to sustain this level of growth? Well again it goes back to the earlier answer that there is a lot of things going here and if you look at just sustaining this growth I think I have been pretty open that says look I can't sit here and tell you that 8% growth is going to happen forever in Wireless.
I mean you are talking a huge base of revenue.
So I do think that the growth rate will come down over time.
But look I mean there is so much technology being developed throughout the world that's running over LTE.
If you look at our innovation center in Waltham and roll this out of our innovation center that we just opened up in San Francisco to welcome all the application developers into that center so it really comes down to the application developers developing new technologies around LTE so it's hard for me to determine what this continued growth rate will be but there is a lot of run way there is a lot of technology and the growth rate is still there.
Now I will tell you that in the short-term I do believe that we can continue on 8% growth but over the long-term I would tell you that I think that's probably a high aspiration.
Great.
Thanks for the incremental color.
Brad next question please.
Our next question comes from Kevin Smithen of Macquarie.
Your line is open.
I wondered if you could review where you are specifically in terms of the AWS rollout.
I think it's been quoted from the key partner you are going to end the year at 5 000 AWS sites.
Where are you at the end of Q3 and can you confirm the 5 000 number and what the target would be at the end of '14? Also maybe what kind of user speeds uplink and downlink you are seeing in the AWS markets versus the 700 markets particularly in New York Chicago San Francisco you have cited higher congestion? Thanks Kevin.
Yes.
Look I mean we are not going to get into a speed discussion because speed has a lot to do with nobody is on the network so obviously you are going to generate a lot higher speed and what we are building the network for is a very consistent reliable experience and we have always said that the network engineers have designed the LTE network when it is fully loaded and that's the key here.
When it's fully loaded and obviously with 64% of data being driven through that network it's pretty loaded you are going to experience on average 10 megabits to 12 megabits.
Now you will get burst of 20-30 and I know there was a report that came out about AWS of 80 but there's no one the network so I think it would be irrelevant for me to speak to that but here is the point.
The point is is that we are doing a lot around our network.
We are launching the AWS.
As I said we are launching a lot of technologies and the issues what they were currently having in some of the larger cities with the densification these are started to be fixed in the third quarter and we are going to make a lot of progress in the fourth quarter so I think that's really what's important here.
To me it's kind of irrelevant how many cells sites have what it all comes down to the quality of the network the reliability and the consistent performance of that network.
You touched on the incentive option.
How long do you think this AWS spectrum can carry you and if the incentive option gets pushed back for whatever reason do you have enough capacity in AWS to last you through 2016-2015? What are the scenarios? Well it's not just AWS because we can re-appropriate our CDMA spectrum in [this] we need over into our LTE network so as I said before given the timeframe we are in now we are good for at least three-plus four years with the spectrum holdings we have but obviously we are going to participate in the auction we are going to need more spectrum for the future of our business and we are going to invest in that spectrum.
Brad next question please? Your next question comes from Tim Horan of Oppenheimer.
Your line is open.
Maybe just two Wireless clarifications and an update maybe on what your cloud strategy is at this point.
I know you are launching new product but on Wireless can you maybe just discuss market share shifts? Sprint was shutting down the network and T-Mobile has been making some marketing initiatives.
Have you seen any real changes out there in market share? Then Fran I know you have talked about the ARPU growth but are you seeing any resistance for the price increases.
It seems that ARPU growth is really really positive for the longer term trend as it [continues] it's doesn't kick-in.
Just if you can talk about your new enterprise kind of cloud data that you launched that would be great.
Thanks.
Thanks Tim.
On the market share side look I mean we did 927 000 net adds this quarter which was a strong quarter.
Obviously we could have done more but there was constrains in the iPhone especially around the 5s and I think that constrained us for this quarter but that will roll into our fourth quarter here so from a market share standpoint we continue to gain market share.
Now I can't sit here and tell you that we don't lose customers to our competitors.
If you look at some of the other things that we were dealing with I mean we do have some low end if you will some single line basic phone customers and older 3G smartphone customers.
And what we see the shift here is we are seeing them shift out of postpaid into our retail prepaid products but we are also seeing some of them shift off to some of the lower end price plans of our competitors.
We did launch some things in September and we saw some improvement there and we will continue to get aggressive with those types of customers here in the fourth quarter.
But from a market share perspective we are gaining market share.
I mean I think we will still post the best quarter of any competitor out there.
As far as the ARPA trend look I mean this just goes what I have said before as the focus going forward is not necessarily how many net adds I do it's how we generate the growth of our topline that produces the margins.
And this goes around everything I have talked about this morning with the quality of the network 3G to 4G all of these other devices and some of this ARPA growth as we say is revenue per count.
I mean these could be as I said before these are other devices being attached to the network not necessarily smartphones or tablets.
As you know we sold cameras.
We have sold a lot of machine-to-machine technology that are in our stores now.
So there is a lot of things that are contributing to this.
Even if it's $0.50 to $0.60 a subscriber it's still generating that revenue coming through that ARPA.
Then on the cloud obviously for some clarification here.
Tim I think what you are talking about is on October 3 we launched a paid public beta of our new public cloud infrastructure.
We are calling this Verizon Cloud Compute and Verizon Cloud Storage for businesses and governments of all size and our technology will give us the ability for this cloud based infrastructure to handle enterprise level workload securely and a compliance with a lot of relevant requirements which will provide flexibility and economic benefits of generic public cloud.
So the launch of this cloud is just the next step in our cloud evolution.
You are going to see a lot more of this come through in '14.
We will unveil new features.
We have this technology established in seven of our data centers on a worldwide basis.
You are going to hear more of this but it is a trial and a beta this point.
And I think you are going to see us do a lot more in '14 and you will start to see some of the benefits there.
Thank you.
Brad we have time for one final question.
Your last question comes from Jennifer Fritzsche of Wells Fargo.
You may go ahead.
Thanks Fran.
Two quick questions.
First on SMB.
Cable seems to be moving more upstream at least that's from some of the (inaudible) we are hearing.
I am just wondering if you are seeing that and how critical is Wireless as a part of your sales pitch to this segment because that's obviously an advantage for you.
Then quickly on pre pay.
AT&amp;T has made some more recent comments that they are going to be more aggressive on pricing there probably more to your league.
So just your quick thoughts on your prepaid strategy here? Thanks.
Alright thanks Jennifer.
So on small business look I always split this between two segments.
We have a segment that's within FiOS and a segment that's without outside of FiOS.
Obviously Verizon Wireless does an unbelievable job with small business and Wireless products.
But within our footprint within FiOS and outside of FiOS there is two things.
One is within FiOS we are actually gaining share in the small business environment.
The issue is that obviously we have to pass those small businesses with FiOS and quite honestly that has not been not been a concentration of ours.
Most of it was to residential homes within our footprint.
So now it's building out all of those malls and so forth.
So we have gone down the street.
Now the issue is getting that in to the small stores of these small businesses.
So within FiOS we are doing a fairly good job.
Outside of FiOS it's hard for me to compete with the speeds that cable can offer them through the DOCSIS 3.0 type technology.
So yes we are using Verizon Wireless.
We are using Fusion where we can.
But it's hard to compete because Fusion can't supplement a hard wired broadband connection into a very populated area.
So that segment we are loosing share.
Within FiOS we are gaining share.
On the prepaid strategy I have said all along we have our prepaid on 3G and the theory here is to keep the 3G network as full as possible to contribute contribution margin since we are not investing in that any more and we will continue to get as aggressive as we can and you can see that over the last year and a half we have become more aggressive in the prepaid environment but we also use our resellers to drive the lower end of prepaid because we don't want the brand of Verizon Wireless connected to that low end environment with the quality premium network of Verizon so that's the differentiation I think between us and our competitors but you can see we continue to make strides in prepaid and we will be as aggressive as possible on the 3G network to be competitive.
Before we end the call I would like to turn it back over to Fran.
Okay.
Thanks Mike.
Just a few comments here before we end the call.
Our industry has a very healthy competitive environment and we are forecasting continued strong demand for our video and broadband across multiple networks.
We are executing effectively within this competitive environment consistently delivering strong results positioning ourselves for future revenue growth earnings and cash flow growth and we will continue to invest in all of our networks to deliver the most reliable customer experience and that's what they expect.
We are excited about the future as we continue to invest innovate and deliver for our customers our shareholders and our employees.
Thank you for joining the Verizon call this morning and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Verizon Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be opened for questions following the presentation.
(Operator Instructions) Today’s conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Michael Stefanski Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Thanks Evan.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
This is Mike Stefanski and I am here with our Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Before we get started let me remind you that our earnings release financial and operating information the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website.
Replays and a transcript of this call will be made available on our website.
I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement and other legends on slides two and three.
Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties.
Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon’s filings with the SEC which are also available on our website.
This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also available on our website.
Before Fran takes you through the details of our results I would like to cover a few special items that are included in our reported results.
These are displayed on Slide 4.
For the fourth quarter we reported earnings of $1.76 per share on a GAAP basis.
This includes several significant non-operational items that I would like to highlight.
The largest item is a pre-tax gain of $6 billion related to the year-end mark-to-market adjustment of pension and OPEB liabilities.
This favorable accounting adjustment is primarily non-cash and is caused by an increase in the discount rate changes in actuarial assumptions and a greater than projected return on planned assets.
On an after-tax basis this gain amounted to $3.7 billion or $1.29 per share.
Partially offsetting this favorable item were pre-tax charges of $865 million related to the transaction to acquire Vodafone’s 45% stake in Verizon Wireless.
These transaction costs include net incremental interest expense of $616 million related to the debt raised in connection with the acquisition and the bridge financing and other cost of $249 million.
On an after-tax basis these transaction charges totaled $540 million or $0.19 per share.
Excluding these non-operational effects adjusted earnings per share was $0.66 in the quarter compared with $0.38 a year ago which included a $0.07 per share charge for the direct impact from Superstorm Sandy.
For the full year adjusted earnings per share were $2.84 compared with $2.24 last year an increase of 26.8%.
If you exclude the Sandy impact from last year the increase was 22.9%.
The quarterly growth rate disclosed in this presentation are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.
Also the results and growth rates exclude the effects of the non-operational items.
With that I will now turn the call over to Fran.
Thanks Mike.
Good morning everyone and Happy New Year.
Before we get into the details I like to start with an overview with our results in a proper context.
2013 was a great year for Verizon from both a strategic and financial perspective.
Of course the big strategic milestone was in our agreement to purchase Vodafone’s 45% stake in Verizon Wireless which will give us sole ownership of the best asset in the global wireless industry.
We have all the necessary financing in place the special shareholder meetings for both companies are scheduled for one week from today on January 28th and a closing is planned for February 21st.
As we have stated the transaction will be accretive to earnings per share by about 10% on day one.
Full ownership will also provide access to all the cash flows and give us greater flexibility to develop converged solutions without any integration and due diligence risks.
Our strategy is to build upon the foundation and strength of our network assets as a platforms for the future growth and innovation.
To the end we’re extremely well-positioned in the center of the trends that are driving growth in our industry.
Mobility broadband video cloud services and security.
Sole ownership of Verizon Wireless along with our portfolio of other assets will enable us to better leverage our capabilities across the entire business.
In wireless we completed our LTE coverage build and continue to invest in our 4G network to take advantage of the significant opportunities enabled by this technology as we innovate around our customer solutions.
In 2013 we further strengthened our portfolio of enterprise strategic services with the development of a new cloud services product suite.
The launch of a mobile healthcare platform and several targeted acquisitions which will enhance our capabilities in mobile video delivery.
Collectively these moves further strengthen the business and improved our competitive position in key areas of growth.
Underlining these strategic imperatives has been consistently strong operational and financial performance driven by solid execution and a disciplined focus on meeting our financial objectives.
In 2013 we achieved or exceeded all of our key financial targets delivering on what we said in January of 2013.
In wireless we had an excellent year we added 4.1 million new postpaid connections generated service revenue growth of more than 8% and drove a 15% increase in EBITDA.
Our growth in EBITDA was significant $4.5 billion in absolute terms and we expanded our annual service EBITDA margin nearly 300 basis points to 49.5% squarely within our 49% to 50% guidance for the full year.
In FiOS we increased our penetration of data and video services by adding more than 600 000 new customers during the year.
The scale of our FiOS business and the popularity of our FiOS Quantum speeds drove annual consumer revenue growth for 4.9% up sharply from 3.2% in 2012.
In the enterprise space inspite of continued economic challenges strategic services revenue grew 4.6% in 2013.
In terms of wireline profitability we got it to a flat EBITDA margin and that is what we produced at 22.2%.
In the area of capital spending we met our revised guidance of $16.6 billion which was up 2.7% over 2012.
Even with that increased spending level we improved our overall CapEx to revenue ratio as we said we would.
2013 was a great year of significant earnings and free cash flow growth.
Adjusted earnings per share increased to $2.84 up over 26% for the year.
Our free cash flow growth was also very significant increasing by $6.9 billion to 22.2 billion an increase of 45% from 2012.
In terms of shareholder value we generated a total return of 18.6% in 2013 for a combination of stock price appreciation and dividends.
For the seventh consecutive year our Board of Directors approved a dividend increase indicating their confidence in our future cash flows and earnings growth.
From my perspective 2013 was a great year of execution resulting in impressive customer growth and significant improvements in profitability and cash flows.
Now let’s look at our fourth quarter and full year performance in more detail starting with consolidated results on Slide 6.
Total operating revenue grew 3.4% in the fourth quarter continuing our consistent top line growth trend.
For the year we added $4.7 billion to consolidated revenue an increase of 4.1%.
On a full year basis the increase in consolidated revenues along with effective cost management resulted in more than 21% growth in adjusted operating income.
On the same adjusted basis consolidated EBITDA increased $4.6 billion up 12.3% for the year.
Our adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 260 basis points to 34.9% the highest consolidated margin in eight years.
As we highlighted earlier adjusted earnings per share in the fourth quarter of $0.66 was significantly higher than a year ago.
Our earnings performance has been very strong and very consistent with double-digit year-over-year growth throughout 2013.
Now let’s move into a review of the segments starting with Wireless on Slide 7.
Our consistent investment in Wireless is the foundation of our success and drives our leadership in network quality reliability and the overall customer experience.
We will continue to build on our network advantage in 4G LTE by deploying capital to increase capacity and density to our network.
Our fourth quarter and full year Wireless results were excellent.
We continued the strong momentum built during the quarter and fitted very strong.
Total Wireless revenues grew by $5.2 billion in 2013 and totaled $81 billion representing two-thirds of Verizon’s consolidated revenue.
We sustained our strong service revenue performance with 8% growth in the fourth quarter making this our fifth consecutive quarter of at least 8% growth.
For the year service revenue grew 8.3%.
We generated $8.3 billion of EBITDA in the fourth quarter up 22.6% from the same quarter last year.
Our service EBITDA margin in the quarter was 47% compared with 41.4% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
For the year EBITDA grew to $34.2 billion up $4.5 billion or 15%.
This is a very impressive accomplishment and a testament to the efficiency of our network and our continuous focus on improving productivity and efficiency throughout the business by applying our Verizon Lean Six Sigma principles.
Our 2013 EBITDA service margin of 49.5% improved by 290 basis points a very significant expansion and is clearly within the guidance we provided during the year.
The other point I would emphasize is the consistency of our Wireless profitability.
We have posted margins of 49% or higher in the five of the last seven quarters.
Now let’s turn to a more detailed look at Wireless revenue per account beginning on Slide 8.
Service revenue growth continued to be driven by more customers and devices increased data usage and smartphone penetration.
Our Share Everything Plans are doing exactly what we expected driving device adoption and stimulating higher usage resulting in increases in both the number of devices and revenue per account.
During the fourth quarter retail postpaid revenue per account or ARPA grew 7.1% to more than $157 per month.
We have seen consistent growth in this metric.
For the full year ARPA was up nearly $10 or 6.9%.
We ended the year with 35.1 million postpaid accounts and average connections per account grew from 2.64 to 2.76 an annual increase of 4.5%.
As we said customer adoption of our Share Everything Plans has been exceptional.
In just 18 months more than 46% of our postpaid accounts are on these plans.
In 2013 we effectively doubled the number of accounts on Share Everything from 8.1 million to 16.2 million.
The value proposition is simple and straightforward and customers recognize the value of share data across multiple devices.
Let’s take a closer look at connections growth on slide 9.
We had a strong quarter of quality customer growth.
Retail net additions totaled 1.7 million postpaid net adds were 1.6 million and prepaid were 80 000.
In terms of the makeup of our postpaid net adds we added 1.4 million new 4G smartphone customers.
Total phone net adds were 824 000 when you include the net change in 3G smartphone and basic phone customers.
We had a very strong quarter of internet device growth with 675 000 net adds 625 000 of which were tablets.
The remaining net adds of about 74 000 were primarily Home Phone Connect.
As usual we finished the year with strong customer growth and have great momentum heading into 2014.
To recap the full year we had a total of 4.1 million new postpaid net adds and 4.2 million new 4G LTE smartphone customers.
We added 1.8 million new internet devices with tablets representing about 1.5 million of this total.
We also added about 360 000 other devices primarily Home Phone Connect.
The offset to these additions was the net change in basic phones.
Total phone net adds were 1.9 million for the year representing about 47% of the total.
We ended the year with 102.8 million total retail connections.
Our industry leading postpaid connection space reached 96.8 million and prepaid totaled 6 million.
Postpaid growth adds increased sequentially to 4.3 million and total of 15.1 million for the full year up 1.7% roughly 60% of our growth adds for the quarter and the full year were smartphones.
Our postpaid upgrade rate was 7.4% in the fourth quarter and our quarterly average was 7% for the year.
As you would expect a significant percentage of our upgrades are smartphones which benefits us from a service revenue perspective.
About 23% of upgrades in the quarter were basic phone customers getting a smartphone for the first time.
The majority of the remaining upgrades were 3G smartphone customers moving up to a 4G smartphone which we were able to monetize through higher data usage and lower cost to serve.
Our churn metrics continued to be market leading.
Our retail postpaid churn was 0.96%in the fourth quarter down one basis point sequentially and up one basis point year-over-year.
Next let’s turn to slide 10 and take a look at device sale and our progress in 4G LTE.
Postpaid device activations which include both gross adds and upgrades totaled 11.52 million in the quarter.
This is higher than any prior quarter in 2013.
For the full year total postpaid activations totaled 41.5 million.
Smartphone activations totaled 8.8 million in the quarter an 87% were 4G LTE.
For the year smartphone activations increased 7.8% to 31.1 million.
Smartphone penetration increased to 70% of total phones.
About 58% of our smartphones are 4G.
We still have approximately 25.5 million basic phones and 24.7 million 3G smartphones in our customer base which gives us plenty of opportunity in 2014.
We had our best quarter of tablet activations since they were first introduced in late 2010.
We activated about 790 000 postpaid tablets in the quarter and 1.9 million for the full year.
Our tablet base now stands at 3.6 million so again we have a great opportunity in 2014 to expand this category and generate growth.
4G device penetration within our postpaid base really picked up in 2013.
At year-end 44% of our retail postpaid connections were 4G up from 23% one year ago.
Usage on our network continues to rise; currently about 69% of our total data traffic is carried on the 4G LTE network.
Going forward we will continue to add capacity and optimize our 4G LTE network ensuring that customers are receiving the quality and consistent reliability that they expect from our network and devices.
Let’s move next to our Wireline segment starting on Slide 11.
Our Wireline investments in platforms such as FiOS global IP security cloud services and machine-to-machine enabled us to deliver the services applications and solutions that our customers want.
As these services scale they will become increasingly efficient and will improve our overall cost structure.
In the consumer and mass markets business we continue to see positive revenue trends.
For the last six quarters consumer revenues have grown in excess of 4%.
In the fourth quarter these revenues were up 6.4% driven by FiOS price increases and incremental revenue from FiOS Quantum.
We believe that consumer revenue growth in excess of 4% in 2014 is sustainable.
FiOS now represents about 73% of consumer revenue and we sustained strong double-digit growth throughout the year.
FiOS consumer revenue grew 14.9% in the fourth quarter and 14.3% for the full year.
Within our base 46% of our FiOS Internet customers subscribed to Quantum with speeds ranging from 50 to 500 megabits per second.
In the fourth quarter 55% of our FiOS Internet sales were at speeds in excess of 50 megabits per second.
Our overall consumer monthly ARPU increased to $117 up 10.8%.
Roughly two-thirds of our FiOS customers are triple-play which have a much higher amount of recurring revenue per month.
In terms of adding new customers we are focused on profitable growth and have been disciplined in our approach in this very competitive market.
In broadband we had 126 000 new FiOS Internet additions in the fourth quarter and now have 6.1 million subscribers representing 39.5% penetration.
Overall net broadband subscribers were a positive 20 000.
In FiOS Video we added 92 000 new subscribers in the quarter.
Total FiOS Video’s customers reached 5.3 million representing 35% penetration.
We also continue to make steady progress with Copper migrations.
During the fourth quarter we converted about 80 000 customers.
For the full year we converted 330 000 customers exceeding our target of 300 000.
This network initiative is important for us as we systematically reduce our dependence on older technologies.
At the end of the year less than 1 million consumer customers remained on Copper services within our FiOS footprint.
Aside from the maintenance savings and improvements in customer satisfaction conversions to fiber also provide customers the opportunity to purchase FiOS services which would result in additional recurring revenue.
Looking at access lines retail residential connections declined by 5.2% compared with a loss of 6.2% at this time last year.
Let’s move to our enterprise markets next on Slide 12.
In the fourth quarter Global Enterprise revenue declined $200 million or 5.2%.
Legacy CPE sales were down 25%.
Excluding the quarterly decline in CPE Global Enterprise revenue was down 2.6%.
We also continued to see pressure in revenue from the public sector which declined at a double-digit rate.
This decline included both soft demand and product rationalization at the federal state and local levels.
Strategic services which now comprised 59% of enterprise revenue grew 2.3%.
Key areas of investment such as datacenters cloud and security services are growing at higher rates.
We continue to work through economic challenges in the enterprise space in addition to public sector pressures.
In the private sector many enterprise customers are more focused on improving their cost structure which puts pressure on our top line revenue.
In general enterprise customers continue to be cautious regarding new investment decisions.
Moving next to global wholesale quarterly revenues declined $138 million or 7.8%.
The revenue pressure is caused by the continued decline in legacy transport services.
As we have stated our wholesale strategy is to better monetize our global IP and fiber network by driving a more efficient migration to next generation Ethernet services.
In terms of profitability while growth in enterprise strategic services is improving the revenue mix volume declines in the rest of global enterprise and wholesale continue to put pressure on Wireline margins.
Through our Verizon Lean Six Sigma program we are making good progress in our cost restructuring programs and retooling efforts which we believe will ultimately improve our operating efficiency.
Let’s turn now to slide 13 to summarize our overall wireline results.
Total operating revenues were down 1.5% in the fourth quarter and 1.4% for the full year.
FiOS and certain strategic services continued their positive growth trends.
While global enterprise and wholesale were pressured by declines in legacy transport services DTE and challenges in the public sector.
In terms of wireline profitability fourth quarter EBITDA was $2.2 billion resulting in an EBITDA margin of 22.4%.
For the full year EBITDA increased 2.5% to $8.7 billion with an EBITDA margin of 22.2%.
As expected our margin is similar to 2012.
As I’ve stated in the past we’re confident that we will increase our wireline EBITDA margin in 2014.
Let’s turn to slide 14 for our discussion of our cash flow results.
Our cash generation in the quarter remained very strong.
For the full year cash flows from operations increased to $38.8 billion an increase of more than 23%.
Free cash flow increased to $22.2 billion up 45%.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $4.8 billion and were $16.6 billion for the full year an increase of 2.7%.
We continue to be very focused on improving an investment returns and capital efficiency and our annual CapEx to revenue ratio improved from 14% in 2012 to 13.8% in 2013.
At the segment level wireless capital spending was $2.7 billion in the fourth quarter and $9.4 billion for the full year up 6.4%.
In wireline capital expenditures were $1.8 billion in the quarter and $6.2 billion for the year down 1.8% from 2012.
The strength of our financial position enabled us to raise a record setting amount of capital in the debt markets last September.
We ended the year with total debt of $93.6 billion with all the permanent financing in place related to the pending Vodafone transaction.
We have a positive track record in terms of deleveraging the balance sheet.
Our pre-transaction leverage ratios were very low and we utilize cash for an entire 8.1 billion in bonds during 2013.
Even though we have more debt our balance sheet remained strong and we retained the financial flexibility needed to grow the business.
In 2014 our priorities for uses of cash are unchanged.
We will continue to invest in our networks purchase spectrum and delever the balance sheet in a prudent and disciplined manner.
We do not need to execute any major acquisitions to drive our business model.
We understand the importance of our dividend and our Board of Directors have shown us support by improving dividend increases in each of the last seven years.
In terms of capital spending we estimate total spending in 2014 to be in the range of $16.5 billion to $17 billion with continued improvement in our annual CapEx to revenue ratio.
We will be opportunistic in terms of acquiring new spectrum and has consistently demonstrated our ability to execute on this through a number of secondary market transactions.
Our willingness to sell or swap lower band spectrum with competitors shows our industry leadership and strong belief that spectrum to be in the hands of companies that plan to deploy this spectrum and put it to use.
As far as pension funding requirements our minimum required for 2014 is $1.2 billion based on our current plan assumptions.
As far as additional forward-looking information for 2014 we intend to provide that on our first quarter earnings conference call in April.
Let’s move next to our summary slide.
We enter 2014 with confidence and our ability to take advantage of the growth opportunities in our key strategic markets.
We will continue to invest in our networks as the platforms for future growth and innovation.
We have strong momentum in wireless and we expect to build on that strength driving further penetration of devices and extending our leadership position in 4G LTE.
In FiOS we expect to drive higher penetration in existing markets and continue to differentiate ourselves with our FiOS Quantum product and quality of our video services.
In the enterprise space we will continue to aggressively market key platforms like cloud security machine-to-machine and video delivery demonstrating to customers that we have a unique set of capabilities to provide customer solutions in a rapidly changing mobile first environment.
In terms of our cost structure we will continue to drive productivity improvements and operating efficiencies throughout the entire business utilizing our Verizon Lean Six Sigma principles.
At the end of the day it’s all about execution.
2013 was a great year.
Our focus on the customer and improving the value proposition drove consistent top line performance and resulted in significant growth in profitability and cash flows improving our investment returns.
For 2014 Lowell and I have challenged our business leaders to build on the strong foundation we have accelerate the momentum we have achieved improve the returns on our investments and create more shareholder value.
We look forward to another great year in 2014.
With that I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.
Fran thank you.
Evan we are now ready for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from John Hodulik of UBS.
Please go ahead with your question.
Okay thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hey John.
Hi.
Wireless margins were better than we thought.
It looks like partially due to the lower upgrade rate.
Is Edge putting pressure on the number of upgrades and do you expect that the number to be lower in ‘14 than it was in ‘13? And then secondly T-Mobile’s new strategy with ETFs has been getting a lot of attention how do you see that? Is that sort of an incremental change or do you think more of a fundamental change to the industry and how do you expect that to affect your business as you look out to ‘14? Thanks.
Hi thanks John.
Good morning.
On the upgrades side obviously the volume of upgrades this year were less than last year given all of the policy changes that we made and also keep in mind that at the end of 2012 we also had a free iPhone for the first time on our network so that drove a lot of upgrade activity year-over-year so we had less volume this year.
As far as the Edge program the Edge program is going very well for us but I would tell you just to give you a sense it’s generating less than 1% of our profitability right now.
So this is not a significant portion of our portfolio but obviously given the competitive environment here.
First off let me just reiterate the fact that I know there has been a lot of questions around a price war and if you really look at what’s going on really what’s the shift of pricing is between service and equipment and really when you do the math there really isn’t much of a price decrease here.
It’s just a shift of how that’s marketed into the consumer market.
So obviously Edge is important to us from a competitive standpoint but I am not going to give guidance John on where our upgrade rate will be in ‘14.
As I said I will give more guidance here once we close the Vodafone transaction.
We have a shareholder vote here in a week.
So I think it’s – it would put us in a – at a very peculiar situation to give a further guidance at this point in time.
So I will give more guidance on that at the end of the first quarter.
So that’s where we stand.
Great thanks.
Evan let’s take the next question please.
Your next question comes from Phil Cusick of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys.
Thanks.
I guess two.
One can you help us think about Wireline margins next year how do you think about the issues of total revenue being sort of flat to down and mix issues versus cost cutting just trying to sort of scale the potential for Wireline margin growth? And then second on the OnCue platform can you give us some more color do you envision a full MSO over Wireless are out of region eventually versus more of a in region and sort of ancillary product? Thank you.
Hi thanks Phil.
Good morning.
So Wireline margin look I think that I had been pretty clear on this.
Coming into this year I said we would be flat given a lot of headwinds that we have from some of these startup products we have especially around the Redbox joint venture VDMS and some other things in there.
So look we are very optimistic that we can improve this margin in 2014.
As far as top line what I gave here today is we are very confident that we can sustain the 4% plus top line growth on the Wireline consumer piece of this.
And as you noticed we did our price ups here in the fourth quarter of this year which is different than what we have done in the past and that was to prepare us for obviously the January 1st which is when content cost go up in all of our contractual arrangements.
So we have put ourselves in a position this year to offset that content increase which we weren’t in a position last year.
So we have done some strategic things from a top line perspective.
Obviously enterprise continues to be a press point and I would say that we don’t plan for that to change in ’14 and I’ve said that coming into ’13 and leaving ’13 that I don’t think we’re going to see much of a change in our enterprise that top-line position in ’14.
So I think that the cost cutting measures of Verizon Lean Six Sigma some of the improvement in some of these other ancillary platforms where obviously we acquired Hughes Telematics that is now growing topline revenue coming into the fourth quarter of this year.
You probably saw today we just signed another agreement with Hyundai to acquire their business.
This is a growing platform but it does put pressure on us because we’re hiring people and it was a loss when we acquired it and continued to be a loss through ’13 and I think that could change some in ’14.
So there is a number of things here and I guess what I would say is I’m confident that we can improve the margin of our wireline business going into ’14.
As far as the OnCue acquisition look the focus here is really to accelerate the availability of the next generation IP Video service which will integrate into the FiOS video service and really what we’re trying to do is differentiate this even more so with fiber to the home versus others with the TV offerings and reducing the point in cost and this really accelerates us from if we were try to build IPTV versus buying the IPTV technology.
From a FiOS customer perspective we expect the benefits that they will have more elegant search and discovery interactivity and cost screen ease of use but also keep in mind with the acquisition of Verizon Wireless and becoming 100% ownership of that we also plan to take that platform and integrate it more deeply with our Verizon Wireless 4G LTE network.
So that really was the strategy behind this.
As far as we enable this platform to take us over the top obviously we have our video digital media services that we have been working on for 2.5 years we have just made two acquisitions related to that platform.
So look I mean we’re positioning ourselves strategically to be in a position to competitively compete around the whole mobile first world and video.
So I think that’s where we are.
Okay Evan let’s take the next question please.
Your next question comes from Michael Rollins of Citi Investment Research.
Please go ahead with your question.
First Fran if you can just give an update on the net debt for Verizon Wireless and then secondly can you talk about the total amount of cost cutting that the Verizon Wireless business achieved during 2013 that contributed to the margin expansion you have had in the past few different initiatives that you were working on.
And I was wondering if you can also share your aspirations in terms of the cost cutting potential for 2014.
Thanks.
So I guess this will be the last and final quarter that I ever have to do this hopefully.
Gross debt of $5.3 billion cash of $3.6 billion and net debt of $1.7 billion.
As far as the cost cutting side goes look I mean coming into ’13 we said that Verizon Wireless had already cut about $5 billion worth of cost out of their infrastructure.
We said that we were targeting them for another $2 billion in 2013 they actually exceeded that benchmark in 2013 and again I’m going to hold on 2014 here and I will give you more guidance when we get to the end of the first quarter and again it is all around our shareholder vote and the acquisition of the Vodafone transaction.
If I can just follow-up with a different question then.
On the pension side you mentioned the cash investment that you’re planning to make for ’14 where are you starting off the year in terms of the funding status and then where would that 1.2 billion roughly get you to?  Yeah so with the change in the discount rate and our assumptions around the return on assets are actual unfunded liability from the end of last year to the end of this year has improved by $2.6 billion.
So our unfunded liability at the end of the year is for pension is at $5.9 billion.
Now that also is very helpful from us well in the annuitization [ph] that we also did there in the – during the year of ‘13.
So it puts us in a very good position with the $1.2 billion minimum contribution that we have into the plan to really start to make this a 100% funded plan.
On the OPEB side of the house our unfunded liability went from $24 billion at the end of 2012 to $19 billion so a $4.2 billion improvement on that unfunded liability.
So when you look at our balance sheet even with the $8.1 billion of bonds that I paid off we also had a decrease of over $6 billion in our unfunded liability.
So the strength of our balance sheet has really taken off this year with almost $14 billion of a decline in our liabilities.
Thank you.
Evan let’s take the next question please.
Your next question comes from Brett Feldman of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks for taking the question.
Since we have seen some changes in competitive behavior I feel like we have been getting sort of gathered data points around who is taking share from who in the past you guys have always had pretty positive reporting ratios versus all your peers I know you don’t give that on a regular basis.
I am just curious can you either qualitatively or even quantitatively talk about how you feel about your net share gains versus your peers in light of the current environment?  Yes thanks Brett.
Well I think the fourth quarter will stand on its own at 1.7 million ads and 824 000 net phone ads with the best quarter we have had since we launched tablets of 625 000.
And I think that in a combination of itself will stand on its own.
But let’s just go back here a second from a competitive environment standpoint and I have said before we will compete and respond accordingly where we need to.
And if you recall coming out of the third quarter this question came up and I said look we are seeing a segment of our base that is responding to some of the competitive offers and we will make the necessary changes that we need to to compete against those changes.
And if you look at our churn in the fourth quarter which was unusual because of a seasonal season we normally would go up in churn from the third quarter to the fourth quarter.
In this year we sequentially declined by 1 basis point.
So I think that tells you that we responded to our base we listened to our customers and this is what we do.
Now the competitive environment has changed again here in the fourth quarter and you can expect us to respond accordingly.
The other thing I would hedge ourselves on that we have built our brand.
They are very long-term and we built loyalty with our customers and they come to us because of our network quality and superiority.
We have if you look at the coverage of our LTE network compared to our coverage we are by far multiple times more coverage than our competitors and some as much as five and six times more coverage than our competitors.
If you look at our Share Everything Plans we continue to change them.
We launched a new price plan.
You probably picked up yesterday to go after our basic phone customers.
And look I mean we are going to compete in all devices in all markets.
I think that another competitive advantage we have is our customer service and the quality of that customer service.
If you look at the new store we launched which we call our destination store in Minneapolis I mean we are going after smartphone customers but it goes well beyond that from a competitive standpoint.
I mean if you look at that store we now are going after the sports and fitness with all kinds of devices music gamers.
We have a whole home section.
And of course we have been talking about the machine-to-machine and tablets for a while now.
So again I think there is more competitiveness than just one little price plan and we will respond accordingly and aggressively and continue to do what we are doing.
Great thanks for that color.
Evan we can take the next question now.
Your next question comes from David Barden of Bank of America.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Just first one Fran on FiOS and the quarter was a little soft relative to the trend but what I noticed was that the footprint path is inching up towards about 19 million the homes marketed to looks like it’s more in the mid 15 million.
Could you talk a little bit about kind of the plans for mining out the rest of the FiOS opportunity and how that might contribute to the expectations for healthy consumer growth? I guess that’s number one.
And number two if I can just follow-up on something you have talked about on the Verizon Vodafone transaction I think Fran you have some estimates about what you thought the flow back was going to be and how it’s going to impact trading in your stock and obviously I am sure there has been a lot of hedging and things that have moved around.
If you could maybe give us a little bit of an update on what you think the movement around the stock is going to be around the transaction based on your latest data will be super helpful.
Thanks.
So on FiOS yeah so let’s put it in perspective I mean we came out of the third quarter with an extremely good quarter of growth and the environment became extremely competitive and that the competition went after price and dropped pricing accordingly and we were pretty cautious on how we responded to that.
We didn’t believe that we wanted to chase some of those price points in the fourth quarter because we know from our customer experience that a lot of customers do not want us intruding in their houses during the holiday season.
So we were cautious on how we responded to that and obviously that led to some slower growth that we had from a net add perspective but here is what I would say is if you look at what we have done in 2013 and the concentration of the Copper to fiber migration which we believe is a more profitable customer at the end of the day.
They are just voice and DSL customers.
So if you look at our internet volumes we actually did over 42 000 more net adds in ’13 with internet on FiOS than we did in 2012.
So that really was the concentration and we exceeded that by 30 000.
So we came into the year thinking we would get 300 000 and we did 330 000 and what we’re seeing from this space is once we move them with the same price plans either by voice or DSL they are then buying up as their only voice.
They are coming over to our FiOS Quantum offer and if they come over they are buying up FiOS Quantum pretty significantly which is generating ARPUs in the range of $15 to $20 over and above what they were as a Copper customer.
And as you know we gave a disclosure of 55% of these folks are coming in at 50 megabits and above and we will continue to increase our speeds.
We’re working on a new router that’s going to give better in-home performance with all the extra wireless devices that are going on.
So when you think about profitability and topline growth FiOS Quantum is extremely important because when you look at broadband versus TV if you look you don’t have the contents of broadband is actually more profitable than the TV product.
Now having said that as I said in the third quarter there is a lag once we move these people in marketing to them and getting to move to the TV.
So TV did lag this quarter and I expected it to lag this quarter and I expected to lag as we continue to migrate this extra less than 1 million homes that we have less than our FiOS footprint.
But also want to be clear that we’re not going to build beyond what our current LFAs are and as you said we have 18.5 million homes pass now with about 15.3 open for sale on internet and about 15 for TV.
So we have plenty of opportunity here but I would also tell you that again with even with the slower growth in the fourth quarter we still took market share and continue to increase our penetration and New York continues to be our fastest growing market with the most penetration this year over any other market we had in the TV arena.
So I think that’s what sets us up for ’14.
We will continue to execute on the same things that we have done this year which is concentration on migration and getting those quality customers to buy up in their bundles.
On the second question of flow back look I think it's getting harder and harder for me to zero in on what the flow back is given what the market has done and the short positions and everybody positioning where they are.
As we said when we came into this transaction we thought the net flow back would be around 300 million shares but keep in mind we will have somewhere between 4.1 billion and 4.2 billion shares outstanding.
So it's a pretty insignificant minimal amount based on the volume of daily trading that we think we will have.
So that’s really all the thought I can give you on the flow back at this point in time.
Evan next question please.
Your next question comes from Mike McCormack of Jefferies.
Please go ahead with your question.
Maybe a couple of things you commented regarding the Edge program.
It seems like some of the competitors out there moving to EIP which you can argue is a pretty bad deal for consumer and a pretty good for carriers.
You know why wouldn’t you guys just get more active in the Edge marketplace and also that subsidy back for the consumer and then secondly on the enterprise side it seems like the industry overall is pretty weak.
Can you just comment like the different pushback pieces [ph] there between legacy and new migration? What is the pricing environment look like from a competitive standpoint? Are you seeing any change there? Thanks.
Look on the Edge program as I said earlier we will respond where we think we need to respond.
I’m not going to get into what others have done between Edge and subsidy.
I mean we had a very successful fourth quarter and what we launched in the marketplace they were receptive to that.
We ran a lot of promotions in the fourth quarter and it drove a lot of growth to our business and look I mean again we will continue to do what we do best which is we add customers and we are profitable.
On the enterprise side of the house look I mean this is becoming a more and more struggling event here given the uncertainty of the government.
Then as you now look to what is more concerned now is the President has nominated Senator Baucus which who was leading the tax rate format.
He has now been nominated to Ambassador of China which means now that could delay some reform.
Now others are picking it up but this just gives more room for caution as to what is going to happen in ‘14 are we going to get tax reform what about the expenders they haven’t talked about expenders at all.
There is a large cliff that we hit here on December 31 which was we lost a lot of credits and obviously the accelerated depreciation deduction is gone.
So there is a lot of things that are putting enterprise back on their heels and people are just looking for cost-cutting measures which mean that means I take a top line decrease in order to maintain that business.
From a public sector perspective look I mean the federal government our sector there is declining double-digits year-over-year and that is obviously putting a lot of pressure here.
There are opportunities in that segment that we are exploring but the way I would look at this is you have seen us make some moves here around EdgeCast and upLynk and video digital media services and you have seen us make some other moves in our cloud and what we have recently launched with our new cloud products in a beta test.
So within security cloud datacenters and our advanced communications arena we are growing revenue year-over-year even more significantly even strategic services overall.
So there are certain niches that are growing but unfortunately have not enough to offset the other declines that we are seeing just form the public sector and some of these other pressures that we are getting from the large enterprise customers.
So again I think ‘14 will be pretty much flat with where ‘13 was.
I don’t expect it to get any worse but it will be a tough slope for ‘14.
Fran you have talked about in the past I think the percentage of customers just because that many years probably but percentage of customers have already moved from legacy product into IP Ethernet is there a metric you can put around that as far as the customer base goes?  Mike to be honest I don’t know that off the top of my head I am sorry.
Okay thank you.
Evan let’s take the next question please.
Your next question comes from John Mark Warren of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks.
I was just wondering on FiOS Quantum you have seen had a lot of success getting customers to upgrade from lower speeds like 10 megabits per second to 50 are you – is that typically a one-time boost or do you see customers continuing to come back for more speed?  Yes John thanks for the question.
We actually continue to see customers come back.
And if you think about this this is like when you are in your home if you have one or two wireless devices running off of that WiFi at 10 megabits and you start to put three or four devices on that guess what you are not getting 10 megabits to those wireless devices anymore you are getting something significantly less than that.
So the only way to compensate for that is to increase the speed into that router so we see customers 50 75 100.
I mean as I said we are going to come out with a new proprietary router that’s going to even increase the speeds even more that are available for those wireless devices as people start to saturate the inside at their homes with tablets and other machine-to-machine connections.
So this is an ongoing upgrade that customers are doing.
We do this very seamlessly within the Verizon’s FiOS TV product or online where we pop up things within your TV.
You can just click the okay button if you want to upgrade right there and then it automatically does it.
There is no phone call needed.
So we make it very easy for customers to do that but yes we see customers coming back for the second time.
Okay.
Evan if we can take the next question that will be great.
Your next question comes from Kevin Smithen of Macquarie.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks.
We started to see a bit of a resurgence in access line M&amp;A activity in the industry.
Are there opportunities for Verizon to divest Wireline assets in 2014 or 2015 in order to increase the Wireless mix and de-leverage the balance sheet and if Wireline is a third of revenue today where would you like to see that in three years?  Well thanks for the question Kevin.
It’s pretty little foresight there on divestitures but look I think Lowell and I have always said we will always look at opportunities for anything.
And if we feel that we can get an adequate return on our – for our shareholders based on the investments we have and the properties we have then we will execute on that.
So look I guess I would say we always have an open mind but at this point there is nothing on the table for us around that.
The properties we have are performing extremely well and we will continue to execute on that.
As far as the three year view I guess I will talk maybe a little bit more of that when we get to the end of the first quarter call but again I’m not going to give anymore further guidance.
But look I think we’re very satisfied with the asset portfolio we have and with the acquisition of Verizon Wireless and only 100% of that asset you’re going to see us do more things around converged solution.
So the wireline assets in my view will actually become more valuable over the longer term here with our footprint.
So at this point I would say we’re open but nothing on the table at this point in time.
And you mentioned the loss some of the tax credits for bonus appreciation et cetera.
When you think about your capital budget for the year you know are you going to continue to spend (indiscernible) you spend last year for wireless given some of the spectrum and strong subscriber growth or are there risk to the CapEx number to fund some of the tax prior to cash taxes that are likely?  No because I think look we gave guidance on CapEx it's 15.5 billion to 17 billion.
As I said before obviously wireless won't take a higher percentage of that CapEx spend and on the other areas of the business will take a lower portion of that CapEx spend especially as the FiOS builds continues to slow here.
But no there is no strategic change in the way we view our investments and I don’t do investments based on tax law.
I didn’t accelerate CapEx spending when the accelerated depreciation went into effect.
I don’t anticipate on the slow capital spending because it's not there anymore.
So I think we will just continue to drive and execute on what we have from a cash tax standpoint as I said before obviously our cash taxes will go up with the acquisition of the 45% of wireless.
I guided for next year when we announce the acquisition that we would be somewhere in 35% to 36% ETR.
So I think at this point that’s where we will keep it and I will give you more color once we come out of the first quarter.
Evan let’s take another question please.
Your next question comes from Joe Mastrogiovanni of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead with your question.
Fran you have potentially some spectrum opportunities in the secondary market and ten you’ve a couple of spectrum options coming up.
How should we think about the way you prioritize the low band spectrum versus maybe the mid and high band spectrum.
Well look I mean it's obviously I think we have shown that we have made the secondary market a very viable market.
We have done a number of swaps with Leap T-Mobile.
Sales with T-Mobile and AT&amp;T and some swaps even with AT&amp;T in that key sale that we did.
As far as our portfolio obviously we like the 700 megahertz for the coverage of LTE that we did.
AWS is our sweet spot at this point in time which is the spectrum that we have been swapping for.
So we have a very efficient portfolio of spectrum and I think we have shown through the years that we are very efficient on how we use spectrum.
Keep in mind that as I said we will participate in the auctions because we will need more spectrum but right now our current position is with the AWS we have and that we’re launching in markets that you know in New York and San Francisco Chicago.
We’re lighting that spectrum up.
It's pretty much completed in New York.
We will continue to add to that but keep in mind though too that we will also reappropriate our 3G spectrum to 4G.
We will take that PCS spectrum that’s been running in our 3G network as the (indiscernible) of the volume of that network continues to decrease as we move more 3G phones to 4G.
We will reappropriate that spectrum over to the 4G LTE.
So again you know 3 to 4 years we’re in a very good space from a spectrum holding position but we will participate in the upcoming auctions.
Evan next question please.
Your next question comes from Jonathan Chaplin of New Street Research.
Please go ahead with your question.
I wonder if I can just follow-up on that last question.
So I think the next lot [ph] of spectrum is going to come on to be on to the market as AWS-3.
So two questions around that first of all do you see that as a valuable spectrum block that you really want to be a part of or is there enough opportunity within repurposing some of your 3G spectrum for 4G that that’s not critical and then in terms of deploying that spectrum as it is valuable to you does it require you to put more equipment on the tower or because it’s contiguous to existing spectrum that you are deploying can you do it with all existing equipment? Thanks.
Yes.
So Jonathan on this one look we will participate in the options that are coming up whether it’s the AWS-3 or if it’s the broadcast or whatever the FCC is going to auction here in the future.
We have to build our portfolio for the next 10 years out.
So as we have done in the past and we have shown that when auctions come up it’s opportunistic they only come up one time so you need to participate.
And that’s what we showed when we won our 700 megahertz and we won the A and the B blocks a while ago and now we have repositioned that portfolio.
We have launched the 700 megahertz in the AWS that we have.
So AWS-3 is pleasing to us.
Some of the higher frequencies is pleasing to us.
So again I won’t get into – I am not an engineer so I am not quite sure what happens to have it within the network in order to enable these spectrums but don’t think it’s much based on what we have done with AWS.
So we will participate in upcoming auction.
Great thank you very much.
Okay Evan last question and then we’ll wrap up.
Your last question comes from Jennifer Fritzsche of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead with your question.
Great thanks.
Fran I just wanted to see if you could give us a little quantify this what I’d call the smart to smartphone device upgrade opportunity you said you are seeing ARPA lift there but between the 3G and 4G I know there is more usage but is there a way to quantify that kind of ARPA lift you are seeing with these smart to smart movers?  Yes.
Look I am probably not going to give you that Jennifer.
Look if you look at a 3G usage moving to a 4G we know that and we have seen it in our base that as soon as you get on the 4G with video consumption and the quality of video your usage goes up.
So obviously it’s hard for us to quantify this because with our Share Everything Plan you are obviously buying a bundle of minutes that you can share among all devices.
But as you can see from our service revenue growth our ARPA lift our increasing connections it’s all coming together as to how these plans were designed.
And as I said we still have a lot of 3G customers and a lot of basic customers for ‘14 that give us a lot of opportunity.
So I think I will leave it there and the numbers will speak for itself.
Thanks Fran.
Thank you for your questions today.
Before we end the call I’d like to turn it back over to Fran.
Okay thanks Mike.
Look our industry has a very healthy competitive environment and we are forecasting continued strong demand for video and broadband across multiple networks.
As I said Verizon will compete aggressively in all of our markets.
We will focus on delivering a superior customer experience one of the best networks in the world.
Our customer value proposition and the efficiency delivery of our services will generate growth and profitability.
This focus on profitable growth will create value for our shareholders provide the earnings and cash flow necessary to reinvest in our networks and platforms for future growth and innovation.
We are very excited about the future.
We will continue to invest innovate around solutions deliver for our customers our shareholders and our Verizon employees.
So again Happy New Year everyone and thank you for joining our call this morning.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Verizon First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be opened for questions following the presentation.
(Operator Instructions) Today’s conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Michael Stefanski Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Thanks David.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
This is Mike Stefanski and I am here with our Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Before we get started let me remind you that our earnings release financial and operating information the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website.
Replays and a transcript of this call will be made available on our website.
I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement.
Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties.
Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon’s filings with the SEC which are also available on our website.
This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also available on our website.
The quarterly growth rates disclosed in this presentation are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.
Before Fran takes you through the details of our quarterly performance I would like to cover a few details about our reported results.
For this discussion let’s turn to Slide 3.
For the first quarter we reported earnings of $1.15 per share on a GAAP basis.
Our reported results reflect a partial quarter with 55% ownership of Verizon Wireless in just over five weeks to full ownership.
Since this transaction to acquire Vodafone’s stake closed on February 21.
The weighted average common shares outstanding for the first quarter were 3 430 million.
Given the issuance of 1 275 million new shares of Verizon as part of the deal consideration.
The timing of the closing had no effect on our consolidated income statement for Wireless segment above the operating income line since we’ve always had operating control of Verizon Wireless.
All of the post-closing effects of full ownership are below the operating income line.
Our reported first quarter EPS of $1.15 includes several non-operational items that I would like to review.
The first item is a gain on the sale of our minority interest in Vodafone Omnitel.
This resulted in a one-time after-tax gain of approximately $1.9 billion or $0.55 per share.
This is a non-cash item as it was part of the transaction consideration.
The next item is a non-operational charge related to debt redemption.
During the first quarter we announced a partial make whole redemption and a cash tender offer for various notes with maturities over the next five years and coupons of 5.5% entire.
We regained $5.4 billion of notes through the make whole redemption and tender offer.
The associated net pretax costs were $923 million.
After tax this resulted in a charge of $575 million or $0.17 per share.
We also incurred interest in financing costs related to the wireless transaction.
As we did in the third and fourth quarters we are excluding these charges from adjusted results for the period January 1 through the February 21 closing.
These transaction costs total $411 million on a pretax basis resulting in an after tax charge of $260 million or $0.08 per share.
Excluding the effect of these three non-operational items adjusted earnings per share was $0.84 for the first quarter compared with $0.68 a year ago or growth of 2013.5%.
Adjusted EPS of $0.84 reflects 55% ownership of Verizon Wireless for the period January 1 through February 21 and full ownership for the remainder of the quarter.
Of course future quarters will include a 100% of the Wireless net income and access to all the Wireless cash flows.
For an illustrated non-GAAP view of adjusted earnings assuming full ownership of Verizon Wireless for the entire first quarter let’s take a look at Slide 4.
The elements for this illustrated view are based on the adjustments in the pro forma financial statements filed with the SEC for the periods ending September 30 and December 31 2013.
We also review these transaction effects on February 24 call when we provided some guidance for items below operating income.
Adjusted EPS of $0.84 would have been $0.91 per share assuming 100% ownership of Wireless for the full quarter.
Again on a non-GAAP illustrated basis.
The adjustments required to demonstrate this are relatively straightforward.
The 45% of Wireless net income attributable to Vodafone for the period January 1 to February 21 totaled $1.2 billion and would be added to adjusted earnings.
The transaction related cost for the same time period would be subtracted.
Accounting for these effects adjusted earnings would be $3.8 billion with an effective tax rate of about 35%.
The diluted shares outstanding that we use for this illustrated EPS calculation were 4 149 million shares which assumes the newly issued shares were outstanding for the entire quarter.
In summary the impact of having a 100% ownership of Wireless for only part of the first quarter was worth $0.07 of earnings per share.
With that I will now turn the call over to Fran.
Thanks Mike.
Good morning everyone.
As I stated on our last few conference calls we have great confidence in our ability to generate strong financial performance in 2014.
Over the years our steady and consistent investments in networks and platforms have supported innovative products and services and fueled our growth.
Our wireless and wireline networks will continue to be the hallmark of our brands and provide the fundamental strength upon which we build our competitive advantage.
Now that the Wireless transaction is behind us we have the immediate financial benefit of earnings accretion from the deal and full access to the very significant cash flows of Verizon Wireless.
As we have previously stated we are targeting 4% consolidated top-line growth in 2014 with an expansion of our consolidated EBITDA margin.
The ingredients for success are unchanged solid operational execution and a disciplined focus on meeting our financial objectives and creating value for our shareholders.
With an eventful first quarter behind us I’d say we are off to a strong start.
We maintained our growth momentum and delivered excellent top-line and bottom-line results.
While the timing of the Wireless transaction closing caused some reporting complexity our $0.84 adjusted earnings per share represent a growth of 23.5% and would be even greater if we assume full ownership of Wireless for the entire quarter.
We have consistently delivered high quality earnings growth with double-digit increases in reported and adjusted earnings per share in eight of the last nine quarters.
Our cash flow generation in the quarter was also impressive and we continue to invest in our networks and platforms.
Our Wireless results were very good with service revenue growth of 7.5% and a service EBITDA margin of 52.1% an expansion of a 170 basis points.
In FiOS our positive revenue growth trends and scale drove a 6.2% increase in consumer revenue.
Total wireline operating revenues declined 0.4% in the quarter which is our best result in nearly three years.
In terms of profitability our EBITDA margin was 22.3% up 90 basis points.
Now let’s get into our first quarter performance in more detail starting with consolidated results on Slide 6.
Total operating revenues grew 4.8% in the first quarter continuing our consistent top-line growth trend and was our highest growth rate in the past five quarters.
Top-line growth was once again driven by Wireless and FiOS.
In terms of new revenue streams machine-to-machine and telematics were still relatively small are beginning to emerge and make positive contributions with revenue growth in excess of 40%.
Our focus on operating efficiency and cost controls is enabling our ability to compete effectively and drive consistent profitable growth.
In the first quarter consolidated operating expenses grew 2%.
Operating income growth was 15.1%.
We have posted double-digit growth in operating income in eight of the last nine quarters.
Consolidated EBITDA grew 9.3% while our EBITDA margin expanded by 160 basis points to 36.7%.
Let’s take a look at cash flow results next on Slide 7.
When looking at our cash flows it is important to keep in mind that post transaction we have immediate access to the full Verizon Wireless cash flows.
And apart from a contractual tax distribution in the second quarter for the stub period we will no longer be making any cash distributions to Vodafone.
As a result the amount of cash available to us will be significantly greater this year.
This is true for the simple reason that under the partnership structure 45% of excess cash at Wireless would at some point be distributed to Vodafone.
As we discussed on our February 24 call there will be some lack of comparability between current and prior periods in the statement of cash flows.
In 2014 the cash flows from operations line will include higher cash payments for interest and taxes.
The cash flows from financing section will have lower cash distributions to Vodafone and higher overall dividend payments to our shareholders due to the increase in shares outstanding.
In the first quarter cash flows from operations were $7.1 billion which included an incremental $1.3 billion of cash interest payments and $200 million of pension funding that we did not had in the first quarter of 2013.
In spite of these additional uses of cash and higher capital spending free cash flow totaled $3 billion in the quarter.
For illustrative purposes free cash flow available to Verizon in the first quarter was more than $1 billion higher than a year ago assuming that 45% of the free cash flow at Wireless would have been distributed to Vodafone.
Again the point here is more free cash flow available at the corporate level than prior to the transaction even after higher interest payments and cash taxes.
Capital expenditures in the quarter totaled $4.2 billion up $548 million with all the increase in Wireless.
With our 4G LTE coverage build complete Wireless spending is now focused on adding capacity intensity to our existing coverage and utilizing our AWS spectrum to further optimize the network.
As we have previously stated our estimate for total capital spending in 2014 will be in the range of $65 billion to $70 billion.
In addition to the transaction closing we had a large amount of financing activities in the quarter.
At closing our gross debt was approximately $114 billion.
Since then we announced the make whole redemption and a tender offer did some debt restructuring and had $2.5 billion of notes mature.
We ended the quarter with gross debt of just under $110 billion and net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 2.5 times.
Our balance sheet remains strong and we have the financial flexibility needed to grow the business.
Our priorities for cash utilization are unchanged.
We will continue to invest in our networks acquire Spectrum and return to our pre-transaction credit ratings profile within four to five years.
We do not need to execute any major acquisitions to drive our business model.
We understand the importance of our dividends and our board of directors has shown its support by approving dividend increases in each of the last seven years.
In terms of acquiring new spectrum we will continue to be opportunistic.
Earlier this month we signed agreements to acquire the wireless licenses of Cincinnati Bell along with some power lease.
We will continue to look at the secondary markets and we will consider the opportunities in the upcoming FCC auctions.
Now let’s move into a review of the segments starting with Wireless on Slide 8.
Our consistent investment in Wireless is the foundation of our success and drives our leadership in network quality reliability and the overall customer experience.
We will continue to build and expand our network advantage in 4G LTE.
Our focus is on deploying capital to add density to our network and deliver new services such as VoLTE and multicasting to enrich our customers’ wireless experience.
Regardless of what others claim recent national surveys from widely recognized third-party organizations confirm our leadership.
Our own dry testing which we have been doing for years shows that we consistently deliver the best customer experience market-by-market and day-by-day across the United States.
Total Wireless revenues grew to $20.9 billion up 6.9% driven by strong service revenue growth of 7.5%.
We generated $9.4 billion of EBITDA in the quarter an increase of 11.3%.
Our Service EBITDA margin in the quarter was 52.1%.
There has certainly been a lot of investor attention centered on the effects of equipment monthly payment plan options for customers.
Let me be very clear and provide the financial impacts of our Verizon EDGE plans for the first quarter.
As you would expect the number of customer activations on EDGE increased sequentially and is also running ahead of our expectations.
The estimated EBITDA benefit from the accounting treatment under these plans was worth about $165 million which equates to less than 2% of total EBITDA in the quarter.
The benefit to our service EBITDA margin was approximately 90 basis points.
While EDGE had a favorable effect on profitability our results demonstrate that we delivered EBITDA growth and margin expansion over and above the benefits of equipment monthly payment plans.
Let’s now turn to a more detailed look at Wireless revenue per account beginning on Slide 9.
Service revenue in the first quarter was driven by 4G smartphone adoption and tablet growth and increasing data usage.
In mid of February we introduced our More Everything plan which provides more value through simplified data allowances and more choice for customers.
In addition we revised our monthly pricing under Verizon EDGE for customers who buy their devices on installment payments.
Last week we extended this reduced monthly pricing to customers who are currently out of contract.
These pricing actions improve the customer value proposition and will help drive further penetration of 4G smartphones and tablets and stimulate usage on our very cost-effective 4G LTE network.
Retail postpaid revenue per account or ARPA grew 6.3% to nearly $160 per month in the first quarter.
The lower monthly pricing under the EDGE plans had a minimal impact on ARPA this quarter.
Going forward continued EDGE adoption will likely have a greater impact on ARPA due to the shift from service to equipment revenue.
Our reduced monthly pricing for out of contract customers will also affect the rate of service revenue growth over time.
We ended the quarter with 35.1 million postpaid accounts and connections per account grew to 2.77 up 3.7% from a year ago.
More Everything plan adoption continues and we ended the quarter with 50% of postpaid accounts on these shared data plans.
The majority of these accounts are in data tiers of 4 gigabytes or higher and usage continues to drive migration to the higher data tier.
Let’s take a closer look at connections growth on Slide 10.
In the first quarter postpaid gross adds totaled 3.6 million up 4.1% about 56% of our gross adds were smartphones and 33% were tablets and other internet devices.
Retail postpaid churn was 1.07% up six basis points year-over-year.
On a net basis we added 549 000 new retail connections in the first quarter.
Postpaid net adds were 539 000 and prepaid were 10 000.
At the end of March we had 103.3 million total retail connections.
Our industry-leading postpaid connections base reached 97.3 million and prepaid totaled just over 6 million.
The first quarter postpaid add mix included 866 000 4G smartphones and a record 634 000 tablets.
We also had 56 000 other connected device adds primarily home phone connects.
These additions were offset by net declines in basic and 3G smartphones resulting in a negative total phone net adds.
Our postpaid upgrade rate was 6.5% in the quarter; more than 88% of these upgrades were smartphones.
Consistent with our plan to drive smartphone penetration and 4G adoption about 1.5 million or 27% of our smartphone upgrades were from basic phones.
More than 50% of the remaining smartphone upgrades were 3G to 4G which we monetized through higher data usage and lower cost to serve.
Next let’s turn to Slide 11 and take a look at device sales and our progress on 4G LTE.
Postpaid device activations which include both gross adds and upgrades totaled 9.9 million an increase of 2%.
We have 7.6 million smartphone activations of which nearly 90% were 4G.
Smartphone penetration increased to 72% of our total phones.
We ended the quarter with 61.3 million smartphones and about 64% of those were 4G.
So we still have about 22 million 3G smartphones and a little more than 23 million basic phones in our base which provides us with a good opportunity to move customers upgrade 4G smartphones.
We had our best tablet quarter ever activating 814 000 postpaid tablets virtually all of which were 4G.
This is more than double the amount from the first quarter last year and about 3% more than the fourth quarter.
Our postpaid tablet base now stands at 4.3 million so again we have a great opportunity to expand this category and generate growth in 2014 and beyond.
Overall 4G device penetration continues to steadily increase.
At the end of the first quarter 49% of our retail postpaid connections were 4G up from 28% a year ago.
Data and video usage on our network continues to rise; currently about 73% of our total data traffic is carried on the 4G LTE network.
We will continue to focus on expanding our network advantage investing to add density and to optimize our 4G LTE network ensuring that customers are receiving the quality and consistent reliability they expect from our network.
Let’s move next to our Wireline segment starting with the review of our consumer and mass markets’ revenue performance on Slide 12.
In the Consumer business we continue to see positive revenue trends driven by FiOS.
For the last seven quarters Consumer revenues have grown in excess of 4%.
In the first quarter Consumer revenues were up 6.2% mass markets which include small business grew 4.9%.
FiOS now represents about 74% of Consumer revenue and we are sustaining strong double-digit growth.
In the first quarter FiOS consumer revenue grew 14.6% driven by customer additions pricing actions and quantum penetration.
About 51% of our FiOS internet customers subscribe to Quantum which speeds ranging from 50 megabits to 500 megabits per second.
We continue to focus on adding quality customers and generating profitable growth.
Residential broadband and video are very competitive markets and we continue to be disciplined in rational in our approach to customer acquisitions.
In Broadband we added 98 000 new FiOS internet customers in the first quarter and now have 6.2 million subscribers representing just under 40% penetration.
Overall net broadband subscribers in the quarter were a positive 16 000.
In FiOS video we added 57 000 new subscribers in the quarter.
Total FiOS video customers reached 5.3 million representing 35% penetration.
We also continue to make steady progress with fiber migration.
During the quarter we converted about 78 000 customers from copper to superior fiber technology.
This network initiative is important as we systematically reduce our dependence on older technologies.
We’ve begun to see the benefits from a maintenance perspective in what was one of the worst winters in recent memory in the Northeast.
Aside from maintenance savings and improvements in customer satisfaction conversions to fiber also provide a long-term opportunity for customers to purchase FiOS services which will result in additional recurring revenues.
Let’s turn to Slide 13 and review our overall Wireline segment revenue and profitability.
In the Enterprise space we continue to work through secular and economic challenges.
In the first quarter Global Enterprise revenue declined $164 million or 4.4%.
Revenue declines in Legacy Transport Services and CPE continue to outweigh growth in newer applications which are smaller in scale.
Strategic Services which include Private IP Ethernet Datacenter Cloud Security and Managed Services grew 1.8%.
This category includes some revenue from the public sector where we continue to experience revenue pressure.
In general Enterprise customers continue to be more focused on improving their cost structure rather than investing for growth which creates top-line pressure for us.
In our Global Wholesale business quarterly revenues declined $108 million or 6.4%.
While we had healthy demand in Ethernet services in the quarter it was not enough to offset the impact of technology migration price compression and other secular challenges.
From an overall Wireline perspective total operating revenues were down 0.4% EBITDA was $2.2 billion up 3.4% resulting in an EBITDA margin of 22.3% for the quarter.
Our strategic investments in network technology enable us to deliver reliable and high quality services and solutions to consumers small businesses and enterprise customers.
As we scale these key products and services they will improve our overall revenue mix and drive further operating efficiency.
We are focused on network operating efficiency through improvements in service provisioning and dispatch and repair rates.
We remain confident in our ability to increase Wireline EBITDA and expand the margin in 2014.
Our financial performance in the first quarter was a good start.
Let’s move next to our summary slide.
We are off to a strong start with a 4.8% increase in consolidated revenues and a 160 basis points EBITDA margin expansion.
We continue to post high-quality double-digit adjusted earnings growth and have a strong cash position with full access to growing wireless cash flow.
We are on track to achieve our revenue growth margin expansion and capital spending targets for the year.
We have good momentum in Wireless and expect to build on that strength driving further penetration of devices and extending our leadership position in 4G LTE.
In FiOS we expect to drive higher penetration in existing markets and continue to differentiate ourselves with the superior broadband products and are recently introduced FiOS Quantum TV service.
In the Enterprise space we will continue to aggressively market key platforms demonstrating that we have the unique set of capabilities to provide customer solution.
We remain focused on cost structure improvements to drive productivity and operating efficiencies throughout the entire business utilizing our Verizon Lean Six-Sigma principles.
With that I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.
Thank you Fran.
David we are now ready to take the questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question and answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Phil Cusick of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys thanks.
So I guess if we – just talk about subscribers on both sides churn up in Wireless leading to some handset share losses this quarter and FiOS softer too.
You seem to be responding to T somewhat with the Edge price cuts recently and allowing people to trade down.
How should we think about the impact to ARPA in 2Q and beyond from these trade-down effects? And then what about responding to cable on the FiOS side? Are you happy with the revenue ramp due to rate increases or do you try harder on subs as we go forward too? Thanks.
Hi good morning Phil.
So look I think that let’s talk about the subs and the churn and then we can talk about the EDGE pricing.
So first off I think if you put this quarter in perspective coming into this quarter from the fourth quarter on the end of the first quarter call here or the fourth quarter we talked about how we would take a very rational disciplined approach in responding to the competitive marketplace.
And that’s what you saw us do through the quarter.
Now having done that through January and February we saw a lot of pressure around our basic phone customer base which is why we launched our low-end 4G price point on More Everything to give those basic customers a chance and a view into getting over to a smartphone on our 4G network and we saw the improvements through the month of March.
In addition if you look at our tablet sales we said coming into this year that tablet would be a major growth trajectory for the entire industry and I think that’s what you are seeing.
You are going to see that this is a very underpenetrated marketplace and the more we drive tablets into our 4G network the more revenue stimulation we create.
So we had one of the best tablet quarters ever even without the Christmas season from the fourth quarter.
So when you look at the churn the churn was definitely impacted via the basic phone customer base.
So we actually had one of the best quarters ever adding 866 000 4G smartphones to our base and then another 634 tablets.
So the net effect of the loss was mainly within the basic phone base and some 3G smartphone customers which led us to then refresh our shared pricing to More Everything and then we also had to do some response to some of the EDGE pricing that the competitive marketplace offered in order for us to be competitive within those high-end data plans.
However I think it’s also important to say that these installment plans or EDGE plan is a very profitable plan to us.
So as we manage the business through prepaid reseller postpaid subscribers whether they go on a subsidy model or on an installment sale model these are all accretive to the business and very profitable plans.
So if you look at the ARPA obviously ARPA since it does not include equipment revenue the increase in the take rate of EDGE will definitely have an impact on that metric and do I expect the EDGE take rate to increase? Yes because if you look at the first quarter most of the EDGE products were sold through our direct channel and we will be expanding that to the indirect channels coming here at the very end of the first quarter mainly in the second quarter.
So the EDGE take rate will increase which will have an impact on service revenues and the ARPA metric.
So we will have to think about that going into the second quarter that's how report that.
But again I feel very confident in coming out of the first quarter with 7.5% of service revenue growth and the ARPA growth.
Now as far as the competitive pressures and some of the other moves we’ve made look I mean this goes back to when we first went to shared pricing we said that it would be dilutive in the short-term but it would drive usage on our network and by moving to EDGE and out of contracts and it’s a very small base of customers because you have to be on More Everything and include it in the base.
But obviously in the short-term this could create some revenue pressure for us but again it’s moving these customers to higher daily usage plans which drive more usage which in essence drives more revenue.
So the guidance we have given you I stand firm on because we’ve considered all of this into our forecast.
So I don’t really anticipate changing any of that at this point in time.
If I move over to the cable environment with FiOS and the net add there were two really main things here that happened.
First off we did a price increase in the fourth quarter and every time we do a price increase we always see some pressure in the churn in the following quarter.
But also we had probably one of the worst winters on record here and people did not want us in their houses to install FiOS.
But I think a couple of things to point out.
One is the competitive pressure from cable did increased in the first quarter.
\We did not respond immediately because of the environment that we were dealing in weather.
So we waited we became more aggressive in March and I would tell you that exiting the quarter our pipeline has grown and I have a viewpoint that the second quarter will be back on track from a net add perspective.
So Phil I’ll leave it at that and hopefully that answers your question.
That helps.
Thanks Fran.
Okay David let’s take the next question please.
And your next question comes from Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead with your question.
Great thanks a lot.
Good morning Fran.
Just to quickly follow-up on EDGE have you had any change in your view about the – kind of the sell activity of the EDGE product? It seems like T-Mobile and AT&amp;T are pushing these fairly broadly and in the past you have sort of said you want to reserve this for your best customers.
Any change there? And then perhaps you could touch a bit more on the network.
Where are you on the AWS rollout and have you solved all the congestion problems you were talking about a couple of quarters ago? Thanks.
Thanks Simon.
So first on EDGE look this is a customer choice.
This is not what I want.
It really comes into our customer choices and again we are going to allow our customers to choose the right plan for them and if you look at the economics it depends on what phone choose.
So if you decide to take a free iPhone that’s out in the marketplace today you may be better off going on the subsidy plan for two years end up paying less over time than the installment plan.
If you decide to take a very high-end handset then you may benefit by going to the installment sale.
So I think it’s a personal choice.
It also comes down to when do you think you are going to upgrade.
If you are a customer that wants to hold your phone on for a two-year period of time or longer it depends what plan you may choose.
If you decide you want to upgrade every year then obviously the installment plan is the plan that you have to select.
So this comes down to personal choice and again our sales forces is not compensated to drive traffic to any one sort of plan.
At the end of the day it’s all about customer satisfaction and treating our customers and the choices that they want.
So again its – the way I look at this is as we manage the business these plans are all profitable plans to us.
So it comes down to customer choice.
On the network side of the house I think that in my script I was pretty deliberate on making some statements there about some third-party studies that were done in the first quarter and I think that speaks to itself as to where we are with our network.
We are through the congestion.
The network performance is delivering what we expected to and as you see that in our CapEx spending we are going to be more leveled this year.
If you know historically we’ve always had more of a ramp from the first quarter to the fourth quarter.
We will be more leveled with that.
So we are really concentrating on the density and the diversification of the 4G network especially in the major cities and that’s where we have deployed AWS and we will continue to deploy AWS throughout the year more into the smaller cities and into the rural markets but right now the concentration is in the major cities like New York San Francisco Chicago et cetera.
So Simon that handles the question.
Thanks.
David we can take the next question now.
The next question comes from David Barden of Bank of America.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks guys thanks for taking the questions.
So Fran I apologize – I got – I have to ask one more on EDGE too which is that one of the things we saw coming out of the AT&amp;T result was that there is really two parts to these installment plans.
One is the mechanical part of changing the accounting where you take some of the service revenue and you put it into equipment revenue and that's the relatively easy part.
Another part of the puzzle thought was that if AT&amp;T was very aggressive at pushing this pricing out to people even if they didn't take the installment payment plan because they felt like it was an immunization tool against incremental competition.
So could you kind of share with us kind of what we should be expecting from Verizon in terms of not just how the EDGE program is going to unfold but how you're going to use the EDGE pricing as a competitive tool if it all? And then the second question if I could was on the Wireline margin side a pretty strong margin especially for 1Q which historically has seen lots of headwinds for bonuses and FICA and other things.
So I was wondering if you could kind of maybe give us a picture of whether we can use 1Q as a starting point for some of the Six-Sigma improvements and stuff that you are working on for the rest of the year? Thanks.
All right David.
Good thanks.
So on the mechanical side look I mean this is a fairly complex accounting for the EDGE pricing.
But really there is two main components to this.
First is you book up the receivable you record the revenue over the time but the amount of revenue that you record is based on the residual value that you assign and the liability that you set up for that telephone.
And I would say that our approach is going to be extremely conservative.
So we will probably be recording less revenue upfront under the installment sale just so that we can get a feel for what the uncollectability is going to be over time.
How much value these phones are going to be worth a year or two years out depending upon how many phones hit the market at the same place.
We do think that there could be some saturation effect in the outer years.
So we will take a very conservative approach here on the accounting.
As far as the competitive environment look I am not going to speak for anybody else.
I think we’ve shown we will be rational and deliberate on how we respond to the marketplace.
We are responding to our customers’ requests.
This recent move that we made related to allowing out of contract subscribers to move over to the EDGE pricing I believe is a good move for us because again it treats our customers the way they want to be treated and it is a retention tool for us.
So it will help to deliver a lower churn metric in the future.
And it’s up to them whether they want to move we are not going to deliberately move our customers it will be totally to their choice.
So that's from a competitive environment.
On the Wireline margin I think that at least everything Lowell and I had been talking about for the last two years is starting to finally come through on the metrics of Wireline.
And just a couple of things I think in the past I’d probably be sitting here asking for a test based on the Northeast corridor storms for the entire winter and one of the worst winters on record.
And normally I’d be sitting here talking about repair rates and how much expense we have to incur.
And here we sit with all of the copper to fiber migrations that we have done over the last two years we did another 70 000 plus this quarter.
This is really starting to come in through the maintenance side because fiber performance is much better during these weather conditions than copper performs.
So I think that all of the Verizon Lean Six-Sigma segments and I told you I was very confident coming into this year that we could improve the Wireline margin on a year-over-year basis and I hold to that confidence because of the things that I see between Verizon Lean Six-Sigma and also because of the copper to fiber migrations that we’ve been able to form.
In addition of course the good driver of revenue here is through our Quantum products and the uptake of our customers to the higher speeds and willing to pay more for those higher speeds and also the congestion in their houses because of the wireless devices they are running off of that Wi-Fi network really demand that fiber into the home that only FiOS can provide.
So I think everything together is driving this.
We can talk about the Enterprise segment but as I said coming into the year I think that best we will look at what we did last year and I think that’s where the position will be as we will probably not see any improvement in Enterprise in 2014.
Thanks David.
Great thanks.
David let’s take the next question.
And your next question comes from Mike McCormack of Jefferies.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys.
Thanks.
Fran and just one thought on smartphones obviously becoming a bigger part of the base.
Do you think smartphones are causing shorter handset lives meaning as we look at adoption of EDGE or other EIP programs with smartphones needing to be upgraded more often.
It's actually a better plan for the carriers and particularly for Verizon? And then secondly on Enterprise if you could just comment you made some comments regarding the decline in revenue there maybe rank order what you are seeing there with respect to technology change pricing and then demand? Thanks.
Okay.
So on the – look I think it’s way too early to tell yet how the impact of the installment plans will react on the upgrade rate.
I mean we’ve been at this for years and the upgrade rate is pretty steady.
You will have fluctuations based on seasonality but coming out of the first quarter we really didn’t see any change in that.
But we probably really won’t see the impact of early upgrades probably for another six to eight months.
So I think we are going to have to hold on what the expectation there is.
But I think the other thing too though is that just from an overall product set you know smartphones are as I said coming into the quarter are going to be a slower portion of the growth I think for the entire industry as we go forward as the penetration grows.
So we look to those other facets of the tablets and machine-to-machine and then if you look beyond that with VoLTE and multicast giving our customers even additional features that could potentially drive more usage on the network.
So that’s really what the future holds for us.
The smartphone category I do believe that upgrades may increase with EDGE but again I think it’s too early to tell.
On the Enterprise side look I think what we continue to see here is that the United States is the highest corporate tax payer in the world and until we fix that situation with all the discussions in Washington whether extenders will happen won’t happen whether we’ll get through tax reform or we won’t get the tax reform there is just too much uncertainty out there for enterprises to really lock down on where they are going in the future.
So I think this is where we are playing right now.
The public sector is still a major drag on our results and as you know we include the public sector in our enterprise results.
And that's also now impacting the strategic services because they are also starting to cut and move away from some of the more strategic products.
So I think for this year we just we are satisfied with being flat with last year which is what I came into this year saying and I think if we can resolve some of the issues and the uncertainties and I think we are on a better path for enterprise.
But right now I think we are where we are.
Okay Fran just on the pricing situation is that a competitive issue or is it just technology change that lowers the price points for the product sets? No look we are extremely competitive and have a great product set in our Enterprise space and obviously if we get into the details I mean if you look at security and look at our cloud services they are growing.
If you look at the huge Telematics platform that’s growing in the enterprise space but then we have all this legacy voice and core and even within the IP products you see the price compression happening on those products and each year it comes up for renewal you have a price compression.
So some of it is competitive but we are in an extremely competitive environment.
But look I mean people are just cutting enterprises are still focused on cost structure.
They are not increasing their investments they are increasing their spends.
So that’s where we sit.
Thanks Fran.
David let’s take the next question.
And your next question comes from Michael Rollins of Citi Investment Research.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi thanks good morning.
Fran I was wondering if we could just take a step back in the Wireline business and just talk a little bit about the homes where you don't have FiOS.
I think it’s – and maybe you can give an update on a number maybe roughly 8 million homes where you don't have plans to build FiOS.
What you do in those markets to stay competitive and to try to improve the financial outlook or is that a source of even possible asset optimization at some point? Thanks.
Sure Mike.
Thanks.
This could be a record quarter since you didn’t ask me about net debt on Wireless.
So that’s a good thing.
But look on the FiOS and the copper houses so within the FiOS footprint as we said we now have less than 1 million homes left that are on copper.
So we will continue to migrate them.
Outside of the FiOS footprint obviously really we are taking two measures there.
One is the Wireless portfolio and replacing some of that that old voice legacy copper voice with our LTE voice product that Wireless has been selling across the nation for almost two years now called Home Phone Connect.
Within Wireline they have a very similar product called VoiceLink which in essence is the same thing.
So we will try to replace that copper legacy with those technologies.
But look I mean outside this is kind of where you say it’s you have to nurture it and harvest what you have and we know that we are not going to be able to compete with speed in that environment and we will continue to do the best we can.
Now there will be certain areas maybe another year or so where we may look to extend the fiber a bit and include some small businesses which we compete extremely well in within the FiOS footprint and they are very profitable customers.
But beyond that Mike I think we are in harvest mode and we will continue to do the best we can with the technologies we have as alternatives for our customers.
Thanks very much.
David next question.
Your next question comes from John Hodulik of UBS.
Please go ahead with your question.
Okay thanks guys.
Fran just quickly back to EDGE if we could can you give us a sense of what the take rates you are seeing on smartphone sales these days? I think you said that it increased with the change in pricing but if you could give us some color there that would be great.
And then maybe the percentage of smartphones now that are on Edge pricing.
And then maybe if possible how that is going to evolve over time especially now that you are moving some of the off-contract customers over to the new pricing? Yes thanks John.
So as far as the take rate on EDGE I would tell you that we were less than 15% in the first quarter from a take rate.
I expect that to potentially double with the launch of this payment plan option within our indirect channel.
I would also say that it is going to become more and more difficult for us to separate out and give a normalized basis with and without EDGE.
And the reason I say that is as we start to launch this in our indirect channel you are going to get into all kinds of confusion of how the commission works who bought the phone who is doing – we will do the installment on that but we may not have actually sold the phone to the indirect.
They may have bought it outright.
So there is implications with how compensation will work.
So although we gave you separate data here in the first quarter because it was easy because it was just within our direct channel I think that is going to become more complicated going out here.
So from a take rate perspective it’s hard for me to tell what the take rate will be.
But I do believe it will probably double into the second quarter with the launch of our indirect channel John.
So that's really all I can talk about on the EDGE.
It’s too early for us to tell what the rate will be.
Okay but in terms of the percentage of smartphones in the base that are on EDGE is it sort of mid single-digits at this point? It’s less than 2%.
Less than 2% got it okay.
All right thanks Fran.
Thanks.
David next question.
Your next question comes from Amir Rozwadowski of Barclays.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you very much.
Fran two areas I would like to touch on and this is sort of dovetailing on the prior question.
You mentioned that EDGE penetration will increase potentially doubling next quarter.
I was wondering if you could give us how much of your earnings growth is attributed to sort of your expectations of rising penetration of EDGE? And then secondly now that you've fully integrated the contribution of the Wireless business from Vodafone how should we think about the quarterly progression of earnings now that there is a larger portion of your revenue is coming from one – what may argue – one could argue is a less fluctuating wireless business which may now include less contribution to subsidy costs if EDGE penetration rises? Thanks a lot.
Sure Amir.
Thanks so on the EDGE and the contribution look as I just said to the previous question it’s going to be very very hard for me to start to separate this given the indirect channel.
Look I think the guidance we have given I stand behind the guidance that we’ve given we’ll do our best to try to give some clarity in this going forward but as I said it’s going to be a cloudy environment and it’s hard for me to sit here today to say oh EDGE is going to contribute X basis points of my profitability.
I just don’t know because I don’t know what the take rate will be.
And I want to make sure we talk about take rate not penetration.
So it’s going to be the take rate of new additions not the penetration of the base.
As far as quarterly earnings this is a great question because historically you would see more of an uptick in the second and third quarters.
And I think now that we have a 100% of Wireless you are going to see a more consistent earnings per share for us going forward other than the fourth quarter obviously which is more seasonal.
So that has its own issues.
But I think you are going to see a more consistent first second and third quarter and then the fourth quarter will have its own decline because of the seasonality with that.
So that’s a good question and thanks for asking.
Thanks a lot for your incremental color Fran.
David let’s take another question please.
And your next question comes from Kevin Smithen of Macquarie.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks can you talk a little about the recent FCC regulatory comments regarding net neutrality and the broadcast auction rules; what your positions are on this and how you think this evolves over the next several months? Yes so I know the FCC was issuing an order today on net neutrality.
I have not had a chance to look at the order.
We will be excited to read that order and then we can give our comments on that.
So unfortunately being on the call I have not seen it and been updated on that.
And as far as the auctions go look I think that we are obviously preparing for those auctions.
As I talked about in the beginning here with our gross debt we are preparing our balance sheet and our financial wherewithal to participate in these auction is coming up.
And look as we continue to look at these rules and work through these rules we will continue to – behind the scenes if you will work with the FCC to get the rules that we need.
But it’s an important step forward for the pool of spectrum available to meet our customer needs and we will certainly take advantage of what the FCC is working on as far as the auctions go.
And when can we expect to hear more details about your video strategy? I think you said last quarter it would be soon.
So is it still soon or is it very soon? Well this is – Kevin this is on the over-the-top type strategy or?  Yes and just EdgeCast and VDMS and all of the aggregation of the intellectual property that you bought in the last 12 18 months.
Yes so video – Verizon video digital media services is ramping up.
We are still in what we would call a dataset with a lots of content providers and testing the system and I believe as I said before that will – that revenue will start to ramp in 2014.
So that’s the first step in just putting content through and digitalizing that content potentially inserting ads into that content.
Obviously we added the uplink and the EdgeCast assets to that and really that was in preparation to prepare for the over-the-top if you will.
But I think it’s still way too early to tell on the on queue acquisition obviously the first priority for us it IPTV.
But as you overlay that to the other asset sets what I would say is we are in a great position to take advantage of the marketplace when and if content starts to sort itself out from an over-the-top perspective.
So that’s probably all we would say at this point in time on that one Kevin.
Okay David we have time for one more question.
Your last question comes from Joseph Mastrogiovanni of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Fran if I could just follow-on to the last question how should we think about – how you are thinking about splitting your budget between the AWS and the broadcast auctions? Well I think it’s too early to tell.
I guess what we are focused on or at least what I am focused on right now is the AWS auction which we know will happen at the end of this year with attainment being sometime in the first quarter.
So that’s top priority and then we’ll deal with the broadcast licenses after that within 2015.
So right now the priority is AWS.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Okay that ends our questions.
So I’d like to turn it over to Fran for some closing remarks.
So thanks Mike.
So look everyone thank you for joining us this morning.
And I think I would just recap that said the first quarter for us was a great start to the year.
We consistently invest and focus on the profitable growth to drive strong financial performance and revenue earnings and cash flow we are focused on customer satisfaction.
Our proven ability to scale this business and drive operational efficiencies in order for us to deliver more value to our customers and compete effectively in all areas of our business.
We continue to focus on our strategy to deliver the highest quality overall customer experience.
We listen to our customers monitor the competitive environment and respond where necessary in a rational manner.
We are very confident in our ability to execute and improve on our business fundamentals driving consistent customer value while delivering growth in customers revenues earnings and cash flow.
We are very excited about the future of this industry.
We are excited about our investment the innovation curve that we are delivering.
The customer satisfaction that we have and the delivery of value to our shareholders and to our employees our more valuable assets.
So thank you for joining our call this morning and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Verizon Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be opened for questions following the presentation.
(Operator instructions) Today’s conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Michael Stefanski Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Thanks David.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter earnings conference call.
This is Mike Stefanski and I’m here with our Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo.
We appreciate you joining us earlier than our usual time this morning.
Before we get started let me remind you that our earnings release financial and operating information the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website.
Replays and a transcript of this call will be made available on our website.
I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement.
Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties.
Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon filings with the SEC which are also available on our website.
This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also available on our website.
The quarterly growth rates disclosed in this presentation are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.
Before Fran takes you through the details of our quarterly performance I would like to cover a special item that is included in our reported results on Slide 3.
For the second quarter of 2014 we reported earnings of $1.01 per share on a GAAP basis.
These reported results include a pre-tax gain of $707 million related to the sale of 700 megahertz A block spectrum licenses.
On the after tax basis this gain increased reported net income by $434 million or $0.10 per share.
As we’ve done in the past we’ve accounted for the gain on the sale of these licenses at the corporate level so it is not part of our Wireless segment results.
Excluding the effect of this non-operational item adjusted earnings per share was $0.91 for the second quarter compared with $0.73 a year ago or growth of 24.7%.
On a year-to-date basis adjusted earnings per share were $1.76 compared with $1.41 last year up 24.8%.
Keep in mind that the $1.76 per share first half result does not reflect full ownership of Verizon Wireless for the entire first quarter since the transaction closed on February 21st.
As discussed on our first quarter call full ownership for the quarter represents as an additional $0.07 per share of earnings.
With that I will now turn the call over to Fran.
Thanks Mike.
Good morning everyone.
We entered 2014 with the great confidence in our ability to grow the business profitably while making the necessary capital investments to position us for the future.
In the first quarter we closed the Vodafone transaction and delivered strong financial results.
On our last earnings call I indicated that we exited the first quarter with better momentum and expected that to carry forward.
As you can see from our second quarter results we delivered on what we said producing very strong customer growth metrics and Wireless and FiOS in driving excellent top line growth and profitability.
We are competing effectively in all markets and executing our strategy which is focused on providing network reliability and a great customer experience.
Over the past two and a half years we have delivered consistent high quality earnings results with double-digit year-over-year growth and reported and adjusted earnings per share in nine of the last 10 quarters.
Our adjusted earnings per share of $0.91 represented another quarter of more than 20% growth.
This sustained earnings growth demonstrates our ability to execute effectively in all parts of the business in a highly competitive environment.
Our consolidated revenue performance was strong with growth accelerating to 5.7% our highest growth rate in the past six quarters.
In Wireless we had a great quarter of both growth and profitability.
4G device activations were exceptionally strong resulting in $2.3 million 4G postpaid net adds.
Total postpaid net additions top $1.4 million total operating revenue grew 7.5% with service revenue growth of 5.9% and our EBITDA service margin was 50.3%.
In Wireline we also had a good quarter with improved growth and margin expansion.
Quarterly operating revenue grew 0.3% which is a milestone led by consumer growth of 5.3% as we continue to drive FiOS penetration and customer adoption of our quantum broadbrand and video products.
Wireline EBITDA increased 4.9% and the EBITDA margin improved to 23.2% up 90 basis points sequentially and 100 basis points year-over-year.
Our cash generation continues to be very strong enabling us to consistently invest in our networks for future growth and innovation.
Free cash flow was $3.3 billion in the quarter and totaled $6.3 billion for the first half.
Now let’s get into our second quarter performance in more detail starting with consolidated results on Slide 5.
Total operating revenue grew 5.7% in the quarter continuing our consistent and improving top line growth trend.
Revenue increases were once again driven by Wireless and FiOS.
As we indicated last quarter new revenue streams from machine-to-machine and Telematics while still relatively small are beginning to emerge and make positive contributions with revenue growth of more than 50% in the quarter.
Our continued focus on driving process improvements and cost-efficiencies is also paying off.
In the second quarter adjusted operating income increased 10.4%.
To my earlier point about consistent earnings growth we have also delivered double-digit growth and adjusted operating income in nine of the 10 quarters.
On an adjusted basis consolidated EBITDA grew 6.4% to $11.1 billion.
And our EBITDA margin was up 30 basis points to 35.4%.
Let’s take a look at our cash flow results on Slide 6.
As we previously discussed it is important to know the lack of comparative ability between the current and prior periods in our statement of cash flows as result of the transaction to require a full ownership of Verizon Wireless.
In 2014 the cash flows from operations line will include higher cash payments for interests and taxes.
The cash flows from financing section will have lower cash distributions to Vodafone and higher overall dividend payments to our shareholders due to the increase and shares outstanding.
In the first half of 2014 cash flows from operations worth $14.8 billion which included an incremental $1.2 billion of cash interest payments $1.5 billion in cash taxes and $800 million of pension funding that we did not have in the first half of 2013.
In spite of this additional uses of cash and higher capital spending free cash flow totaled $6.3 billion year-to-date.
Again the key point on cash flows is a simple one.
The amount of cash available task will be significantly greater this year than some of the former partnership structure 45% of any excess cash at Wireless would at some point be distributed to Vodafone.
So even after a higher interest payment and greater cash taxes we will have more cash available at the corporate level than prior to the transaction.
I would also point out that we received $2.4 billion in cash flow in the quarter from the transaction to sell wireless licenses to T-Mobile.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $4.3 billion and we’re $8.5 billion year-to-date up about $900 million or 11.5%.
Wireless capital spending in the second quarter was $2.5 billion.
And through the first half totaled $5.3 billion well ahead of what we spent through the first half of last year.
We are investing to proactively stay ahead of demand.
As we’ve said our capital investments are focused on adding capacity to optimize our 4G LTE network primarily by increasing network density and the point spectrum.
We are actively deploying AWS spectrum across our nationwide footprint and currently have more than 350 markets with AWSF or XLTE as we are branding it.
The continued deployment of AWS and the addition of small sales distributed in terms of systems and the in building solutions will fortify our network advantage.
In Wireline capital expenditures totaled $1.3 billion in the quarter and $2.7 billion year-to-date which we’re down $219 million or 7.4%.
Our balance sheet remained strong and we continue to have the financial flexibility to grow the business.
Gross stat of just under $110 billion was essentially unchanged from the last quarter.
Our Net Debt position improved to about $104 billion and the Net Debt to adjusted EBITDA Ratio at the end of the quarter was 2.4 times.
Now let’s move into review with the segments starting with Wireless on Slide 7.
Our consistent investment in Wireless is the foundation of our success and drives our leadership in network quality reliability and the overall customer experience.
Our capital investment strategy is focused on adding capacity to the network to meet increasing 4G device adoption which will drive higher customer usage.
As I highlighted earlier we have an exceptional quarter of 4G Smartphone and tablet activations with increase in gross addition and upgrades.
We also did an excellent job in terms of customer retention.
The increase in device volume was driven by a combination of factors starting with the compelling value proposition of our new MORE Everything plans on our high quality 4G LTE network.
As you know we refresh our pricing in framework and value proposition in the first quarter.
Within this plans we are providing customers a choice between the traditional two years service contracts with subsidize devices of Verizon Edge where customers make monthly installment payments with their devices that receive discounted monthly service pricing.
We are also driving 4G device adoption with attractive tablet offers.
Our sales strategy in the second quarter dramatically improved customer growth which created strong minimum for us as we entered the second half of the year.
Total Wireless revenues grew to $21.5 billion up 7.5%.
Our service revenues grew 5.9% to $18.1 billion.
This was the first full quarter of discounted service pricing for customers on Verizon Edge.
A portion of the sequential decline in the rate of growth was due to the tradeoff between the lower service revenue and higher monthly equipment billings.
The percentage of phone activations by customers choosing Edge increased to about 18% in the quarter up from about 13% in the first quarter.
In terms of profitability we generated $9.1 billion of EBITDA in the quarter an increase of 6.8%.
As I highlighted earlier our service EBITDA margin was 50.3% 50 basis point higher than a year ago.
The estimated benefit to EBITDA in the quarter from Edge was not significantly different than in the first quarter due to the cumulative impact of service price discounts in the program.
Let’s now turn to a more detailed look at Wireless revenue per account beginning on Slide 8.
Our service revenue growth was once again driven by 4G smartphone and tablet adoption as well as increased data usage.
Retailed postpaid revenue per account or ARPA moved 4.7% which was down from 6.3% in the first quarter.
Again more than half of the decline in the rate of growth resulted from this being the first full quarter of discounted monthly service pricing from Edge.
Since ARPA is calculated using service revenue it does not capture the monthly equipment billings from customers on the Edge program.
In the second quarter monthly equipment billings totaled about $180 million which was significantly higher than the first quarter.
We continued to see good additional device adoption within our customer accounts.
We ended the second quarter with an average of 2.8 retail connections per account an increase of 3.7%.
About 55% of our 35.2 million postpaid accounts have subscribed to MORE Everything shared data plans.
Increased usage per device and per account continues to drive step ups to higher data tiers.
Let’s take a closer look at connections growth on Slide 9.
We ended the quarter with $104.6 million total retail connections.
Our industry leading postpaid connection space reached $98.6 million and prepaid totaled just over $6 million.
Postpaid gross additions in the quarter were significantly higher both sequentially and year-over-year.
Our 4.2 million postpaid gross add were 18.1% higher than a year ago in terms of the gross add mix more than half for smartphones at about 40% more internet devices primarily tablets.
Our retail postpaid term rate of that 9.4% was much improved from the first quarter and only one basis point higher than the second quarter of last year.
As we previously said postpaid net additions were very strong and totaled 1.441 million up 900 000 sequentially at about 500 000 from last year.
As I highlighted earlier our postpaid net additions included 2.3 million new 4G devices.
Within that total more than 1 million were 4G smartphones and 1.2 million were 4G tablets.
Postpaid phone net adds totaled a positive 304 000 as the 1 million new 4G smartphones were partially offset by net declines in basic and 3G smartphones.
For the third straight quarter we had company record setting tablet net adds.
While 4G smartphones provide the highest value tablets provide a very good incremental value through increased data consumption and lower churn at the account level.
Tablets also have a lower cost subsidy than smartphones.
We see tablet as the highly profitable growth opportunity with significant headroom in terms of further penetration.
Our postpaid tablet base is only 5.4 million.
So we have a great opportunity with these devices to generate growth in 2014 and beyond.
Turning now to customer upgrades.
Our postpaid upgrade rate increased sequentially to 7.1% for the quarter.
Once again these were high quality upgrades.
About 90% of all upgrades in the quarter were smartphones.
Consistent with our plan to drive 4G smartphone penetration about 1.4 million or 23% of our smartphone upgrades were from basic phones.
About half of the remaining smartphone upgrades were 3G to 4G which we monetized through higher data usage and lower cost to serve.
Next let’s turn to Slide 10 and take a look at device activations and our continued progress in terms of 4G adoption and usage.
Postpaid device activations which we include both gross adds and upgrades increased both sequentially and year-over-year.
Second quarter activations totaled 11.1 million up 10.2%.
Smartphone activations totaled 8.3 million 92% of which were 4G.
Our smartphone penetration increased to nearly 75% of our total phones.
We ended the quarter with 63.5 million smartphones and about 69% of those were 4G.
So we still have about 20 million 3G smartphones and almost 22 million basic phones in our base which provides us with a good upgrade opportunity.
Our overall 4G device penetration continues to steadily increase.
At the end of the second quarter nearly 55% of our retail postpaid connections were 4G up from 33% a year ago.
Data and video usage on our network continues to rise.
Currently about 76% of total data traffic is carried on the 4G LTE network.
We carry more traffic on our Wireless network than any of our competitors.
This network advantage continues to be acknowledged by national surveys from widely recognized third party organizations.
More importantly our own stringent drive testing shows that we are continuing to improve our network performance.
Let’s move next to our Wireline segment starting with the review of our consumer and mass markets revenue performance on Slide 11.
In the Consumer business we continue to see positive revenue trends driven by FiOS.
In the second quarter Consumer revenue growth was 5.3% making it eight consecutive quarters of growth in excess of 4%.
Mass markets which includes small business grew 4.2%.
FiOS now represents 75% of consumer revenue and we are sustaining strong double-digit revenue growth.
In the second quarter FiOS consumer revenue grew 13.4% driven by customer additions pricing actions and Quantum penetration.
We continue to see strong adoption of Quantum as 55% of our FiOS Internet customers subscribe to the higher speeds ranging from 50 to 500 megabits per second.
We continue to enrich the customer value proposition and drive investment returns by creating new and innovative services on our FiOS platform.
We recently introduced FiOS Quantum TV with enhanced features and functionality in terms of storage recording capabilities and control of content.
While still in the early stages we are pleased with the initial adoption of this differentiated TV viewing experience by existing and new customers.
In our FiOS markets we continue to focus on adding quality customers and generating profitable growth in a very competitive market environment.
In Broadband we added 139 000 new FiOS Internet customers in the second quarter and now have 6.3 million subscribers representing 40% penetration.
Overall net broadband subscribers in the quarter were a positive 46 000.
In FiOS video we added 100 000 new subscribers in the quarter.
So we now have 5.4 million subscribers representing 35% penetration.
During the quarter we also converted about 70 000 customers from copper to fiber.
This network initiative continues to be important as we systematically upgrade our network and provide higher quality of service.
Aside from maintenance savings and improvements in customer satisfaction conversions to fiber also provide a long-term opportunity for customers to purchase FiOS services which result in additional recurring revenue.
Let’s turn to Slide 12 and review our overall Wireline segment revenue and profitability.
In the Enterprise space we continue to work through secular and economic challenges.
In the second quarter Global Enterprise revenue declined $70 million or 1.9%.
Revenue declined in Legacy Transport Services and CPE continue to outweigh growth in newer and more strategic applications which are smaller in scale.
Strategic Services which include Private IP Ethernet Datacenter Cloud Security and Managed Services grew 3%.
In our Global Wholesale business quarterly revenues declined $92 million or 5.5%.
While we continue to see healthy demand for Ethernet services positive growth continues to be more than offset by price compression technology migration and other secular challenges.
As I highlighted earlier total Wireline growth turned positive this quarter.
Looking ahead we expect to continue to see some fluctuation in year-over-year growth rates.
We are making progress but are not satisfied we have much more to do here.
We are focused on continuous improvements particularly in driving operating efficiencies.
Wireline EBITDA increased 4.9% and the EBITDA margin expanded 100 basis points in the quarter to 23.2%.
We continue to target increased Wireline EBITDA and margin expansion in 2014.
As Lowell and I have both stated we continually look for opportunities to streamline the business and monetize non-strategic assets.
To that end on July 1st we closed the transaction for the sale of the unit within our public sector business with revenues of about $600 million in 2013.
A majority of which was equipment.
Let’s move next to our summary slide.
As always the foundation of our success is the steady and consistent investment in networks and platforms.
These networks and platforms form the building blocks for the innovative products and services that will fuel our growth and improve the customer experience.
Our Wireless and Wireline networks continue to be the hallmark of our brand and provide the fundamental strength upon which we build our competitive advantage.
We had a strong first half of 2014 with consolidated revenue growth of 5.2% and 36% adjusted EBITDA margin representing 90 basis points of margin expansion.
We continue to deliver high-quality double-digit earnings growth and we have a much stronger cash position with the full access to Wireless cash flows.
We have great confidence heading into the second half of the year and we remain on track to achieve our revenue growth margin expansion and capital spending targets for the year.
We have strong momentum in Wireless and expect to build on that strength driving further penetration of 4G smartphones and tablets while extending our network leadership position in 4G LTE.
In FiOS we expect to drive higher penetration in existing markets and continue to differentiate ourselves with the superior Quantum broadband and video products.
In the Enterprise space we will continue to aggressively market key platforms demonstrating that we have a unique set of capabilities to provide for customer solutions.
As always we will remain extremely focused on profitable revenue growth and will continue to drive network and cost structure improvements utilizing our Verizon Lean Six-Sigma principles.
With that I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.
Thank you Fran.
David we’re now ready for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Phil Cusick of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys thanks.
So one in Wireless and one the Wireline if I may.
Wireless postpaid account growth reaccelerated on 2Q what do you think drove that rebound on account growth? And you said you have some strong momentum.
Can we expect to continue through the rest of the year? And then on Wireline revenue was positive for the first time in years and margins improved more than we expected.
What should we look forward there going forward for both revenue and margins? Thanks.
Hi.
Thanks Phil good morning.
On the account growth look I think it was a number of things.
I think the key to us right now is I would center around customer choice.
We are giving our customers the choice to select what best fits them whether it’s the EDGE program or it’s the legacy adoption of a subsidy model.
And as you can see from a service revenue growth performance we are really centered around driving the attachment rate of devices generating more data on the individual network.
So we’re attracting customers to our network based on its performance.
You can tell from that a customer choice perspective many of our customers selected to stay with the legacy subsidy model as I as I said on my prepared remarks our take rate was only 18% for the quarter.
I know I said in the first quarter I expected that to accelerate to 30% with the introduction of indirect channels and the competitive environment.
But during the holiday season we really stuck with our game of giving customers the choice of that Edge program but we ran a lot of promotions around handsets related to Mother’s Day and Father’s Day.
And I think that drove significant traffic to our stores.
So from here you should expect the same thing going into the third quarter that we will continue to address that marketplace.
As far as our base goes we saw great progress in our base by really reducing the churn.
And as I said before we were going to systematically address our base and take care of the customers who are coming out of contract and we felt that would churn to go somewhere else we proactively went after those customers and made sure that they were satisfied with their pricing model and with their experience.
And I think that proved to be the right model for us.
I think we also addressed our basic to smartphone customer base by having a very good quarter this quarter of 1.4 million phones from basic phones up into the 4G smartphone category and also 3G to 4G smartphones.
So when you consolidate all of this with the excellent tablet growth quarter we had – and again I think tablets are extremely good for the industry not just for Verizon.
And from an industry perspective I think everybody will see the same thing that says these tablets are lower subsidy they reduce churn in the account level.
So we see that when someone has a tablet in the account their churn is lower than the overall churn of a normal customer base.
This device drives incremental revenue from an access standpoint.
But more importantly I think and I’ll give you a data point here these 4G tablets drive more usage on the network than a 3G smartphone.
So when you consolidate that into an account level pricing arrangement customers buy up because they’re using more data.
So this is all good.
And then of course as we mentioned in the beginning from a service revenue perspective and account growth machine-to-machine is becoming at a more important role there.
So I’ll stop there I’m sure we’ll have more questions around Wireless.
From a Wireline perspective I guess I would put it this way.
FiOS continues to be the driver of the Wireline revenue growth continue to center around our pricing actions on the FiOS platform continue to innovate and move people into our Quantum Broadband which provides an incremental increase to us.
We launched our – Michael Rollins from Citi Investment Research.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks good morning.
Fran if I could just ask a couple of questions.
First on the Wireless side with respect to phone ad should that a follow some of the historical I guess you call it seasonality that you’ve seen in the past where I think last year you talked about increasing ad performance as you moved through each quarter? And on the strategic side could you talk about maybe what else Verizon could consider from an asset optimization perspective and maybe just an update on how things like VDMS and connected car are doing? Thanks.
Okay.
Thanks Michael.
So on the phone and net adds obviously again as I said we came out strong during the marketing periods of Mother’s Day and Father’s Day and normally the second quarter is only better than the first quarter.
I think that through this year of obviously for the back half of this year we’re going to have several dynamic devices come to market that will certainly fuel for the industry a lot of opportunity for growth here.
So I think from our perspective we’ll stay to our game plan.
I’m not going to predict at this point what net adds will be from our phone net add for the third quarter that has a lot around that the competitive environment and customer base but I would anticipate that you’ll see strong performance from Verizon Wireless.
As far as our other strategic areas so Verizon Digital Media Services launched their commercial service this year.
We have a number of customers who are under contract and we’re actually starting to generate revenue all from that platform.
It’s early stages here.
There’s a lot of opportunity within that platform and we will continue to move on that strategy.
As far as Telematics goes this goes into our machine-to-machine category.
And as I said in my prepared remarks here I will tell you this was one of the highest connection quarters we had from a machine-to-machine on a companywide basis which would include Verizon Wireless Hughes Telematics and some of our enterprise customers.
And that fueled that 50% year-over-year growth.
So machine-to-machine continues to be a critical component.
I would also tell you if you have a chance to visit one of our destination stores with Verizon Wireless you immediately walk in a store and you can visually see all of the technology around gaming and music and fitness that can be connected to our network.
And these things are being sold quite substantially on a quarterly basis through our Verizon Wireless distribution stores.
So again this is a very important category I think not only for us but for the industry.
And as we’ve continually said we believe that machine-to-machine will be a future growth engine for us for years to come and that is consistent with our strategy.
Thank you.
Okay.
David next question please.
Your next question comes from Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks very much good morning.
Fran you talked about the strong cash flow in the quarter.
It looks like there’s an opportunity potentially for bonus depreciation to be extended again.
You had $6 billion of cash on a balance sheet here.
It looks like you’re doing some refis on your balance sheet.
Can you just talk about your overall financial strategy? It looked an opportunity here to delever a little bit more to refi but there’s also spectrum auctions coming in.
And how that all place into dividend and policy given the 20% plus EPS growth? Is there an opportunity here despite the leverage to maybe see faster dividend growth? Thanks.
Thanks Simon.
So in a cash flow yes.
I mean obviously we have a significant strong cash flow here.
And obviously we said that at the onset of acquiring Verizon Wireless that we will get 100% ownership of those cash flows.
As I said at the beginning of this year look the strategy right now for us is to build cash on the balance sheet to prepare for the AWS-3 auction that’s coming in November and that’s the strategic initiative we had moving into this year.
So we have gross debt at about the same level.
Now that’s been came down from a high of $114 billion when we closed the Vodafone transaction that’s at $110 billion.
But you see us accumulating that cash on the balance sheet to prepare for the auction.
As far as the overall refinancing of long-term debt here you’ve seen us to be very proactive in a marketplace taking the opportunity of the low interest rate market repositioning the debt that we borrowed at the close and repositioning our towers.
So we’re strategically trying to push up the long-term debt longer at a more fixed lower rate than we had.
And we will continue to work those towers into the future.
I really won’t talk about our future plans at this point.
It would be inappropriate to do that.
As far as bonus depreciation goes look I’m optimistic but I’m not because here we sit in July there’s not much activity moving around us.
There’s many things that the government has to deal with including the highway build that’s pertinent to us because of pensions moving that’s included in that bill.
There’s also the Internet Freedom Act that has to get passed or else consumers are going to be detrimented here at the end of this year.
And then of course we have the overall tax reform in bonus depreciation.
So look I think we’ll have to wait to see but as the year runs out bonus depreciation becomes less and less impactful.
So we’re hopeful that the government will do the right thing here to stimulate the economy and investment around this but it’s hard for me to predict that.
So at this point we’re not counting on any decrease in our federal tax payments because of bonus depreciation.
And as I said at the beginning of the year this was about $1 billion of incremental tax impact to us by not having that Bonus Depreciation.
As far as dividend policy goes look I think we’ve both Lowell and I have reiterate that we understand the dividend policy is important.
Our Board of Directors understand the dividend policy is important but it is a Board of Director decision so I can’t sit here today and tell you what that policy will be.
But we do understand it’s important and I think we’ve reflected our board has been very aggressive in our dividend policy over the last seven years and so I think that should set the stage for the future.
David we’re ready for the next question.
Your next question comes from David Barden of Bank of America.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
I guess two if I could.
Just first Fran obviously there’s a lot of focus on wireless service margin this quarter from the comment of last quarter that there was next vacation that we’re going to get a huge increase in the installment payment plan take rate.
There was an equivalent expectation that we’re going to get a lot of upfront revenue recognition and that would have helped the margins a lot.
But that obviously didn’t really take place.
At 18% take rate that probably gave you a couple of hundred million relative to street expectations.
You said that the installment payment plan impact was about the same at this quarter as last quarter but it was net of the service price discounts.
Could you parse that out between the impact that you took from a cash perspective of giving lower prices versus the revenue benefit non-cash that you got from the upfront accounting related issues that going to the installment payment plan? And I guess the second question would be more of a strategic one.
I know you guys have been working on video and pushing video through the wireless network from a TV anywhere perspective buying content partnering people through the last couple of years.
Could you talked a little bit about what the talk now of consolidation of the content environment how your strategy is unfolding how you’re working to try to bring video content into the wireless environment so you can monetize it over to 4G network? Thanks.
Good.
Thanks David.
So as long – look on the service margin I think here’s the way I would answer this is that we produced a 50.3% margin on extremely high volume growth under a subsidy model and I think that’s the key for this quarter.
So we really didn’t get much benefit from the Edge program because the take rate was only 18%.
We said that the billings around Edge were $180 million so you can do the backwards math there.
But if you look at the actual EBITDA impact of Edge I said was similar to the first quarter.
As far as the pricing refresh that we did in the first quarter to respond to the competitive environment again there is some impact there from dilution on customers that are moving and that we are as I said addressing from a churn perspective.
But this is all good for us because we maintain those customers on an appropriate plan.
They stay with Verizon Wireless.
They’re adding tablets.
They’re increasing their ARPU again.
So the way I would venture to say on this one without getting to too much math on service revenue pricing and so forth if you take the $180 million and add that to the ARPA I think you’d come out with a number that’s significantly higher than the 4.7% from a recurring revenue standpoint if you will.
So I think from a 50.3% quarter based on the growth that we had on a subsidy model I think it’s just an outstanding quarter for us from an overall profitability on Verizon Wireless.
So I’ll stand on that one and leave it at that.
As far as content goes look I think we’ve demonstrated through our NFL agreement some of our IndyCar agreement and some other agreements that we have around some sporting networks that we will continue to search for those opportunities that make content available to our wireless customers without a linear TV or satellite TV subscription.
And I think that’s important for the wireless user as we see more and more of the younger generation are cutting the quarter in their home and want their content either via or the internet or wireless that’s the strategy that we hold.
If you’re asking me do we need to own the content? We continue to position ourselves but we believe we do not need to own content to be successful in this ecosystem but we just need to get the rights for that content.
We understand that content providers want to be paid for those rights and as long as that’s a worker commercial model for us then we will continue on that strategy.
I’d also highlight that one of the big things here that’s coming to market is of course Multicast which will really enhance the experience for our customers around watching video and also extremely efficient for the wireless industry to provide that video through their network without consuming a lot of spectrum and a lot of capacity.
So we will start to embed chips in our handsets here the back half for this year.
The network will be ready by the end of the third quarter to actually launch Multicast.
We won’t go commercial with that until ‘15 but the network will be ready and it’s a matter of getting the handsets in customers’ hands and then obviously getting the content which we demonstrated with the Super Bowl this past January.
For those types of the events that we think will be very very really consumed by the consumer on real time live type events.
So more to come around the whole video strategy of Wireless but I think the breakthrough point here will be once Multicast technology is up and running and launched.
Okay David we’ll take the next question now.
Your next question comes from John Hodulik of UBS.
Please go ahead with your question.
Great thanks guys.
Fran can you give us a sense of what percentage of your postpaid base takes a 10 gigabyte or larger bucket and maybe how that’s changed over time? Just trying to get a sense of the up strategy some more tablets into the base.
And then on the Wireline side that’s more of the follow up.
You saw a 100 basis points year-over-year improvement in margins but you didn’t talk about somewhat that one time that drove the revenue did that also affect the margins or is this 100 basis point improvement sort of a good run rate for what you can expect for the second half of the year? Thanks.
Thanks John.
So first on the 10 gigabit plan we don’t disclose where our customers sit within the bands.
But what I will tell you is it that we have quarter-to-quarter over the last three quarters seen an increased in the amount of customers taking the 10 gigabit plan and pricing up.
So we watched on a quarterly basis the number of customers that buy down in data bundles and buy up in data bundles and that over the last several quarters we’ve had a significant net positive in buying up in data bundles.
So from that perspective the takeaway will be is that we continue to see an increase in customers buying up in their data bundles and that includes the 10 gigabit plan.
As far as the Wireline margin look we’ve said from the beginning of this year Lowell and I were very opportunistic on increasing the Wireline margin.
Now some of this is seasonality.
Second quarter is always good.
Third quarter tends to have some seasonality into it.
But look overall I think you should see that we are moving the Wireline business in the right direction from a profitability standpoint.
And there are a lot of things that we still need to work on obviously.
As I’ve said FiOS is the big driver on the top line copper migration continues to be an important strategic initiative for us.
But I don’t want to down plate the fact that our VLSS we’ve been at this for two years and we’re now starting to see the benefits of a lot of these projects around efficiencies and cost cutting starting to come through.
So again that is part of this you should see us improve our productivity especially around the new Quantum TV where we can put a media server into the home and start to get some real efficiencies in the install process and we think that will happen entering in 2015.
So again I think that’s part of it.
The other thing too is this that we can’t lose side of the fact that we continue to look at this portfolio and as I’ve said in my prepared remarks we did divest of a branch of our public sector business which was about $600 million of revenue that last year.
You will see the impact of that going into the third quarter.
So we will lose that revenue in third quarter so that’s going to show up in our public sector business.
But from an overall margin standpoint that’s going to help the profitability of this company.
And this is again looking at non-strategic businesses that are what I would say is not our niche in the business and we need to divest to them.
And Lowell and I continue to look at things that we can divest of that are best for overall shareholder value.
And we will continue with that.
Great thanks Fran.
David next question please.
Your next question comes from Mike McCormack of Jefferies.
Please go ahead with your question.
Mike are you on mute? Can you hear me? Yes now I can.
Go ahead.
Sorry about that.
Yes Fran just thinking about the net add numbers the 2.3 million 4G LTE postpaid versus the 1.4 overall.
Can you just sort of map us through that what you’re saying as far basic and features phone sub losses or migration? You talked about migrations but you’re saying is more pressure standpoint from the competitors.
And then secondly on FiOS and these targeted MDUs more recently what you’re saying with their expected changing video behaviors among that youth demographic maybe just a comment on what kind of returns you guys get on a broadband only sub? Thanks.
Okay let me start with the MDU side.
So from an MDU perspective look these continues to be one of our strong penetration gains.
And as I’ve said before New York City is still our lowest penetrated market but it is our highest year-over-year gain.
And a lot of this has to do with MDUs.
But this is a – it’s a challenging business because the average tenant of an MDU in New York I think the last time I looked was eight months.
So these units change and of course the strategy part of the strategy is to accumulate the new residence coming in to continue to use the FiOS demand.
But obviously within this younger generation a year ago we tested the ability to have them select whether they wanted large TV bundles and lower Internet speeds or high Internet speeds and lower TV bundles.
And what we saw is the majority of this said does this segment selected the highest speed that they could get and didn’t really care about how many TV stations they got because most of them are consuming their video via Internet.
Again this is just another position for us of why we’ve gone the symmetry within our broadband offers.
We just launched that this week so you will see that heading the consumer market which symmetry on all of our broadband offers.
We launched it six months ago in our small business segment so this is again another strategy which we think is important for that generation who really wants the highest speed that they can get and they want the symmetry in that speed.
So that will continue to be an overall concentration for us.
As far as the handsets and all look I think that you can probably do the backwards map here and we said that we added 2.3 million 4G LTE phones overall.
We’ve said that we had million 4G smartphones net adds for the quarter.
So with the 304 000 net number the majority of those losses were basic phones and then the rest were made with 3G.
So again you can see that the basic phone category or I would consider this to lower end phone category continues to be the category that we lose but I will say that we made substantial improvement from what we saw on the first quarter with all the pricing actions the retention tools that we put in place and some of the new pricing tools that we put in place.
Overall I think we significantly improved and that came through on the operating results of Verizon Wireless.
Hey Fran just a quicky on the EIP could you just give us a sense for how that paced through the quarter? Was it accelerating throughout? And then what should we think about for the full year on the EIP uptake? What’s your expectation? I think I would put it this way.
What I saw was in our store channel it was pretty much relatively flat.
The increase came through the indirect channel when we launched that.
Right now I would say that I think one important piece of information here as well is that on the front line our sales representatives make the same compensation whether they sell on Edge plan or a legacy subsidy model.
There was no difference in their compensations.
So again this comes down to the important ingredient that this is truly a customer choice.
The rep shows them both models and the customer chooses.
So as far as going forward look I think that we are on pace to be somewhere between this 18% to 20% but again when you think about all of the new phones that are coming in the back half of the year through the indirect channel this could escalate a bit on us.
The competitive environment has a lot to do with this.
But right now under current course and current environment I think that the 18% to 20% is really where we sit.
Great thanks Fran.
David next question please.
The next question comes from Kevin Smithen on Macquarie.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks.
With Edge adoption at just 18% the fall in year-over-year seems to imply a repricing of non-Edge base.
I think you said you had some churn mitigation promotions in the quarter.
Can you talk a little bit about that and also where do you expect year-over-year ARPA stabilize? Yes.
So I think Kevin as I’ve said at the beginning I think you have to do a little of backwards math here because the Edge plan if you take that 180 million billing number that I gave you and you look at ARPA I think what you’ll see is if you calculate back in the returning monthly and equipment revenue which in essence would have been service revenue I think your percentage increase would be relatively flat with the first quarter and some past quarters.
So again I think that the service revenue impact and the ARPA impact is really Edge-related.
Now there is some of course service pricing discounts in there and we are moving as we said proactively some of our customers who are out of contract and we think that they have a high propensity to churn.
We are proactively moving them to the Edge pricing.
But we’re doing this very very systematically.
And so there will be a little bit of pressure there but I think if you do that backwards math that I gave you I think you’ll get to the true numbers of what the ARPA growth would have been with this recurring equipment revenue in it.
And how should we think about the AWS refinancing? Will this be an additional capital raise or funded out of cash on-hand and how should we think about your sort of leverage targets with the spectrum auction? And it sounds like you want to be very aggressive with that.
Well I think the way you want to think about this is it is an auction.
So I’m not going to talk about how we think we’re going to pay for that auction because I’m not going to give anybody information of how much I’m willing to spend for the auction.
So I think we’ll just wait there.
As I said the strategy is to build cash prepare for the auction and we’ll execute accordingly.
So more to come on that in the latter back of the year.
Thanks.
David next question please.
Your next question comes from Jonathan Schildkraut of Evercore.
Please go ahead with your question.
Oh great thanks.
Two if I may.
First just in terms of the outlook on the top line for the remainder of the year and you guys have had a very strong first half of the year up almost 6% revenue growth year-over-year in the second quarter.
And the outlook for the year is only about 4%.
I’m wondering if that is just conservative stance at this point in the year or if there’s something that we should look out for in particular as we examine our back half for the year projections.
And then yet another question around EIP.
I’m just wondering if we could get a census to where the receivable currently stood or maybe the change in receivable over quarter-over-quarter.
Thanks.
Sure.
Thanks Jonathan.
So on the 4% look being the CFO we generally are conservative.
So I’ll stick to the guidance that we gave at the beginning of the year which was top line growth of 4% plus so I’ll stick to that.
As far as the balance sheet goes if you look at our balance sheet the change in the AR is directly related to the Edge program so you can look at that change and pretty much come to your answer.
Thank you for taking the questions.
Okay last question? Your last question today will come from Jennifer Fritzsche from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead with your question.
Great thank you for taking the question.
Fran you have mentioned a lot about the AWS-3 auction.
I know there’s a lot of complications and a lot of blurriness around it.
But I’ve not heard you talk openly about the broadcast or incentive auction.
Your closest peer obviously made a big monetary number put a monetary number with that.
And I just was wondering your current thought as you stand here today.
Yes.
So thanks Jennifer.
So look – I mean we are focused on AWS-3 auction and the reason we’re focused on that is it will start November 13th deposits will be required.
We actually know exactly what the rules are.
The procedures for that auction will be announced sometime in the next coming weeks.
So that’s really the focal point for us.
As far as the broadcast spectrum goes look currently there are no final adoptive rules on this.
So it’s hard for us to sit here and make a comment on something that has not been finalized.
So I think that would be premature for us.
I know what others have done but look we are focused on AWS.
We’ll get through that.
We’ll see what the broadcast spectrum final rules are and then you’ll hear more from us when that happens.
But at this point I’m not going to make anymore comments around the broadcast.
That’s all time we have for questions for today.
But before we end the call I’d like to turn it back over to Fran.
Thanks Mike.
Just a couple of quick closing comments.
So look we had an extremely strong first half of 2014 in terms of our buy-in growth and financial performance.
Importantly we closed the Vodafone transaction and now have sole ownership of the Wireless asset.
To the first half of this year we have exceeded our revenue growth targets and delivered strong earnings growth.
We have great momentum heading into the second half and we are competing well in all of our key strategic areas.
Our cash generation is very strong and we have great confidence in our ability to execute on our strategy and grow this business profitably while making the necessary capital investments to position us for the future.
We are excited about our growth opportunities and we will continue to invest innovate and deliver for our customers our shareholders and our employees.
Thank you so much for joining us today and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Verizon Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be opened for questions following the presentation.
(Operator instructions) Today’s conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Michael Stefanski Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Thanks David.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter earnings conference call.
This is Mike Stefanski and I’m here with Fran Shammo our Chief Financial Officer.
As a reminder our earnings release financial and operating information the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website.
Replays and a transcript of this call will also be made available on our website.
Before we get started I would like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement on slide 2.
Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties.
Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon’s filings with the SEC which are available on our website.
This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in the financial materials we’ve posted to our website.
The quarterly growth rates disclosed in this presentation are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.
In terms of our financial results I’ll point out that there were no special items included in our reported earnings for the third quarter of 2014.
Earnings per share of $0.89 compares with adjusted earnings of $0.77 per share in the third quarter of last year an increase of 15.6%.
On a year-to-date basis adjusted earnings per share of $2.65 were up 21.6%.
Keep in mind that the $2.65 per share a year-to-date result in 2014 does not reflect full ownership of Verizon Wireless from the beginning of the year since the transaction close on February 21.
As previously noted full ownership from January 01 to the date of closing would have represented an additional $0.07 of earnings per share in the first quarter.
For purposes of comparability in the Wireline segment the historical results of the business within the public sector that we sold on July 01 have been reclassified for all periods prior to the sale.
These results which previously were part of global enterprise have been moved to corporate and other consistent with how we’ve dealt with divested operations in the past.
You can access this reclassified historical information on our website.
With that I’ll now turn the call over to Fran.
Thanks Mike good morning everyone.
Our third quarter results demonstrate the consistency of our performance and our ability to compete effectively and deliver strong operating and financial results.
We entered the year with great confidence in our ability to generate strong financial performance in 2014 and our conviction has not changed.
We believe that steady and consistent investments in networks and platforms will drive innovative products and services and fuel our growth.
Our Wireless and Wireline networks will continue to be the hallmark of our brand and provide the fundamental strength upon which we build our competitive advantage.
The overall industry is very healthy and we continue to see strong customer demand for Wireless and broadband services.
U.S.
market has set the pace for global broadband infrastructure investments.
In Wireless all four national service providers are investing in 4G networks resulting in continued innovation 4G device adoption and increase in customer usage.
Our competitive position is strong and we’re focused on executing our strategy of providing a compelling value proposition and a great customer experience on the best most reliable network.
In the third quarter we produced very strong customer growth in Wireless and FiOS and sustained our strong growth trends in terms of revenue and earnings.
We pride ourselves on being an “and” company delivering quality growth and profitability.
We continue to stand apart from our peers with very consistent high quality earnings results.
We have posted double-digit year-over-year growth in reported and adjusted earnings and earnings per share in 10 of last 11 quarters.
In Wireless we had a very strong quarter of high quality connections growth and profitability.
Retail postpaid device activations of 11.7 million were up 14.9%.
This is higher volume than the fourth quarter last year when we activated 11.5 million devices.
Retail postpaid net adds totaled 1.5 million up 63.5% from last year.
Year-to-date postpaid net adds of 3.5 million were up 37.4% which is roughly 1 million more than a year-ago.
Our Wireless EBITDA service margin was 49.5%.
This is a very strong result given the volume of device activations and the relatively low percentage of customers choosing the Edge program in the quarter.
In Wireline we had a strong quarter in FiOS with 162 000 internet and 114 000 video net subscriber addition.
Consumer revenues grew 4.5%.
As we continue to drive FiOS penetration and customer adoption of our quantum broadband and video products.
Our Wireline EBITDA margin remained stable at 23%.
Our strong cash generation enables us to consistently invest in our networks for future growth and return value to our shareholders.
Through the first nine months of 2014 we have invested $12.6 billion of capital and paid $5.7 billion in dividend.
In early September we were pleased to announce that our Board of Directors approved a 3.8% dividend increase which raises our annual dividend to $2.20 per share.
This is the 8<sup>th</sup> consecutive year that our Board has approved a quarterly dividend increase and the highest percent increase since 2008.
Now let’s get into the third quarter performance in more detail starting with the consolidated results on Slide 4.
On a reported basis total operating revenue grew 4.3% in the third quarter.
If we exclude the revenues of the public sector business we divested from the prior period the comparable growth rate would have been 4.9% from the third quarter and 5.2% year-to-date.
Our consolidated top-line growth continues to be driven primarily by Wireless and FiOS.
In addition to top-line growth we continue to focus on driving process improvements and cost efficiencies through our Verizon Lean Six-Sigma program.
Consolidated EBITDA was $11.1 billion in the quarter and our EBITDA margin was 35%.
Let’s take a look at our cash flow results on Slide 5.
As I have noted in prior quarters it is important to remember that the transaction to acquire full ownership of Verizon Wireless create a lack of comparability between the current and prior period in our state in the cash flow.
The first nine months of 2014 cash flow from operations were $23.2 billion.
Additional cash outlays this year included $2.5 billion of incremental cash interest payments and higher cash income taxes of $3.2 billion.
In addition we had $1.5 billion in pension contributions that we did not make in 2013.
In spite of these additional cash outlets and higher capital spending free cash flow totaled $10.5 billion through the end of September.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $4.1 billion and were $12.6 billion year-to-date up $817 million or 6.9%.
We project that capital spending will be around $17 billion for the full year.
Our deployment of capital in Wireless has been very consistent throughout the first three quarters of this year.
In the third quarter Wireless CapEx was $2.5 billion and trough nine months totaled $7.8 billion.
We are deploying capital to proactively stay ahead of demand and our capital investments continue to focus on adding capacity to optimize our 4G LTE network primarily by increasing network density and deploying spectrum.
We have been actively deploying AWS spectrum across our nationwide footprint and currently have more than 400 markets with AWS or XLTE as we branded it.
Our continued deployment of spectrum along with investments in small sales distributed antenna systems and in building solutions will allow us to build upon our network advantage.
In Wireline capital expenditures totaled $1.5 billion in the quarter and $4.2 billion year-to-date down $273 million or 6.1%.
Our balance sheet remained strong and we continue to have the financial flexibility to grow the business and pursue our strategic goals.
Gross debt of $109.2 billion was down $750 million from last quarter.
Our net debt position improved to $102 billion and then net debt to adjusted-EBITDA ratio at the end of the quarter was 2.3 times.
Now let’s move into the review of the segment starting with Wireless on Slide 6.
Our Wireless strategy is built on making consistent network investments and providing a compelling value proposition to our customers.
This value proposition includes customer choice and an excellent service experience on the nation’s most reliable network.
Our investment strategy is focused on adding capacity to our network to meet increasing demand which is driven by 4G device adoption and higher customer usage.
Growth in Wireless revenue and profitability continues to be driven by our high quality retail postpaid customer base where we continue to see very strong 4G device adoption.
As I highlighted earlier we had another exceptional quarter of smartphone and tablet activations.
Customer demand on our network continues to increase at a rapid pace.
Our recently announced promotional pricing is designed to provide even greater appeal to our MORE Everything plan which we believe will drive more 4G device adoption and stimulate incremental usage on our more efficient LTE network.
We expect that continued success in driving 4G device activations in the fourth quarter will create profitable growth for us as we enter 2015 and beyond.
Total Wireless revenues in the quarter grew to $21.8 billion up 7%.
Service revenues grew 4.8% driven by 4G LTE connections growth and higher usage on our network.
The declining rate of service revenue growth is attributable to device mix price changes and the tradeoff between lower service revenue and higher monthly equipment billings for customers on Verizon Edge.
In the third quarter the percentage of phone activations by customers choosing Edge program was approximately 12% which was down from about 18% in the second quarter based on recent promotional pricing for Edge the percentage of phone activations taking the installment plan option could more than double in the fourth quarter.
In terms of profitability we generated $9.1 billion of EBITDA in the quarter and our service EBITDA margin was 49.5%.
The EBITDA benefit in the quarter from the Edge program was approximately $115 million.
Let’s now turn to a more detailed look at Wireless revenue per account beginning on slide 7.
Retail postpaid revenue per account or ARPA grew 3.5% in the quarter; growth in ARPA is a function of device adoption accounts growth and increased usage.
The continued rapid pace of 4G device adoption is improving the quality of our customer accounts.
In the third quarter we added 4.4 million 4G smartphones and 1.1 million 4G tablets to our postpaid connection space.
All of the important account metrics are improving.
We ended the quarter with a total of 35.4 million postpaid accounts and the number of postpaid connections per account was 2.82 which is an increase of 3.7%.
57% of our accounts are on MORE Everything share data plan.
The average data usage in MORE Everything accounts has increased nearly 50% year-over-year.
I would also point out that since the ARPA metrics is calculated using service revenue it does not capture the monthly equipment billings from customers on the Edge program.
In the third quarter these monthly equipment billings totaled about $285 million and were approximately $533 million year-to-date.
Let’s take a closer look in connections growth on slide 8.
We ended the quarter with 106.2 million total retail connections our industry leading postpaid connections base top the 100 million mark at 100.1 million and our prepaid connections totaled 6.1 million.
In passing the 100 million postpaid connections milestone it is worth noting that we’ve added more than 20 million new connections since 2009 representing a compound annual growth rate of around 5%.
Postpaid growth has totaled 4.5 million in the quarter up from 4.2 million in the second quarter and 3.7 million a year ago.
Year-to-date postpaid gross adds were up 15.1% in terms of the gross add mix in the third quarter 54% were smartphones and about 36% were connected devices primarily tablet.
Most of the remaining gross adds were basic phones.
Our retail postpaid churn rate of 1% was 3 basis points higher than the third quarter of last year.
As I highlighted earlier retail postpaid net adds in the quarter totaled 1.5 million compared with 1.4 million in the second quarter and 927 000 a year ago.
Our postpaid net add mix in the quarter included 2.3 million new 4G devices.
Within that total 1.2 million were 4G smartphones and 1.1 million were 4G tablets.
Postpaid phone net adds totaled 457 000 which is comparable to 481 000 in the third quarter last year.
Within the postpaid phone category the 1.2 million new 4G smartphone adds were partially offset by net declines in basic and 3G smartphones.
Tablet net adds were more than 1 million for the second consecutive quarter.
Tablets provide good growth to increase data consumption lower churn of the account level and have a lower cost subsidies in the smartphones.
We have significant headroom in terms of further penetration as our postpaid tablet base was 6.5 million at the end of the quarter.
Further customer adoption of tablets clearly represents an incremental growth opportunity for us.
Our postpaid upgrade rate was 7.2% in the third quarter.
Once again these were high quality smartphone upgrades either from a basic phone 3G to 4G or 4G to a newer 4G smartphones about 1.2 million were 18% of smartphone upgrade this quarter were from basic phones nearly 50% of the remaining smartphone upgrades were 3G to 4G which we monetized through higher data usage and lower cost to serve.
You will recall that in the fourth quarter of 2012 we activated 3.1 million 3G iPhones as it was the first time we offered a free apple device to customers signing a new two-year contract.
A majority of these customers will be coming off contract this quarter providing us with a unique opportunity to try 4G smartphone adoption almost all of our retail connections growth in 2014 have been postpaid.
The first nine months prepaid net adds were only 5000 compared with 274 000 in 2013 we believe that price sensitive prepaid customers are moving to the postpaid market.
Next let’s turn to the Slide 9 and take a look at the device activations and our continued progress in driving 4G adoption and usage.
As I have highlighted postpaid device activations were very strong at 11.7 million.
During the quarter we activated 8.9 million smartphones and 1.3 million tablets.
Our smartphone penetration at the end of the quarter increased to 77% of total phones.
We have 65.4 million smartphones in total and 48.2 million of them are 4G.
A year ago we had 29 million 4G smartphones that we’ve made significant progress in driving 4G penetration and yet we still have a significant opportunity in front of us with more than 17 million 3G smartphones and 20 million basic phones in our connections space.
Beyond smartphones tablets and other internet devices are contributing to our overall 4G device penetration.
At the end of the third quarter more than 59% of our retail postpaid connections were 4G up from 38% a year ago.
Data and video usage on our network continues to rise.
Currently about 79% of our total data traffic is carried on the 4G LTE network.
As we handle this increased demand our network continues to be acknowledged as the performance leader and national studies conducted by widely recognized third party organizations.
We have raised our own network standards and our performance continues to get better.
Let’s move next to our Wireline segment starting with a review our consumer and mass markets revenue performance on Slide 10.
In the consumer business we continue to see positive revenue trends driven by FiOS.
In the third quarter consumer revenue growth was 4.5% making it 9 consecutive quarters of growth in excess of 4%.
Mass market which includes small business grew 3.2%.
FiOS now represents 76% of consumer revenue and we’re sustaining strong double-digit revenue growth.
In the third quarter FiOS consumer revenue grew 12.3% driven by customer additions pricing actions and quantum penetration.
Strong adoption of quantum continued at 57% of our FiOS internet customers described of higher speed ranging from 50 megabytes to 500 megabytes per second.
We continue to enrich the customer value proposition and drive investment returns by creating new and innovative services on our FiOS platform.
In the second quarter we introduced FiOS quantum TV with enhanced features and functionality in terms of storage recording capabilities and control of content.
In July we introduced Speed Match a service upgrade that increases customer upload speeds to match their download speeds.
This competitive advantage provides FiOS customers with faster and more consistent upload speeds which is compelling for social media and gaming activities.
Our focus in FiOS markets is to drive higher penetration by adding quality customers generating profitable growth in a very competitive market and improving our overall investment returns.
In broadband we added 162 000 net FiOS internet customers in the quarter and now have 6.5 million subscribers representing 40.6% penetration.
Overall net broadband subscribers in the third quarter were up positive 69 000 up more than 23%.
In FiOS video we added 114 000 net subscribers that we now have 5.5 million subscribers representing 35.5% penetration.
During the quarter we converted 55 000 customers from copper to fiber bringing our year-to-date total to around 200 000.
This network evolution initiative is enabling us to systemically upgrade the network and provide higher quality of service to customer.
Beside from the maintenance savings and improvements in customer satisfaction conversions to fiber also provide a long-term opportunity for customer to purchase FiOS services which resulted in additional recurring revenue.
Let’s turn to Slide 11 and cover the enterprise and wholesale business.
In the enterprise space we continue to work through secular and economic challenges.
In the third quarter global enterprise revenue declined $155 million or 4.4%.
Revenue declines in legacy transport services and CPE continue to outweigh growth in newer and more strategic applications which were smaller in scale.
Strategic services totaled $2.1 billion and grew 1%.
This category as currently defined includes both the IP layer and application such as data center cloud security and managed and professional services.
Revenue from services in the IP layer have been impacted by competitive price compression which is offsetting growth in application services.
In our global wholesale business quarterly revenues declined $79 million or 4.8%.
Healthy demand for Ethernet services in each of last few quarters has offset a larger portion than expected as the revenue declines from price compression technology migration and other secular challenges.
In the third quarter Wireline operating expenses declined 1.7% and our EBITDA margin was 23%.
As we said we are making progress but are not satisfied.
We have more work to do in order to drive improved profitability in this segment.
On a year-to-date basis the Wireline EBITDA margin was up 60 basis points to 23%.
From an overall segment perspective our strategy is to continue scaling our FiOS business and improve the enterprise revenue mix by driving growth in the newer strategic services like cloud and security.
In addition we believe that process improvements and retooling efforts using Verizon Lean Six-Sigma principle will improve our cost structure and drive operating efficiency resulting in a stronger Wireline business.
Let’s move next to our summary slide.
With three quarters of 2014 behind us our financial performance has been strong.
We continue to deliver high quality double-digit earnings growth and our cash generation is strong enhanced by full access to all the Wireless cash flows.
These cash flows have allowed us to consistently invest in our networks and platforms for future growth and innovation.
In addition we returned value to shareholders with the 3.8% dividend increase.
We have a strong market position and that demonstrated the ability to compete effectively and execute our strategy.
Our high quality customer base in Wireless and Wireline continue to be the hallmark of our brand and provides the fundamental strength upon which we will build our competitive advantage.
We are also building for the future through our global platforms in video delivery and machine-to-machine.
New revenue streams from machine-to-machine in Telematics are beginning to emerge.
In the third quarter these revenues were approximately $150 million and totaled more than $400 million through nine months an increase of more than 40% year-to-date.
Our strong volume growth in both Wireless and FiOS gives us great confidence heading into the fourth quarter.
We continue to target consolidated revenue growth of 4% in 2014.
For the full year our consolidated adjusted-EBITDA margin as well as the Wireless EBITDA service margin results will be dependent on fourth quarter volumes and Edge installment plan take rates.
The Wireline EBITDA margin remains on track to expand on a full year basis.
With that I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.
Thank you Fran.
Before taking questions I would like to remind everyone that we filed an application to participate in the AWS-3 spectrum auction.
As a result due to the FCC’s rules we cannot answer any questions related to the auction or AWS-3 spectrum.
David we are now ready to take questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) One moment for the first question.
Your first question comes from David Barden of Bank of America.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys thanks for taking the question.
So two if I could.
First I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit in light of Lowell’s comments in the briefing about his conviction level confidence level about 4Q.
About the Cadence Competition and how you felt you had to respond over the course of the quarter obviously things started off fairly stable and then we have the T-Mobile promotion followed by the Sprint promotion followed by incremental actions in terms of double data and things like that.
So if you kind of give us a sense us to how the quarter trended and what you are seeing that’s giving you the confidence for the rest of the fourth quarter would be helpful.
And then second Fran I think that we have got a pretty good understanding that Smartphone customers have been generating roughly double the value of feature phone customers.
You are referencing the 4G Smartphone opportunity is beings something incremental to the 3G Smartphone opportunity.
If you could put some numbers around that that would be super helpful.
Thank you so much.
Okay great.
Thanks David.
So look on the competitive front.
I think that the takeaway here is just that we provide an extremely strong quarter from growth perspective and I anticipate you’re going to see that across the industry.
If you look at as I said we see a shift from prepaid to postpaid not necessarily within our base because of high quality and strict requirements we have from a credit perspective.
But there is still a lot of growth out there.
If you look at just the industry itself I mean you take tablets you take the video consumption you look at machine-to-machine and internet of things I mean all these things are contributing to our growth.
If you look at machine-to-machine for us it’s the first time we gave you a revenue number and that’s growing to 40% year-over-year.
So it’s more than just about a smartphone customer as I said before if I could I would stop disclosing net adds it’s all about how we build the base of revenue and how we continue to grow this business into the future.
If you look at the competitive front there was a lot of movement but it was not unexpected I mean as you go into the fourth quarter this is normally a very high competitive quarter it’s a very high volume quarter for ourselves from a holiday perspective but I think if you look at us as we’ve done in the past we look at what the competition is doing we take a very rational and logical approach to what we’re going to respond to? If you looked at what we did we responded with some Edge pricing on a promotional basis that quite honestly puts us back into the market given all the moves we were slightly out of the market like if you saw it back in the first quarter of this year we did similar things and we continue to grow and we continue to produce the profitability that’s expected of our shareholders.
So I think the response you’ve seen is a logical rational response there will be upcoming promotions I’m sure from everyone as the holiday season gets closer and we have our own plans in place to execute on.
So I think from a fourth quarter perspective you should expect high volume you should expect from us that our upgrade rate will increase we have the highest backlog of any previous launch of an iPhone that we have coming into the fourth quarter which is a high backlog of both new customers and also for upgrades.
So I know that our upgrade rate is going to be fairly significant in the fourth quarter as we said on the call here 3.1 million 2012 3G iPhone customers are waiting to upgrade now as they come out of contracts so that’s a great perspective and that leads me into your second question.
So if you think about some of the data points we have given you from a 3G smartphone customer to a 4G smartphone customer the first time we’ve told you that within our MORE Everything plan which is for the majority 4G smartphone customers.
Their usage pattern is going up 50% year-over-year.
If you look at tablets a tablet customer uses more than the 3G smartphone customer.
So if you start taking together with the volume increases and other industries have put out what the usage pattern of video customers are on a 4G LTE network video is a huge consumption for us and it continues to increase quarter-over-quarter year-over-year and that’s driving that 50% increase in usage in our 4G base.
So when you combine all of that every time we can move a customer from a 3G smartphone or a basic phone into our 4G portfolio their usage and revenue goes up.
So it’s a great combination for us.
And I’ll end the question that says again we’re focused on the quality of our base and the quality of our adds to generate our growth.
Thank you David.
David will ready for the next question.
Your next question comes from Phil Cusick of JPMorgan; please go ahead with your question.
Hi guys thanks.
Two things one to follow up Fran something you just said prepaid customers move into the postpaid market is that a good thing or bad thing do you think these customers offer a similar churn level that pass the credit check.
Right? And did they tend to bring their own devices or they taking Edge to the different rate from one feasibility you have and then second there has been a lot of articles written likely on asset sales from you whether that was Wireline assets or towers.
Can you give us an update on how you’re thinking about that? Thanks.
Thanks Phil.
On the prepaid customer move to postpaid look I mean we’re just looking at the overall industry and where prepaid growth is from a year ago to where it is today and the assumption is that we do we see the prepaid customer moving.
If you look at the entry prices now that are on postpaid and this is really around single line not multifamily.
But if you look at single line pricing those price points are pretty darn close to what a prepaid customer would pay on prepaid.
So the hurdle is there is a credit check and obviously for Verizon we’ve not changed our credit profile for any of our customers it’s same as it has been for over a year now even when Edge was introduced.
So again it’s not as favorable to us it was more of where are these customers going and we think they are going to a lower end type entry point which is not unusual.
I mean the same thing happened back in the Voice world when Voice became closer to what the prepaid were.
So from a device perspective some is on device but others are also buying up into device.
As far as the asset sales go look I’ve nothing to announce today.
We said publically that we certainly would entertain a sale of our towers if the terms and conditions were right.
And at this point we don’t have anything there.
And as Lowell and I’ve always said we continue to look at our portfolio for opportunities but it has to be at the right time the right place and the right price and so therefore there is really nothing to talk further because there is nothing to announce.
David next question please.
Your next question comes from Brett Feldman of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks for taking the question.
I just want to maybe a follow-up on the full year margin guidance it sounds like and correct me if wrong but it sounds like it’s most sensitive to the Edge take rate and so along those lines in the past you’ve been fairly agnostic or you’ve seen somewhat agnostic as to whether your customers were choosing a subsidy or choosing Edge.
I am wondering how you’re changing your thought process meaning are you trying to achieve desire outcome.
You noted that it looks like the take rate could double in the fourth quarter and then just broad levels is there a breaking point? Meaning if Edge were to see adoption rate above a certain level you probably will have margins that were up and if that was below they probably be down just sort of help us with the modeling exercise? So look there is a bunch of factors entering into the fourth quarter here.
As I said we do think that the Edge rate will take an uptick and you’ve probably seen us increasing our advertising around the price points of Edge which is where the rest of the industry has been and advertising around.
So we need to be in market with those price points which is why we launched the promotional pricing that you saw.
But if you look at the 12% this quarter or the 18% last quarter you can kind of get a flavor on what the impact is to our bottom line which is 120 basis points this quarter.
I think it was 134 basis points last quarter.
So beyond that I am not going to give any further information on that but if you think about the Edge take rate at the double then you can kind of extrapolate what that math would be but then offsetting that will be the upgrades.
And at this point I don’t know where the upgrade will come whether it will be Edge or onto the old subsidy model.
Again we’re very focused on customer choice we give our customers the choice of the subsidized handset with the higher service pricing or we give them the edge which they pay for the phone over the term but it gives them the availability to upgrade sooner.
So it is the customer choice and it’s hard for me to identify what that will be.
But as I said Brett we have a very high volume of backlog on the iPhone.
We have a bunch of new phones coming out in the fourth quarter from other manufacturers that are extremely good.
So I think we’ll have a great lineup of products.
It’s going to be a high volume highly competitive time of the year and beyond that I’m not going to give any specific guidance to margins but it will certainly be based on those volumes and how those customers come in.
David next question please.
Your next question comes from Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead with your question.
Fran you’ve talked about a $17 billion number for CapEx you're coming towards to the end of the ex-LTE rollout is there some opportunity for the -- it seems like the growth rate have slowed but some CapEx as a percent of revenues to fall over the coming quarters or are we going to continue keeping at this sort of rate as a percentage of revenues? And the on the Wireline side a bit of softness in SMB and enterprise you’ve talked about some of the secular factors do you detect any change in macro or in the competitive environment or is it just more of the same? So on CapEx we said we’d be around $17 billion.
As we’ve said that coming into this year we were determined to improve our CapEx to revenue ratio and I believe we will do that on a year-over-year basis.
This year we had a much more flatness to our CapEx spending so if you look at prior year we’ve always had more of a ramp into the back half of the year.
You won’t see that this year so it’s become more level and I do anticipate that we’ll be able to continue to improve on our CapEx-to-revenue ratio.
As far as whole dollars go we set around the $17 billion mark and I’ll give you some more guidance in January but I don’t anticipate that that will change pretty materially going into the next year.
So again the focus will be to continue to increase that CapEx-to-revenue ratio.
And then on the Wireline side first let’s talk about the consumer small business area so we did have an inflexion point this quarter where we did suffer a 4.1% decline in the small business and some of that was due a year-over-year comparison but some of that due to some onetime things and I think that will come back in line here in the fourth quarter.
But we did have a very good strong FiOS quarter at 4.5%.
The other thing I would say around FiOS is if you look at the components of content and our revenue per customer our revenue per customer is growing nicely and is actually outpacing the cost of content.
And this year if you look at our content cost we’re around that 2% to 4% growth rate in content.
So from a competitive standpoint that’s an advantage for us to drop more margins to the bottom on our consumer piece and if you look at FiOS FiOS continues to contribute more and more net income quarter-over-quarter so that’s a positive.
On the Enterprise side look I think that I feel like I record this every quarter and it does not change.
I really don’t see much change in the Enterprise spectrum.
If you look at the European market and it’s softening for us and also with the FX impact to some of that softness of where the dollar is.
So I think where we have a lot of headwinds right now in Enterprise and I will honestly tell you I don’t see that changing for at least the next couple of quarters at this point in time.
David next question please.
Your next question comes from Michael Rollins of Citi Investment Research.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
Fran you referenced that the MORE Everything plans were generating 50% greater usage year-over-year.
Is there a way to think about how much revenue that usage is contributing? And how you feel about the ability to monetize the growth in consumption in some of the rate plans have promoted higher usage buckets? Thanks.
Yeah thanks Michael.
So look I am not going to give you specific how the revenue increases.
I mean you can see that in our ARPA which is growing nicely if you see the sequential improvement in ARPA this quarter.
From last quarter it grew to a 161 from 159.
So if you look at year-over-year we are up 3.5%.
So I think that metrics speaks for itself as how we are monetizing the increased usage.
But if you think about this the 4G LTE network is three to four times more efficient than prior network.
So I guess I look at it this way if you back in time and you go back to the voice world.
And you go from the beginning of time to where that voice world matured.
What happened was the price per minute decreased and usage increased and the overall industry increased its revenue because of that increase in usage.
And I kind of look at the data world in the same perspective.
You are going to see the price per megabit decreased but the usage is going to outpace that.
And at least our Tier pricing structure and the MORE Everything planned.
Each time you upgrade you are going to incrementally pay a little bit more for what you use.
And that’s really what’s favoring in on the revenue growth.
But it’s also coming over very efficient network that does not cost incrementally to produce that increased usage.
So it’s a good combination to have in efficient network with an ever increasing consumption rate.
So I do anticipate that the structure works.
I think it’s going to grow as long as we increase the data bundle usage on a competitive standard basis.
I still think though with the increasing usage as we said 50% year-over-year you are still going to see a healthy growth in the revenue on an ARPA basis.
So think the combination works.
But you will see that megabit or price per megabit decrease with the continued increase in consumption.
Thanks.
Next question please David?  Your next question comes from John Hodulik of UBS.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Thank you.
Fran maybe a quick follow-up to Mike’s question on the service revenue.
I mean similar margins there is a lot of moving parts as we look into fourth quarter.
But you saw a 100 basis points of service revenue growth deceleration.
You are going to be having more Edge come through.
Is that the kind of deceleration we should see again in the fourth quarter or does it do all the upgrades sort of offset that.
That’s number one.
And then number two.
Apple obviously recently announced they move to soft SIM card at least for the iPads the new iPad that they are introducing.
Verizon was conspicuously absent from the companies in the U.S.
supporting that.
Can you give a little color in terms of your position in terms of that new product? Thanks.
Sure thanks.
So on the service revenue side look there is a lot of puts and pushes here from a service revenue perspective.
So if you go back I mean obviously we had a price change in the first quarter which is working its way through the system as we said before we were not going to reprice our base in one lump sum.
We would work on that and address those customers that were a high churn profile and treat them accordingly which we have done for many many years and we continue to do that.
And that puts a pressure on service revenue as we get them into the price plan that’s going to keep them on our network.
In addition Edge has an impact here because you are moving service revenue into equipment revenue when we gave you those numbers in the upfront comments of how you should think about that.
But that improves the -- if you take those recurring monthly billings on equipment revenue and put them back into the revenue stream that increases the rate of percentage increase that we have and also increases the service revenue growth year-over-year.
But look there is some deceleration here as Michael brought up on the last one.
As we continue to increase the bundles this is going to take a little bit of time before people have to take the next step up.
But I will tell you this quarter with our NFL agreement and the amount of video consumption we are having.
We had one of the best quarters ever of customers stepping up for the next bucket.
So again I think all these things factor into it but Edge will definitely have a deceleration factor on the service revenue.
As far as the soft card SIM card with Apple.
We have our own SIM card that we are putting in the devices both in our indirect channels and our store channel.
So that’s really all that is to be said on that issue.
Okay thanks Fran.
David next question please?  Your next question comes from Mike McCormack of Jefferies.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys thanks.
Fran could you just hit briefly on the small medium enterprise marketplace.
It seems like you have continued weakness what you pointed out.
How much of that is technology migration versus the cable competitors starting to move up market a little bit.
And then secondly thinking about over the top there is been a lot of stuff in the past couple of weeks and it seems like sort of a building discussion between HBO CBS.
How do you guys think about that? I know bought the Intel OnCue business.
When do you get more aggressive there?  Okay thanks Mike.
So look on the enterprise space I think there is a couple of things here.
I mean you do have the Tech Refresh and obviously as they come off legacy and going into IP.
I mean the IP has a lower price point.
And then also as I said in my opening remarks this IP market is becoming more and more competitive from a pricing perspective.
So as what we’re faced with as we have major customers who are renewing coming off 3 and 5 year contracts.
Obviously they’re being reprised back into where the IP market is today which is pretty significantly lower than it was 3 to 5 years ago.
So you’re having that pricing pressure happen there we’re gaining new business but again it’s coming in at a lower rate and we still have that decline of voice and LB that’s going away and it just can’t offset it.
From a strategic services perspective we’re seeing some good things here we’re also seeing some improvement in the federal space but as you know in this business when you start to improve it could take 6 to 8 months before that revenue comes to be as you implement this new technology.
So there is some glimmer of hope here as the federal government starts to purchase more but we’re probably not going to see any of that until ‘15 but then again that we’re working against the bunch of headwinds as far as repricing on the IP in the tech refresh.
As far as cable and what’s happening in the small business look I mean as I said in the previous quarters where we have FiOS and compete in the small business market we’re gaining share.
We’re losing share outside of that FiOS footprint in the old copper and I’m not going to be able to compete there with the speed.
So that is something that we’re just going to continue to see here into the future around that copper plant.
But within FiOS we continue to gain share we expand where we can to capture more small businesses in that footprint and we capitalize on that but we’ve to remember it’s only in 13 states.
As far as over the top goes I think that the way I look at this is great for the customer this is great for the industry this shows that there are new innovative type arrangements that are happening and as we said before we’re having discussions with a lot of content providers around innovative models going forward and I think this sets a lot of space so I think it opens up a lot of doors and it’s something optimistic for the future of the video business.
Okay and just like a quick follow up on the small medium piece of it do you see cable gaining more capabilities there or there is still really relegated to the very small customer base?  Well when they say that they are moving up my perception of this as we’ve look at small medium business and then even in the medium business we capture medium business as anyone that has a 1 000 or less employees so it’s a pretty different definition of where they’re seeing they’re moving up from versus where we are playing.
And again within our enterprise business we’re really focused on the major large enterprise customers and we really deal with that small business which is what we classify as 20 and below employees within our FiOS arena.
So it is a different spectrum of definition but look they are increasing their capability they’re having success in that what I would consider small business arena maybe the lower and mid business level but they’ll continue to do what they do and we’ll continue to do what we do.
Great thanks guys.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Kevin Smithen of Macquarie; please go ahead with your question.
Thanks Fran can we talk a little bit about your net debt targets? Obviously with the spectrum auction coming up potential assets sales all of this stuff is going impact your ability to deleverage going forward.
Can you talk a little bit about kind of where we should think about net debt at the end of ’15 and given the lower interest rate environment does that change your calculus on the amount of leverage you want to leave on the balance sheet?  Thanks Kevin.
So it is what I’ll say because I’m not going to give any guidance of where I think our debt will be in ’15 at this point but today where we stand is as you see where we’re at net debt of $102 billion with our gross debt at $109.2 billion we have a net debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 2.3 and the gross debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 2.5.
I’ll reference you back to S&amp;P report that came out like maybe a month ago on some projections around what they thought we would spend in the future for auctions and also how much debt that they think that we would pay down and report was extremely optimistic and said that they could see us being upgraded within the 12 to 24 month period of time as things continue.
So I think we are right on track with where we said we would be when we close on the Vodafone deal I said that we wanted to get back to A minus rating within 4 to 5 years the S&amp;P report shows that that could be accelerated based on our performance here.
We are generating strong cash flow and what I would tell you is we’re in a great position to execute on the strategic initiative that we need to execute on but we’ll have more to say on this as we close out this year and come to our call in January.
And just quickly on FiOS we’ve seen a last few years significant price hikes which as you indicated is more than offset programming cost increases kind of as you look at the ’15 should we expect more of that and can you too have revenue growth outpace cost inflation on the FiOS side? Yes so I will guidance next call on where we think FiOS growth rate will be but here is what I’ll say is last year we did our price increases in the fourth quarter we’re doing that again this year to be ready to absorb the content cost that always happen on January 01 so that’s something that you should anticipate and you will see.
Thanks.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Amir Rozwadowski of Barclays.
Please go ahead with your question.
Fran just building on Mike’s prior question on the recent developments around over-the-top and unbundling it seems as though you feel pretty comfortable around the opportunity particularly giving you investment in fiber and delivering from these high bandwidth capabilities to you customer.
I was wondering if you think about the competitive landscape and developments like this does it strengthen your view on the diminishing ability for competitive direct video services like satellite technology to compete and what seems to be an increasing on-demand and OTT world? And then I guess secondly if we think about the opportunity on the Wireless side you folks have made a number of tuck-in acquisitions around content distribution and I was wondering how we should think about and obviously there is the relationship with the NFL how we should think about the opportunities on that front? And when we could start to see some either material adoption from customers or sort of some of these new revenue streams come to fruition? Thanks a lot.
So a couple of thoughts here Amir so number one is when I look at the quote over-the-top type of video area I mean there is two avenues there is the over-the-top into the home and there is the over-the-top via Wireless.
And I think over-the-top via Wireless you’re already starting to see that with agreements like the NFL and some other things.
I also think that with the technology of multicast coming this will certainly open up doors for more of that content to be delivered over-the-top via the Wireless network because multicast is so efficient in delivering a programming type service over the LTE network.
But of course that will be major around more live events concerts sports those types of things.
As far as over-the-top into the broadband home I think that what this says is that the content providers there have realized that there is a whole population out there that do not subscribe the satellite TV or linear TV and they’re trying to penetrate that millennial base that does not have these types of offers and wants something smaller more convenient for them.
And as I said I think this brings in a lot of innovative type models of how to really attack some of these other segments of the marketplace that don’t have that type of service.
Do I think in the near-term this is going to decrease linear TV or satellite TV? No I don’t.
But I think it’s another avenue of how we open up the ecosystem with innovative models and that’s something that we’re very-very interested in especially around Wireless and even as we go out into more of the broadband type market.
David next question please.
Your next question comes from Jennifer Fritzsche of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead with question.
Fran I realized you can’t talk about the AWS-3 Auction but I wanted to explore the broadcast auction last time we’ve heard from you you said there you needed to know more about the rules to kind of express your enthusiasm.
We know little bit more today I just wanted kind of take your pulse on what your thoughts are as we look at it today? Yes so Jennifer unfortunately I can’t I’m not actually allowed to -- my lawyers have told me I am not allowed to answer any type of spectrum questions and at this point it’s still far in the future and we’re focused on the current one.
So I think at this point I’ll leave it at that.
Got it if I could just explore just an M2M question then.
Sure.
Obviously great growth there you’ve guided or talked about 40% growth year-over-year.
Do you think we’re the point we’re kind of seeing this near move or we’ve often then dream for or is this the year really accelerating ‘14 ’15 rather? Well I think that as we try to allude over the last couple of quarters we gave you growth rate this quarter.
We’re giving you revenue numbers and we’ll continue to do that going forward.
As I said before this is not necessarily about how many connections I put on the network.
This is about how many of those connections actually pay revenue when we earn money.
And so as you know we stopped this closing connection a while ago.
But I will tell you that the connection growth is ever increasing here.
There is a lot of avenues that are being open up around Internet of Things around healthcare around energy management fleet.
So you can go through all the verticals and there is some many solutions that are coming to forbear which is why over -- I guess now a year and half ago we opened up our second innovation center out in Palo Alto.
So this is something that we’re very-very focused on I think there is a lot of good opportunity here and this will certainly be a driver of growth for the entire industry.
The other thing I think that separates us apart from our competition is obviously with our Hughes acquisition.
We play an another tower that no one else plays I mean everybody is playing today in the connectivity tower but with our Hughes acquisition we’re actually playing in the customer service and concierge tower as well and being able to deliver some of that big data and looking at ways to monetize some of that data to our end customers who are really business customers who are looking at business-to-business versus business-to-consumers.
So this is just another area I think of growth for the industry and obviously we’re capable to capitalize on that.
David we have time for one more question please.
And you last question today comes from Jonathan Schildkraut of Evercore Partners.
Please go ahead with your question.
I got a question on LTE broadcast I just wanted to get an update on where we were and understand whether sort of implementation go forward as about technology or is it about content? And then Fran you’ve made some interesting comments about sort of the growth of video within the date consumption packages that you currently have.
And I’m wondering if you looked at what amount of that video could ultimately be sent out over LTE broadcast and potential implications to margins? Thanks.
Sure thanks Jonathan.
So look LTE multicast the network was ready in August of this past year so we have to build out the network to be able to handle multicast as you know we demonstrated it back in January with the Super Bowl where the network is capable the chipsets are now being implemented into most of the devices that are coming out in the fourth quarter some phones in the third quarter have those chipsets but most will have it in the fourth quarter not all.
So look the way I look at this ecosystem is that’s going to us about a year before those chipsets ramp and there we have some volume there which gets the attention of the content provider.
But as I said before having a lot of great conversations with content providers they’re excited about it but again they want to see how many customers actually have the capability to use that technology and I think that will be a year away but I think that opens up a lot of new avenues for us.
I don’t know yet what the -- how the ecosystem will generate revenue on this is it a revenue share model is it an advertising model this is a consumer pay model we’re not sure yet of how the ecosystem will play itself out and I think that will come within the next year.
The other critical piece here is that for the first time coming in the fourth quarter we’ll have an independent third party to be tell the content providers who actually watches their shows on a mobile handset which has never been able to be done before other than from the carriers.
So I think this does again open up some of that ecosystem.
So from that perspective I think we’re really in good shape from an ecosystem perspective and as far as the bundling goes and the usage goes again what the way to see how this multicast technology comes to market and how it’s capitalized on it.
Alright thank you but before we end the call I’d like to turn the call back to Fran for few closing remarks.
Thanks Mike and thanks everyone for joining us today.
Here is my closing comments I guess I’d say look we had another strong quarter of operating and financial results we count ourselves on a quality base and a quality addition.
We count on the quality of our network and driving top line growth and profitability.
By focusing on execution around the assets we already have in place we’re delivering consistent high quality earnings and returning value to our shareholders.
At the same time we’re developing new products and services in the areas of video delivery over the top machine-to-machine for future growth and profitability.
We have great confidence in our ability to execute on our strategy and grow the business profitably while making the necessary capital investments to position us for the future.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
And welcome to the Verizon Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be opened for questions following the presentation.
[Operator Instructions] Today’s conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Michael Stefanski Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Thanks David.
Good morning.
And welcome to our fourth quarter earnings conference call.
This is Mike Stefanski and I’m here with Fran Shammo our Chief Financial Officer.
As a reminder our earnings release financial and operating information the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website.
Replays and a transcript of this call will also be made available on our website.
Before we get started I’d like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement on slide two.
Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties.
Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon’s filings with the SEC which are available on our website.
This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in the financial materials we have posted to our website.
Before Fran goes through our performance results I like to cover our earnings reconciliation for the fourth quarter and highlight a few special items.
These are displayed on slide three.
For the fourth quarter we reported a loss of $0.54 per share on a GAAP basis.
This reported result includes several significant non-operational items that I would like to highlight.
The largest item is our year-end mark-to-market adjustment of pension and OPEB liabilities.
This year we recorded a pretax expense of $7 billion to increase our pension and OPEB liability.
This adjustment which was primarily non-cash was caused by changes in the discount rate the adoption of new mortality tables and other actuarial assumptions.
We also incurred pretax expenses of $502 million related to severance costs under our existing separation plans.
On an after-tax basis these two charges amounted to $4.7 billion or $1.12 per share.
We also incurred non-operational expenses of $872 million in connection with early debt redemption and other costs.
On an after-tax basis these charges amounted to $528 million or $0.13 per share.
Details regarding the income statement line item effects for these items are available on our website in the Financial and Operating Information and Non-GAAP Reconciliation schedules.
Excluding the non-operational charges of $1.25 per share adjusted earnings per share was $0.71 in the fourth quarter.
This compares with adjusted EPS of $0.66 a year ago an increase of 7.6%.
For the full year adjusted earnings per share was $3.35 compared with $2.84 in 2013 an increase of 18%.
Keep in mind that the $3.35 adjusted EPS does not reflect full ownership of Verizon Wireless from the beginning of 2014 since the transaction closed on February 21st.
The results and growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and remarks exclude the effects of the non-operational items and are therefore on an adjusted basis.
Also the growth rates we provide on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.
I would like to remind everyone that due to the FCC's rules we cannot discuss or answer any questions related to the auction or AWS-3 spectrum.
When the rules permit we do plan to provide you with an update on our participation.
With that I will now turn the call over to Fran.
Thanks Mike.
Good morning everyone and happy New Year.
2014 was a great year of execution and achievement for Verizon from both a strategic and financial perspective.
We delivered strong operating and financial performance and further demonstrated our ability to compete effectively in any environment.
Strategically our most notable accomplishment was completing the transaction for full ownership of Verizon Wireless.
We closed the deal in late February providing immediate earnings accretion and full access to the cash flows of what we believe is the best Wireless asset in the world.
Throughout the year we continued our steady and consistent investment in our networks and platforms which are critical to driving profitable growth in the future.
Our strong cash generation enabled us to invest $17.2 billion of capital and returned value to shareholders through dividend payments which totaled $7.8 billion for the year.
Last September our Board of Directors approved 3.8% dividend increase raising the annual amount to $2.20 per share.
At the same time we are investing and innovating for the future through new growth businesses and integrated product development efforts in rapidly evolving markets like mobile video and the Internet of Things.
The foundation of our continued success is network excellence which is the hallmark of the Verizon brand.
We believe that steady and consistent network and platform investments provide the foundation for innovative products and services which will fuel profitable growth.
The depth and breadth of our networks provide the fundamental strength and basis for our competitive advantage.
Our industry is strong and demand is growing with customers using Wireless and Broadband even more and in different ways than ever before.
Our competitive position is very strong and we are well-positioned from a strategic standpoint to capitalize on these market trends.
In Wireless we had another exceptional year of quality connections growth and profitability.
Retail postpaid net adds totaled 5.5 million for the year with 2 million coming in a highly competitive fourth quarter that featured heavy promotional activity.
Postpaid activations gross additions upgrades and net adds all grew by double-digit percentages in 2014.
Total operating revenues grew 8.2% for the year and our EBITDA service margin was 48.5% even with the short-term pressure of significant device volumes in the fourth quarter.
In Wireline consumer revenues grew 5% for the year driven by our FiOS platform.
In 2014 we continue to increase penetration in existing markets and ended the year at 41% for Internet and just under 36% for video.
Our sharp focus on productivity improvements and operating efficiency resulted in an 80-basis point expansion of our EBITDA margin to 23.2% for the full year.
Now let's get into the fourth quarter and full-year performance in more detail starting with our consolidated results on slide five.
On a reported basis total operating revenue grew 6.8% in the fourth quarter.
For the full year we added $6.5 billion to our topline representing 5.4% growth which exceeded our guidance of 4% consolidated revenue growth for 2014.
If we exclude the prior period revenues from the public sector business we sold the comparable growth rates would have been 7.3% for the fourth quarter and 5.7% for the full year.
Our data revenue growth continued to be driven by Wireless and FiOS.
In the fourth quarter growth was favorably impacted by increased Wireless equipment revenue due to the significant 4G device activations.
New revenue streams from the Internet of Things and telematics are beginning to emerge.
In 2014 these revenues totaled about $585 million with growth of more than 45%.
There are countless innovative technology solutions being developed in the Internet of Things ecosystem across multiple industries.
A great example of this was unveiled last week at the North American International Auto Show where we announced Verizon Vehicle a powerful new connected-vehicle service.
This unique aftermarket solution modernizes traditional roadside assistance while enhancing driver safety and convenience.
We expect this service to launch commercially in the second quarter.
The addressable market is more than 200 million vehicles on the road today that are not connected to the Internet or have a GPS unit.
We believe that this large unserved market stands to greatly benefit from this new car Wireless connectivity solution.
In addition to topline growth we continue to focus on driving process improvements and cost efficiencies through our Verizon Lean Six Sigma program.
Consolidated adjusted EBITDA totaled $43.3 billion in 2014 an increase of 2.9% and our adjusted EBITDA margin for the full year was 34.1%.
Let's take a look at our cash flow results on slide 6.
As I previously noted the transaction to acquire full ownership of Verizon Wireless created a lack of comparability between the current and prior periods in our statement of cash flows.
In 2014 cash flows from operations totaled $30.6 billion.
In addition to incremental cash interest and tax payments we made $1.5 billion in pension contributions that we did not have to fund in 2013.
In spite of these additional cash outlays and higher capital spending free cash flow totaled $13.4 billion for the year.
Our capital program was consistent with our guidance of around $17 billion for the year with improving capital efficiency.
In total capital expenditures were $4.6 billion in the fourth quarter and $17.2 billion for the full year up 3.5% from 2013.
Our annual CapEx to revenue ratio was 13.5% an improvement from 13.8% in 2013.
The pace of capital spending in Wireless was very consistent throughout all four quarters of the year.
Wireless CapEx was $2.7 billion in the quarter and $10.5 billion for the full year.
We continue to invest the necessary capital to proactively stay ahead of demand.
Our investments are focused on adding capacity to optimize our 4G LTE network primarily by increasing network density.
We are deploying existing AWS spectrum in addition to utilizing small cell technology in building solutions and distributed antenna systems.
As I am sure you’ve seen from our advertising we now have deployed AWS or XLTE as we have branded it in more than 400 markets effectively doubling our existing capacity.
And despite what others claim about certain aspects of their networks when you look across the entire nation and consider all the relevant performance metrics Verizon has the nation's largest and most reliable 4G LTE network.
We are consistently acknowledged as the performance leader in national studies conducted by widely recognized third-party organizations.
In Wireline capital spending totaled $1.6 billion in the quarter and $5.8 billion for the year down 7.7% from 2013.
Our balance sheet remained strong and we continue to have the financial flexibility to grow the business and pursue our strategic goals.
We ended the year with $113.3 billion of gross debt and $102.7 billion of net debt.
We significantly improved the maturity profile of our debt portfolio during 2014 through various debt market transactions.
The ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA was 2.4 times.
We remain committed to getting back to our pre-transaction credit rating profile into 2018 to 2019 timeframe.
Now let's move into review of the segments starting with Wireless on slide 7.
Our Wireless strategy is built on making consistent network investments and providing a compelling value proposition to our customers.
Our investment strategy is focused on adding network capacity ahead of accelerating demand which is driven by increasing 4G device adoption and higher customer usage.
Wireless revenue growth profitability and cash flows continue to be driven by our high quality retail postpaid customer base.
In 2014 we strengthened the overall quality of our customer accounts.
We added 24.7 million 4G devices into our postpaid connection space representing annual growth of about 58%.
In addition we increased the number of More Everything shared data plans to 61% of total accounts.
The average connections per account grew 4% in ARPA plus Edge installment billings increased by more than 5% in 2014.
As I stated coming out of the third quarter we expected and closed the year with the very high volume quarter.
Total postpaid device activations in the fourth quarter were unprecedented totaling 15.3 million up nearly 34% over last year.
More than 13 million were phones driven by iconic smartphone launches from both Apple and Samsung.
To give some historical perspective these phone activations were 1.5 million higher than the fourth quarter of 2012 which at that time was a record high because it was the first time of 4G iPhone or our free 3G iPhone was available on our network.
The usage characteristics of these iconic 4G smartphones also generate strong returns and higher NPV.
Our fourth quarter promotions were successful driving a sequential and year-over-year increase in gross adds net adds and upgrades.
This customer growth sets us up very well for profitable growth in 2015 and beyond as we drive usage and leverage the efficiencies of our LTE network.
Total Wireless operating revenues were $23.4 billion in the fourth quarter up 11%.
For the full year operating revenues totaled $87.6 billion representing growth of $6.6 billion or 8.2%.
Total service revenues grew 2.8% in the fourth quarter and 5.2% for the full year.
Verizon Edge installment billings totaled $443 million in the quarter and $976 million for the full year.
Service revenues plus Edge installment billings grew 5.2% in the fourth quarter and 6.6% for the full year.
As we expected the percentage of phone activations on the Edge program increased to about 25% in the fourth quarter.
We ended the year with slightly more than 7 million phones on Edge which is just over 8% of our postpaid phone base.
In terms of profitability we generated $7.7 billion of EBITDA in the quarter and $35.2 billion for the full year an increase of more than $1 billion or 3%.
Our EBITDA service margin for the fourth quarter was 42% due to the significant device volumes.
For the full year the EBITDA service margin was 48.5% compared with 49.5% in 2013.
The full year EBITDA margin on total Wireless revenue was 40.2% compared with 42.2% for 2013.
Now let's turn to a more detailed look at Wireless revenue per account beginning on slide eight.
Retail postpaid service revenue per account or ARPA grew 1% in the fourth quarter and 3.9% for the full year.
If you add the Edge installment billings to ARPA the growth rates increased to 3.5% for the quarter and 5.3% for the full year.
We ended the year with 35.6 million postpaid accounts an increase of 1.5%.
The number of postpaid connections per account grew to 2.87 up 4% from a year ago.
As I said the number of customers’ accounts on More Everything shared data plans increased from 46% to 61% of total.
As you would expect the average number of connections in More Everything plans are higher at 3.06 per account and grew faster up more than 7%.
And the average data usage in these accounts has increased by about 50% in the past year.
Let’s take a closer look at connections growth on slide nine.
We ended the year with 108.2 million total retail connections.
Our industry-leading postpaid connections space grew 5.5% to 102.1 million and our prepaid connections totaled 6.1 million.
As we said 2014 was a year of historical connections growth.
Postpaid gross additions were 5.4 million in the quarter up 25.5%.
For the year postpaid gross adds totaled 17.8 million up 18% from 2013 and 20% higher than 2012.
In terms of the gross add mix in the quarter 55% were smartphones and about 37% were Internet devices primarily tablets about 6% were basic phones.
This percentage mix is also representative of the full year.
As we said in our updates we did experience an alleviative rate of retail postpaid churn in the fourth quarter at 1.14%.
Throughout the year we maintained a disciplined approach to customer acquisition and retention with the focus on attracting and retaining high quality customers.
Within a heightened amount of phone activity in the fourth quarter we are pleased with the overall improvement in the quality of our phone base.
Our retail postpaid net additions of 2 million in the fourth quarter were up 26% year-over-year and 31% sequentially.
Our 5.5 million postpaid net additions for the year compare favorably with the 4.1 million in 2013 and 5 million in 2012.
As far as the postpaid net add mix the fourth quarter including 1.5 million new 4G smartphones and 1.4 million 4G tablet.
Postpaid phone net adds totaled 672 000 as the 1.5 million 4G smartphones were offset in part by net declines in basic and 3G smartphones.
Full year net adds of 5.5 million included 4.6 million 4G smartphones and 4.3 million 4G tablets.
The offset to these additions were net declines in basic phones 3G smartphones and non-tablet internet devices.
Let’s now turn to slide 10 and take a look at device activations and our success in driving 4G adoption and usage.
Total postpaid device activations totaled 15.3 million in the quarter up nearly 34%.
For the full year postpaid activations totaled 48.1 million up 16% from 2013 about 85% of these activations were phones and the rest were mainly tablet.
4G LTE devices now comprise 66% of our retail postpaid connection space.
This strong device adoption continues to drive increased usage.
We ended the year with 67.7 million smartphones in total about 80% of which were 4G.
Smartphone penetration increased to 79% of total phones about 75% of our phone activations in the quarter were customer upgrades.
In total about 9.8% of our retail postpaid base upgraded to a new device in the fourth quarter.
As you would expect a vast majority of these upgrades were 4G smartphones.
Most of our smartphone upgrades represent an incremental revenue opportunity for us.
1.2 million were upgrades from basic phones about 46% of the remaining smartphone upgrades were 3G to 4G which we monetized through higher data usage and a lower cost to serve.
We also continue to successfully identify and retain a high percentage of what we call high-risk high-value accounts.
Looking ahead we still have a sizable quality upgrade opportunity with about 13 million 3G smartphones and 18.5 million basic phones remaining in our postpaid connections base.
We are very focused on this opportunity to upgrade customers and protect our high-quality postpaid base.
In addition we also have a profitable growth opportunity with further penetration of tablets.
We ended the year with about 8 million postpaid tablets in our connections base.
Tablets have expanded the market for postpaid devices and provide us a good value through increase data consumption and lower churn at the account level.
Data and video usage on our network continues to rise about 84% of our total data traffic was on the 4G LTE network.
We are handling this demand and by our own measures the network performance continues to improve.
Let's move next to our Wireline segment starting with a review of our consumer and mass markets revenue performance on slide 11.
In the Consumer business we continue to see positive revenue trends driven by FiOS.
In fact we have posted 10 consecutive quarters of revenue growth in excess of 4%/.
In the fourth quarter Consumer revenues grew 4.1% and for the full year were up 5% exceeding our guidance of at least 4% growth.
Mass markets which includes small business grew 3% in the quarter and 3.8% for the full year.
FiOS now represents 77% of Consumer revenue.
In the fourth quarter FiOS Consumer revenue grew 11.1% driven by a combination of customer growth pricing actions and increase FiOS quantum penetration.
At the end of the year 59% of our FiOS internet customers subscribe to data speed higher than 50 megabits per second.
This is up from 46% at the end of 2013.
Throughout the year we continue to improve the customer value proposition driving better investment returns by creating new and innovative services on our FiOS platform.
During 2014 we introduced FiOS Quantum TV.
Another differentiated offer was our Speed Match service which increases customer upload speeds to match their download speeds.
In December we introduced the FiOS Quantum Gateway our new router that delivers America's fastest Wi-Fi.
You will begin to see more marketing of this router and its capability shortly.
Looking ahead our focus will remain on driving higher penetration in the existing markets which in turn will generate profitable growth and further improve our investment returns.
In Broadband we added 145 000 net FiOS customers in the quarter and 544 000 for the year.
We have a total of 6.6 million FiOS Internet subscribers representing 41.1% penetration which is up 160 basis points for the year.
Overall net Broadband subscribers increased 59 000 in the quarter and 190 000 for the full year.
In FiOS video we added 116 000 net customers in the quarter and 387 000 for the year.
We have a total of 5.6 million FiOS video subscribers which represents 35.8% penetration an increase of 80 basis points in 2014.
In terms of our network evolution initiative we converted an additional 52 000 Copper customers in the quarter bringing our year-to-date total to around 255 000.
In total we have converted more than 800 000 customers to fiber since we started this initiative in 2011.
Aside from the maintenance savings and improvements in customer satisfaction conversions to fiber also provide a long-term opportunity for customers to purchase FiOS services which result in additional recurring revenue.
In 2015 we plan to convert another 200 000 Copper customers to fiber.
During 2014 we also continued our consolidation efforts around central offices which will recreate additional efficiencies.
We have a strong commitment to customer service and have implemented several new frontline tools that are improving efficiency and increasing customer satisfaction.
While we benchmark well against the competition we have more work to do in 2015 to take our performance to the next level.
Let's turn to slide 12 and cover enterprise and the wholesale business.
In the enterprise space we continue to work through secular and economic challenges.
In the fourth quarter global enterprise revenue declined 4.6% which included about $30 million of pressure from FX.
For the full year revenue of $13.7 billion was down 3.5%.
The overall story is unchanged as declines in legacy transport revenue and CPE continue to outweigh growth in the newer and more strategic applications which are smaller in scale.
Strategic services grew 1.5% in the quarter and 2.3% for the year.
This category includes both of IP layer and application such as data center cloud security and managed and professional services.
Revenue from services in the IP layer has been impacted by competitive price compression which is offsetting growth in application services.
In our global wholesale business revenues declined 5.8% in the quarter and 5.6% for the full year.
On the positive side healthy demand for Ethernet services continues but revenue declines from price compression technology migration and other secular challenges more than offset this growth.
Total operating revenues for the Wireline segment were down 1.6% in the quarter and 0.5% for the full year.
In terms of profitability EBITDA increased 4.3% in the quarter and 3% for the full year.
The EBITDA margin was 23.9% in the quarter and 23.2% for the year up 80 basis points from 2013.
While we are making steady progress in the Wireline business and achieved our goal of expanding margins we are far from satisfied.
There is more work to do to drive sustainable improvements in both revenue growth and profitability.
Our path to improve profitable growth includes driving further FiOS penetration and improving operating and capital efficiency.
In the enterprise and the wholesale business we are changing our revenue mix toward newer growth services like cloud security and professional services.
On the cost side of the equation we have realized many noteworthy process improvements and efficiency gains utilizing our Verizon Lean Six Sigma principles.
We are confident that this continued focus will improve our overall cost structure ultimately resulting in a much stronger Wireline business.
Let's move next to our summary slide.
Our operating and financial performance in 2014 demonstrated once again that we are in a strong market position with a proven ability to compete effectively and execute our strategy.
Our high quality customer base and superior networks are the hallmark of our brand and provide the fundamental strength upon which we will build our competitive advantage.
2014 was a remarkable year from a financial viewpoint.
We delivered 18% growth in adjusted earnings per share with very strong cash flows.
We executed a strategically important $130 billion transaction through a combination of debt and equity.
Our strong cash generation allowed us to invest $17.2 billion in capital pay $7.8 billion in dividends make incremental cash interest in tax payments and redeem higher coupon notes in the course of restructuring our debt maturity schedule.
In addition we declared a 3.8% dividend increase and improved our cash position since the closing of the Vodafone transaction.
Our customer growth in the fourth quarter particularly in Wireless gives us a great confidence heading into 2015.
In terms of our 2015 outlook it is difficult to predict the competitive intensity with others particularly in Wireless.
However we have faced highly competitive Wireless environments before and I have always been able to successfully and profitably grow the business because our customers understand the value of our services.
In this environment we will continue to protect our base by focusing on net adds and upgrades that make financial sense for our business.
We will also continue to focus on growing in the right customer segments while at the same time creating new revenue streams for the future.
Over a sustained period of time our industry is governed by free cash flow dynamic.
To be successful companies need to generate free cash flow which can be invested in their networks to attract and retain customers by providing a quality experience.
In that context we are targeting the following for 2015 consolidated revenue growth of at least 4% sustain profitability with a consolidated adjusted EBITDA margin at a level consistent with our full year 2014 performance strong free cash flow generation with consolidated capital spending of between $17.5 billion and $18 billion and a minimum pension funding requirement of approximately $700 million.
In terms of income taxes we realized the cash benefit in 2014 due to the extension of bonus depreciation which will also have a carryover benefit in 2015.
However with the full year of 100% Wireless net income we expect total cash income taxes to increase in 2015.
We also expect our effective tax rate for book purposes to be in the area of 34% to 36%.
With that I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.
Thank you Fran.
David we are now ready to take the first question.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question today comes from Phil Cusick of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys.
Thanks.
Fran I guess to start speaking of free cash flow needs in the Wireless industry can you help us range your 2015 free cash flow given the commentary on higher cash pension expense EIP and CapEx? Thanks Phil.
I’m not going to get into the specific guidance on free cash flow but you can see what we generated this year.
I’ve guided you to a consistent EBITDA margin on a growth rate of revenue of at least 4% and I want to stress that at least 4%.
The other thing is I think that cash taxes at this point given where we are if we don't give bonus extension from '15 into '16 that obviously that puts more pressure in '16 on cash taxes as well.
So I'm not going to get into specific guidance on that metric but I think I've given enough to put us in the ballpark.
Maybe I can try again.
Given the revenue growth can you talk about your assumptions on the Edge mix in 2015 so how much of that revenue growth should we think about is coming from equipment revenue that’s more recognized than cash? Thanks.
Yeah.
So I think on the revenue growth side of at least 4% if you think about that metric.
What we are planning for right now is that our Edge take rate probably increases to around 34% 35% take rate so some of that will be equipment revenue.
But I think what you have to focus in on is if you look at the service revenue component you look at the recurring revenue of FiOS.
So if you look at the recurring revenues of this business 4% plus is an achievable metric but obviously equipment revenue will play a factor in that.
But keep in mind as we start to -- start to go out into the future on the installment sales the installment sales really neutralized themselves over two-year period of time if you think of it that way.
So as we collect more on installment sales we are putting more on but cash flow is starting to catch up with it.
So I would keep that all in mind.
The other thing too is from a cash flow perspective we are looking at alternatives around the receivable as this grows.
So you could see us do things around securitization in the future not that that we are announcing anything today.
But that is a possibility that we’re looking at as we continue to grow that mix on the Edge program.
That helps.
Thanks Fran.
David we can take the next question now? Your next question comes from Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead with your question.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Good morning.
Fran you talked in your summary comments about your focus on non-strategic assets sales.
There has been a lot of talk for about towers for a while we haven’t seen anything yet.
Can you just talk about towers and then access lines datacenters enterprise how you are thinking about some other -- some of these assets and what we should expect going forward? Thanks.
Look I think we’ve talked about a lot of this in the past.
But at this point we are aware of all the rumors in the marketplace.
Naturally we don't have any comment on any specific rumors but we have consistently said that we are always looking at all kinds of strategic transactions and if they are the right transactions and provide value to our shareholders we will execute on those transactions and at that time we will come back to you and announce our strategy around that.
But beyond that there's really nothing else to say on this subject.
So just to say are you -- you expect to make some transactions this year or is it just dependent on the terms? I think what I would say is we continue to look at all strategic availability and if something makes sense then we will execute on that strategic initiative.
Great.
Thank you.
David we can take the next question now? Your next question comes from David Barden of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
So Fran just on your comments about free cash flow kind of governing the competitive intensity in the space could you talk about the assumptions that you're making for your 2015 expectations? Are you assuming that competition kind of continues at its current course and speed? Does it level out at kind of current levels or are you assuming that maybe it even reverses course it would be kind of helpful to get a sense of the backdrop you're making assumptions on? And then second just kind of whilst in the headlines could you opine a little bit on what you think the import of Google kind of doing an MVNO in this space is did you have a chance to talk to them about what their plans are as they kind of where going in the market looking to try to execute on something? It would be helpful to get some color on that? Great.
Thanks.
All right.
So look I think it’s important just to set the stage here.
All the hype around 2014 around price competition and the intensity of the competition and just look at what Verizon delivered during all that period of time.
So we had topline growth of 5.7% we expanded the EBITDA by $1 billion in Wireless we expanded the EBITDA in Wireline of $200 million we had net [phone] [ph] adds which seemed to be the big issue of 1.3 million in this competitive environment and we grow our overall net adds year-over-year by 24%.
So I think the basic point here is is that we will continue to compete and we will continue to compete at a positive profitable value.
I talk -- also it's important as we enter into 2015 with the competition we are also doing a lot of different things.
So number one based on our base as I said in my comments we saw 13 million 3G smartphones and 18.5 million basic phones that we will pursue to upgrade into our 4G LTE network that is more efficient generates more revenue.
Tablets are only 8% of our base and as I said in the past tablets will continue to be a very large piece of our growth into the future.
Tablets are very very good because one they make it more sticky at the account level; two we get a recurring revenue stream albeit lower than a smartphone but the subsidy on that is much reduced.
And then also it also increases the amount of usage and video uptake on the network which is what we’re driving to is the more usage to benefit on the bundles.
The other thing is as you look out to us and directions we’re taking obviously as we stated Internet of Things is going to be a very important category 585 million up 45% year-over-year.
And we don't really disclose it but we have over 15 million connections now of Internet of Things.
We announced the Verizon vehicle as I said you should look at us as launching over-the-top MobileFirst sometime this as Lowell has talked about in the past.
And on the Wireline side we just launched a new router which we think is going to improve both the intake of video into the home.
But it's also very important because it has to sustain the ability of Wireless products within that home.
And as you know when you get four to five devices running on that router today that that can only deliver up to 75 megabits you're really not getting 75 megabits.
So this router will be able to produce significant higher throughput and we believe it’s the fastest in the industry today.
So putting that all in context from a competitive standpoint and what we can deliver the guidance we're giving you is based on all the strategic action that we will be taking in the future.
The other two things I would talk about is if you look at our prepaid base again another positive quarter up 7.5% on ARPU growth and then of course our own reseller base with our own strategic initiatives with that whether you call it a reseller base or MVNO is all positive and growing positively.
So that leads me into the Google discussion.
I guess what I would say right off the bat number one is this is not just another very prime example of the intensity in the competition around this industry.
The availability of the open networks and access to the networks and this is why another reason why this industry does not need to be regulated.
I would also say on this one is if you look at Google they've entered the fiber they’ve done other initiatives.
Their whole purpose is to increase speeds so that people can do more search.
What I would say is we’ll have to wait to see how they execute on the MVNO but listen MVNOs or resellers or people leasing the network from carriers has been around for 15 years.
It's a complex issue.
You have to deal directly with the consumer.
There is a whole infrastructure that's needed to do that.
So I think this is another example of where Google is going to enter the market under a platform basis to do what they want to do.
And it's just another competitor as we look at it.
So I'll leave it at that.
Thanks a lot Fran.
David we can take the next question now please.
Your next question comes from John Hodulik of UBS.
Please go ahead with your question.
Okay.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
As you look at the results of the Wireless quarter churn and the upgrade rate really for standout as having spiked.
And obviously there is couple of drivers I think the competition and the number of iPhones you guys are renewing this quarter.
So is there a way Fran to sort of delineate the two and as you look out to 2015 are these -- do you expect these numbers to remain elevated because of competition or should we expect them to both trend back towards a more normalized level? Thanks.
Yeah thanks John.
So I think this is what we need to look at as we said in the remarks and follow the words carefully is that we will pursue our base.
We will pursue net adds and we will pursue upgrades that are financially beneficial to the company.
So what that means is at a 1.14% churn rate you should take that as we did not go to places where we do not financially want to go to save a customer.
And there's going to be certain customers who leave us for price and we're just not going to compete with that because it doesn’t make financial sense for us to do that.
As far as why upgrades were so high I think you have to go back a little bit and reflect on what we did in the past.
So if you look at 2013 we made a lot of policy changes around upgrades.
It pushed the upgrade view back into ‘14.
So in ‘14 we took probably more upgrades than we generally would have taken because of those policy changes.
But as we came out of the third quarter I said that we had about 3.2 million iPhones in our base that were coming out of contract.
And that was the signal that we were going to aggressively go after those 3.2 million customers and we did.
We are very satisfied with the quality of the upgrades.
So if you look at it from that perspective in the remarks I made look at it on a percentage basis.
78% of our upgrades are what we would call strategic quality upgrades and that means a 3G to 4G or basic to 4G or a high value type customer who delivers a lot of value to us and we appreciate their business and we want to keep them as a customer.
So that’s how you should view this John and I think that with the competition and some of the pricing that’s out there you should think that we are going to have a higher churn rate because some customers we are just going to financially keep.
Sounds good.
Thanks.
David next question please? Your next question comes from Mike Rollins of Citi Investment Research.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just two.
First if you look at the margin guidance that you are providing on a consolidated level and the aspirations to improve the Wireline margins does that mean that Wireless margins are facing some headwinds just as you are processing the higher volume environment coming off the fourth quarter and some of your initiatives that you are planning for 2015? And then secondly Fran if you can give us an update on your video strategy with any more details or perspectives you could share with us on what that product might look like later in the year when you talked about launching it? Thanks.
Thanks Michael.
So on the competitive consolidated margin look I think it's important again that you focus on the words.
We said at least topline 4% growth.
We said that we would have at least a consolidated margin consistent with 2014 but I think you need to put it in perspective that we had an extremely heavy fourth quarter in 2014.
So I would not expect that to repeat in 2015 given the iconic devices that hit and given the level of competition at this point in time versus what we would expect next year.
I think the other important thing too is as you are focusing in on this I think it's important to focus on 2014 earnings per share so we grew at 18%.
I know most of you will subtract out the 10% for the accretion of Vodafone.
So when you look at it the core business in this highly competitive environment grew at 8%.
I would also say that don’t get ahead of yourselves on the Wireline accretion of margin as Lowell and I said before this will be a slow progression of Wireline accretion.
So we grew 80 basis points this year.
We will continue to focus in on topline growth and continue to take out those costs continue our copper to fiber migration efforts and continue to become more efficient of the company.
So I wouldn't read too much into.
We expect Wireline to jump off the charts and Wireless to go down.
On the over-the-top strategy I guess I'm not going to disclose as to too much what we are going to do.
But I think if you look at the environment there is a lot of positive things coming out of the environment.
So if you look at what Dish has done around some of their recent launches look at CBS and their own launch of over-the-top with their own programming.
This just leads us to a path of content owners are willing to open up their content to different models and that's exactly what we are going to execute on it.
And we are working with many content providers to join that model and we will have a lot more to say about that and Marni and I obviously Lowell will talk more about that when we launch our first product come this summer.
Thanks very much.
David next question please? Your next question comes from Brett Feldman of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks.
And I’m going to follow up a little bit on what Mike said and Fran in your response.
Typically when we see telecom operators start ramping content driven models there is a big upfront investment particularly in content costs.
So just wonder if you can maybe just help us think are we going to begin to see any of that spending flow through your P&amp;L this year and is that a component of how you thought about your margin guidance you provided? Thanks.
Well number one on the traditional model of FiOS obviously in our guidance we've included an increase in content cost because every year you have a content cost and you should feature in around consistent with where we were in 2014 around a 3% to 4% content increase cost right now is what we are projecting.
As far as the new model again I'm not going to get a lot into that model.
You should not think about it as a traditional linear TV model.
It's going to be I would think a different type of a model.
So we'll wait till midsummer when we can talk more about that.
But within our plan we do have those content costs.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
David next question please? Your next question comes from Mike McCormack of Jefferies.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys.
Thanks.
I guess Fran following on I guess somewhat related to the Wireless margin story in 2015.
But just trying to get a sense for what your thoughts are on ARPA sort of puts and takes? Obviously you’re talking about some potential I guess save retention tools on your base the competitive landscape.
Do we still think you can get some modest growth on ARPA in '15? And then secondly the CapEx level I think is a bit above what prior commentary had been not dramatically but trying to get a sense for what that is whether it’s Wireline Wireless? I know you and I had spoken about densification back in December I am assuming it’s probably related to that.
Thanks.
Thanks Mike.
So on the VZW margin the follow-up question on around the ARPA I think this becomes a more tricky question because obviously ARPA is around service.
And with the Edge program we are kind of convoluting that now that it’s a tougher metric to get your hands around which is why we are giving out the recurring installment billings to try to get it on an apples-to-apples comparison.
But if you think about that we grew that ARPA by 5.2%.
So look I think given everything that’s going on and given that the fact that I said we would have a topline growth of 4% obviously we believe that we can continue to accrete the ARPA of this business given everything I said about the additional growth things that we’re keen in on just the jump off point that we came into this year.
So the other thing too is if you go back to 2012 the fourth quarter of '12 was very much like this quarter of '14.
We really placed the bet on growth and upgrades and solidifying our base.
In '12 albeit we added lot more smartphone net adds back then but it’s pretty much the same quarter that gives us a great basis to jump off into 2015.
So that’s how I would think about the ARPA as a metric.
On CapEx Mike it goes directly to what you said.
I have been pretty consistent with this in the fact that we will spend more CapEx in the Wireless side and we will continue to curtail CapEx on the Wireline side.
And some of that’s because we are getting to the end of our committed build around FiOS.
Penetration is getting higher.
We are reconnecting homes that we’ve already connected.
So it’s not additional capital that we have to outlay and we are very focused on those what we call connected homes that are not our customers to go aback after them that that is a very good return for us because we’ve already spent the capital to connect that home.
So it’s a lot of combination around that.
But yes this is around densification this is around our projection of growth for the Wireless industry and staying ahead of that.
So again it’s all about encompassing.
So we are looking at a slight increase from where we ended 2014.
And Fran just thinking about the densification are there particular markets where you guys are spending more? Are there pressure points that you look at in '15 is being areas where you would need to sort of not rush and go out and spend but I guess there is a focus? Not really.
I mean it’s pretty consistent with what we did in '14.
I mean obviously your major cities are where you have your biggest densification happening right now.
Because as we launch AWS around the U.S.
and get the coverage map up AWS is really handling most of that outside of the major cities but it’s the major cities that are being densified on a quicker basis.
Okay great.
Thank you guys.
David let’s take the next question.
Your next question comes from Amir Rozwadowski of Barclays.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you very much.
And good morning folks.
Fran it does seem as one of the standouts for you folks has been the ability to reduce costs through operational efficiency.
And I know you touched upon this with some of your questions in your prepared remarks.
But is there any sense that you can give us sort of the scope of opportunities over a multiyear period? I guess the genesis of the question is really we find ourselves in an intensely competitive environment as you had mentioned.
How much opportunity is there for you folks to continue to drive down costs in order to retain this sort of industry leading margin profile on cash generation ability that you guys have built over for the last couple of years? Just a couple of thoughts around that.
Number one is obviously the more and more we convert 3G customers to 4G that affords us the ability to get on a much more efficient network it affords us the ability to reappropriate our spectrum and it affords us to actually start to run down if you will the higher cost network of 3G.
So all of that plays into this.
The other thing is as we said before we have a very cost structure in servicing our customers and you’re going to see some things different of how we approach customers and mainly around getting more around self serve so that we can do more of the handsets.
And we saw over the last two years starting in 2013 into the 2014 that this played a big role and how we take cost out of the Wireless cost structure.
On the Wireline side it’s just continuing to do more of the same.
So we really don’t play up the fact of all the copper to fiber migration.
But this is really starting to pay benefits to us.
And as we’ve said we’ve been doing this for the last three years.
We are now in the position of starting to shutdown central offices which free up real estate for us to monetize and get out of.
It reduces the property tax around this.
So there’s a lot of efficiencies that come from this.
And the other thing is that within the one-time charges you probably picked up a severance accrual.
And in December the Wireline company already has reduced about 2 300 headcount including about 1 300 represented workforce who took an additional incentive for them to voluntary retire.
So we are setting the company up once again to produce a very beneficial efficient cost structure going into 2015.
Thank you very much.
David next question? Your next question comes from Kevin Smithen of Macquarie.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you.
Wanted to follow-up in your comments about not chasing on profitable subs and upgrades.
Does that change if you begin to go negative on phone net adds? Like what is your tolerance for sub losses because in the past that has sort of been a key level where you sort of responded with some retention in offensive marketing? Well I mean Kevin we always have save programs and specific targeting to a specific customer base or a specific segment so that's not going to change.
My point is here is that there are certain customers that will go for the lowest price.
And at that point we’re probably not going to compete on price with those customers and that’s what you saw.
I mean if you look at it for the fourth quarter we added 672 000 net phone adds.
So I think you have to keep it all in focus that what we are gaining.
We are gaining 4G high-value customers and we’re not necessarily losing that 4G high-value customer.
So I think you have to look at it in a holistic point of view but that's really the strategy that we have deployed and we will continue to execute on our strategy.
And just a quick follow-up.
Does your guidance change at all under certain Title II outcomes and what is your current thinking on this given recent government comments? Well that’s a great question because I personally have been misquoted both in the press and in Congress on what I've said.
So this is a good question for me to clear this up.
So first of all this is not of an issue about Internet rules.
It’s about an issue of FCC reclassifying Broadband to Title II service.
And this will absolutely affect us and the industry on long-term investment in our networks.
And that can be seen factually as to what happened in the rest of the world where you have high regulation the networks are not invested in there are not good quality of service networks and that's where this will put us.
I guess I would emphasize also that the approach in whole or in part on Title II is an extreme and risky path that will jeopardize our investment and the development of innovation in Broadband Internet and related services.
It will also tie up the industry in a very uncertain time and cause all types of litigation.
So when I said before I misquoted on the fact that it would not hurt our investment I was talking about 2015.
But if this piece of Title II was to pass I can absolutely assure you it would certainly change the way we've been view our investment in our networks.
The other thing too is as I think it's important to show that this industry on a high-level basis has invested about $50 billion a year in networks and improving the quality of service and open network to everyone.
And that's what the industry belief is that this is an open internet basis.
If we could curtail the investment of this industry it will definitely trickle down to what we would consider middle-class jobs.
And it’s because most of at least for Verizon Wireless a lot of our build are done by thousands of contractors across the United States that will impact those small business and impact their employees.
So from that perspective I guess what we would say Kevin is we would encourage Congress to adopt a legislative solution Congress has the authority to adopt clear rules of the road that will allow policy makers in the industry to move on to more important things.
So I think that summarizes the position about Title II.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
Okay.
Time for one more question David? Your last question comes from Jennifer Fritzsche of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead with your question.
Great.
Thanks Fran.
Just two quick questions if I may just an update on thoughts around the tower sale I assume it’s still part of the plan.
Secondly I just wanted to explore the ARPU question a lot was made of your November 1st price cut? But am I crazy to think you could look at this glass half full because with 84% of your traffic now on LTE and I think you said 66% you are base on LTE phone? Did you see some movement upward with that price change that actually could have offset any sort of downward movement you saw? Thanks a lot.
Thanks Jennifer.
Well on the tower sales look I think we’ve been pretty clear on the remarks here.
We are not going to talk about the rumors anymore until there is something that substantially state.
So at this point I think we’ll just leave it at that.
As far as the price cuts you are absolutely correct Jennifer.
When we look at the provisioning of our base we have seen a significant increase in the amount of customers who are taking our higher data plans if you will that drive more revenue.
And even with those higher plans we still see a large portion of those customers breaking their bundles because of video consumption in the increase in video consumption.
So yes there is an offset here.
It is not all just dilution there is an upgrade of what customers are using and obviously we built the plans around LTE we built the plans around we want customers to use more because that's what will generate incremental revenue for the business and give us a return on the continued investment in our network.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay.
That’s all the time we have for question but before we end the call I’d like to turn it back to Fran.
Thanks Mike.
So at conclusion here I just want to state that Verizon had another strong year of operating and financial results with topline revenue growth and quality earnings and cash generation.
We are very focused on driving growth and profitability.
To that end our execution strategy is around the assets we have in place.
As always we continually look at options for monetizing certain less strategic assets and creating value for our shareholders.
We continue to develop new products and services in the area of video delivery Internet of Things that will drive growth and profitability into 2015 and beyond.
We look forward to a very positive 2015 with confidence in our ability to execute our strategy grow the business profitably and invest for our future.
Thank you all for joining today and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Verizon First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be opened for questions following the presentation.
[Operator Instructions] Today’s conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Michael Stefanski Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Thanks David.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
This is Mike Stefanski and I am here with our Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
As a reminder our earnings release financial and operating information the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website.
Replays and a transcript of this call will also be made available on our website.
Before we get started I would like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement on Slide 2.
Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties.
Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon’s filings with the SEC which are available on our website.
This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in the financial materials we have posted to our website.
The quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.
Before Fran goes through our results I would like to highlight a few items related to our earnings.
GAAP reported earnings were $1.02 per share.
And there were no special items of a non-operational nature.
This compares with adjusted earnings of $0.84 per share in the first quarter of 2014 an increase of 21.4%.
As a reminder the adjusted EPS of $0.84 last year did not reflect a 100% ownership of wireless for the full quarter since the Vodafone transaction closed on February 21 2014.
As we indicated a year ago on a non-GAAP illustrative basis adjusted earnings for the first quarter of 2014 would have been $0.91 per share if we assumed 100% wireless ownership for the full quarter.
On this more comparable basis growth in the first quarter earnings per share was 12.1%.
I would also like to make a few points about our wireline segment reporting.
Our wireline results include the operations we are selling to Frontier until the transaction closes which is targeted for the first half of 2016.
Our consolidated balance sheet reflects the assets and liabilities associated with those operations as being held for sale.
This is important because accounting rules require that depreciation expense not be recorded on assets held for sale.
Therefore wireline depreciation expense will be lower in 2015 due to the classification of these assets.
The first quarter included a $146 million pre-tax benefit which equates to roughly $0.02 per share.
Going forward until closing the full quarter benefit will be approximately $200 million pre-tax or $0.03 per share.
With that I will now turn the call over to Fran.
Thanks Mike.
Good morning everyone.
We are off to a strong start in 2015 with an eventful first few months behind us.
We continue to execute well on our strategy of investing in networks and platforms and positioning the business for future growth.
We delivered very strong financial and operating results in the first quarter with strong cash generation.
To review our active start to the year we were successful in the AWS-3 spectrum auction improving our mid-band spectrum position while maintaining sound financial discipline.
As we stated on our conference call in mid-February we are very pleased with the licenses we won and are confident that they will enable us to execute efficiently on our network strategy of adding capacity through a combination of spectrum deployment and small cell technology.
Our early experiences with small cell deployments have been very favorable and we believe that the industry is making good progress on standards for utilizing unlicensed spectrum with LTE which is already being tested in our vendor labs.
We also executed several value creating transactions that underline our commitment to extend our industry leadership in the markets we serve by being strategically focused and returning value to shareholders.
We successfully monetized our tower portfolio in a $5 billion transaction with American Tower which closed at the end of the first quarter.
We signed a definitive agreement to sell our wireline properties in Florida Texas and California to Frontier for $10.5 billion.
And we implemented a $5 billion accelerated share repurchase program which resulted in an immediate reduction of about 86 million shares in mid-February.
Final settlement of this transaction including delivery of the remaining shares that we expect to receive is scheduled to occur in the second quarter.
Collectively these transactions provide immediate value for shareholders.
Now let’s move on to our primary focus which is executing our day to day strategy for the benefit of our customers and shareholders.
Our first quarter results reflect strong top and bottom line performance.
We posted solid revenue growth high quality earnings growth of 12% and generated substantial free cash flow.
In wireless we had a solid quarter of quality connections growth and profitability.
We had 565 000 retail postpaid net adds in a seasonally low volume quarter.
Total wireless revenue grew 6.9% and EBITDA was up 6.6%.
As expected our wireless EBITDA margin returned to more historical levels.
In wireline consumer revenues grew 4% and we continued to increase our FiOS penetration with quality customer growth.
Total wireline revenue was impacted by foreign exchange pressure but our continued focus on productivity improvements and operating efficiency resulted in EBITDA margin expansion.
Now let’s get into the first quarter performance in more detail starting with our consolidated results on Slide 4.
Total operating revenue grew 3.8% in the first quarter continuing our consistent top line growth trend.
If we excluded the first quarter 2014 revenues from the public sector business we sold the comparable growth rate would have been 4.2%.
Our consolidated revenue growth continues to be driven by wireless and FiOS.
New revenue streams from the Internet of Things and telematics continue to emerge and grow.
In the first quarter these revenues totaled approximately $150 million an increase of 25%.
We continue to build upon our Internet of Things and video platforms.
In particular innovation within the transportation industry presents a great opportunity for us.
Through Verizon telematics we are already providing a platform of manufacturer aftermarket and fleet services through two-way broadband connectivity to vehicle.
Additionally we will be launching Verizon Vehicle our direct to consumer aftermarket product which modernizes traditional roadside assistance and enhances driver safety and convenience.
In terms of video we are on track to launch our mobile first OTT video product this summer and we have already announced some initial content partners.
We are excited about these new growth opportunities which you will hear more about during the year.
In addition to top line growth we continue to focus on process and operating efficiencies and improving our cost structure.
Consolidated EBITDA totaled $11.9 billion in the quarter up 5.8% and our EBITDA margin expanded by 60 basis points on an adjusted basis to 37.4%.
As Mike indicated we reported $1.02 in earnings per share in the quarter for a comparable growth rate of about 12%.
So we are off to a strong start from an earnings perspective.
Let’s turn now to cash flows and the balance sheet on Slide 5.
Consistent with capital allocation model we have been executing in the last several years our priorities are to invest in our networks through capital spending and spectrum acquisitions return value to shareholders and maintain a strong balance sheet.
Our strong cash flows enable us to execute on this investment strategy pay competitive dividends and de-lever the balance sheet.
The monetization of our tower portfolio enabled us to execute the $5 billion accelerated share repurchase program.
In the first quarter cash flows from operations totaled $10.2 billion.
This included approximately $2.4 billion related to the tower monetization transaction which is non-recurring.
The remaining portion of the $5 billion of cash proceeds is reflected in the financing activities section of the cash flow statement.
We also securitized the portion of our wireless equipment installment receivables and received $1.3 billion in cash proceeds during the quarter.
Free cash flow excluding the tower proceeds totaled about $4.2 billion.
Capital expenditures were $3.7 billion in the quarter.
Although spending was slightly lower in the first quarter we expect 2015 capital expenditures to be within our stated range of $17.5 billion to $18 billion.
In wireless we continue investing to proactively stay ahead of demand.
In the first quarter wireless CapEx totaled $2.4 billion.
As we have previously stated our capital investments are focused on adding capacity to optimize our 4G LTE network primarily by increasing network density.
We are deploying existing AWS spectrum in addition to utilizing small cell technology in building solutions and distributed antenna systems.
We are also beginning to refarm our 1900 PCS spectrum from 3G EVDO to 4G LTE in select markets.
Despite what others claim about certain network metrics we are consistently acknowledged as the overall 4G LTE network performance leader in national studies conducted by widely recognized third-party organizations.
We lead in what matters most to customers coverage and consistent performance and continue to be the largest and most reliable 4G LTE network in the nation.
Our balance sheet remains strong and we continue to have the financial flexibility to grow the business and pursue our strategic goals.
Our financial de-leveraging plan had always assumed the purchase of new spectrum.
In the first quarter we paid the remaining balance of $9.5 billion for the AWS-3 licenses we won in the auction.
During the past six months we have been very active in the debt capital markets managing our maturities and taking advantage of the interest rate environment.
We ended the quarter with $113.4 billion of gross debt net debt of $109 billion and a ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA of 2.5 times.
We are on track with the plans to de-lever and remain committed to returning to our pre-Vodafone transaction credit rating profile in the 2018 to 2019 timeframe.
Now let’s move into a review of the segments starting with wireless on Slide 6.
Our wireless strategy is to provide the best customer experience while continuing to invest in our network to stay ahead of accelerating demand and higher customer usage.
Wireless revenue growth profitability and cash flows continue to be driven by our high-quality retail postpaid customer base.
Total wireless operating revenues were $22.3 billion in the first quarter up 6.9%.
Total service revenue of $17.9 billion declined 0.4%.
Keep in mind that lower service revenue from Edge customers have shifted to equipment revenue.
Service revenue plus Edge installment billings were up 3.1%.
During the quarter customer demand for our Edge equipment installment plan continued to increase.
The percentage of phone activations on the Edge program was about 39% compared with about 25% in the fourth quarter.
We expect the percentage of phone activations on Edge to increase in the second quarter as we are currently running near 50%.
Edge phone activations totaled $3.4 million in the quarter and we now have an Edge phone base of $10 million representing 11.7% of our postpaid phone base.
In terms of profitability we generated $10 billion of EBITDA in the quarter an increase of 6.6%.
Our EBITDA service margin increased to 55.8% up 370 basis points year-over-year.
As customer acceptance of equipment installment plans evolves and the percentage of Edge adoption increases equipment revenue is increasing.
Therefore you should look at EBIT margin on total wireless revenue rather than wireless service revenue.
On this basis our EBITDA margin on total wireless revenue was 44.8% in the quarter which was similar to a year ago.
Now let’s turn to Slide 7 and take a closer look at wireless connections growth.
We ended the quarter with $108.6 million total retail connections.
Our industry-leading postpaid connections base grew 5.5% to $102.6 million and our prepaid connections totaled $5.9 million.
As expected first quarter seasonality resulted in lower volumes.
Postpaid gross additions were $3.7 million up 2.3% compared to a year ago.
A majority of the gross adds were 4G smartphones and tablets.
Retail postpaid churn improved both sequentially and year-over-year coming in at 1.03% for the quarter.
We are maintaining a disciplined approach with a focus on retaining high value customers.
We are seeing good results with our postpaid smartphone churn less than 0.9% as compared to our basic phone churns at more than 1.2% in the quarter.
Our retail postpaid net additions of 565 000 were up 4.8%.
The quality of the net adds was very good.
We added 621 000 new 4G smartphones and total net smartphones adds were 247 000 in the quarter.
We also added 820 000 new 4G tablets.
Postpaid phone net adds were a negative 138 000 as the smartphone adds were more than offset by a net decline of 385 000 basic phones.
Additionally net prepaid devices declined by 188 000 in the quarter.
Let’s now take a look at 4G device activations and upgrades on Slide 8.
Total postpaid device activations totaled 10.3 million in the quarter up 4.4%.
About 84% of these activations were phones and the rest were mainly tablets.
We ended the quarter with 68.7 million smartphones in total about 85% of which were 4G.
Our smartphone penetration increased to approximately 80% of total phones.
4G devices now comprised approximately 70% of our retail postpaid connection space.
About 86% of total data traffic is on the 4G LTE network.
As you would expect growth in 4G device adoption continued to drive increased data and video usage.
Within More Everything accounts average data usage continues to rise up 54% year-over-year.
This is beneficial to us because increasing consumption of content will ultimately drive higher revenue with a lower cost to serve due to the efficiency of our LTE network.
In terms of our upgrade rate about 6.5% of our retail postpaid base upgraded to a new device in the first quarter.
This represents a sharp sequential decline in the percentage of customers upgrading which was expected due to seasonality and the extraordinary volumes we experienced in the fourth quarter.
We continue to have an opportunity to upgrade our basic phone and 3G smartphone customers to 4G devices.
At the end of the quarter we had roughly 17 million basic phones and about 11 million 3G smartphones remaining in our postpaid connection space.
We also have a profitable growth opportunity with tablets.
We ended the quarter with about 8.8 million tablets in our postpaid connection space so overall penetration is still under 10%.
Tablets provide us a good value through increased data consumption and lower churn at the account level.
Let’s move next to our Wireline segment starting with the review of our consumer and mass markets revenue performance on Slide 9.
In the consumer business we continue to see positive revenue trends driven by FiOS.
In the first quarter consumer revenues were up 4% representing 11th consecutive quarter of 4% or better growth.
Mass markets which include small business grew 2.9%.
FiOS now represents 78% of consumer revenue.
In the first quarter FiOS consumer revenue grew 9.8% driven by customer growth increased penetration of our Quantum products and some pricing actions.
Our FiOS Quantum broadband service is scaling well and has a higher profitability contribution.
At the end of the quarter 62% of our consumer FiOS Internet customers subscribe to a data speeds of 50 megabits per second or higher.
We are seeing the highest rate of growth in the 75 megabits speed tier.
We are just over 20% of our consumer FiOS customers currently subscribe.
We had a good quarter of FiOS customer growth.
In broadband we added 133 000 net FiOS customers and now have a total of 6.7 million FiOS Internet subscribers which is 41.5% penetration.
Overall net broadband subscribers increased by 41 000 in the quarter.
In FiOS video we added 90 000 net customers in the quarter and now have a total of 5.7 million FiOS video subscribers which represents 36% penetration.
One of the ways we strive to improve the customer value proposition is by creating new and innovative services on our FiOS platform.
Last year we introduced quantum TV Speed Match and our Quantum Gateway router.
As part of the evolution of customer choice for video consumption we just introduced FiOS Custom TV which have been the last few days.
The Custom TV option is a creative approach to the changing landscape allowing customers to better choose the type of content they want to watch.
Customers will get a base package of pre-selected and local broadcast channels and choose at least two channel packs out of seven.
This new option coupled with our traditional programming packages provides more choice more control and more value in an easy self-serve manner.
In terms of our ongoing network evolution initiative we converted about 47 000 Copper customers in the quarter.
For the year we plan to convert a total of 200 000 Copper customers to fiber.
We are also in the process of decommissioning 10 central offices.
Post conversion we are seeing improvements in customer satisfaction and a lower cost to serve.
These conversions also provide a long-term opportunity for customers to purchase FiOS services from us.
Our focus in 2015 will be to continue adding quality customers driving higher penetration in existing markets and generating profitable growth.
Residential broadband and video are highly competitive markets and we will be disciplined and rationale in our approach to customer acquisition.
With that let’s turn to Slide 10 and cover enterprise and wholesale as well as the wireline segment in total.
In the enterprise space we continue work through secular and economic challenges.
In the first quarter global enterprise revenue declined 6%.
Excluding foreign exchange pressure the revenue decline would have been more in line with trends we experienced in the second half of 2014.
The overall story is unchanged as declines in legacy transport revenue and CPE continue to outweigh growth in newer and more strategic applications which are smaller in scale.
Revenue from services in the IP layer has been impacted by competitive price compression which is offsetting growth in applications and services.
In our global wholesale business revenues declined 3.7% in the first quarter.
Healthy demand for Ethernet services continues but revenue declines from price compression technology migration and other secular challenges more than offset this growth.
We also had a favorable which improved revenue this quarter and which will not reoccur.
Total operating revenues for the entire wireline segment were down 2% which included the FX pressure.
In terms of profitability the EBITDA margin was 22.7% in the quarter up 20 basis points.
Our path to a stronger and more profitable wireline business includes driving further FiOS penetration and continued improvements in operating and capital efficiency.
On the enterprise business side we are changing the revenue mix to higher growth areas like cloud security and professional services.
In terms of our cost structure we are realizing a number of noteworthy process improvements and efficiency gains utilizing our Verizon’s Lean Six Sigma principles.
However we are far from satisfied and we will continue working to improve our overall cost structure.
Let’s move next to our summary slide.
We are off to a strong start to 2015.
From a strategic standpoint we were successful in the spectrum auction executed a tower portfolio monetization and signed a definitive agreement to sell certain wireline properties.
At the same time we return value to shareholders with an accelerated share repurchase program.
We also delivered strong operating and financial performance with 12% growth in earnings per share on an adjusted basis.
Our first quarter results demonstrate that we are in a strong market position with a proven ability to compete effectively and execute our strategy.
Our high-quality customer base and superior networks are the hallmark of our brand and provide the fundamental strength upon which we will build our competitive advantage.
We are on track to achieve our targets of at least 4% consolidated revenue growth sustained profitability and capital spending in the range of $17.5 billion to $18 billion in 2015.
Consolidated EBITDA grew by 5.8% and our EBITDA margin expanded to 37.4%.
In addition to our ability to deliver strong financial metrics we are very focused on developing new products and services in the Internet of Things and video.
We are excited about the potential for revenues from these new products and services to grow quickly and become more meaningful in the future.
Our de-leveraging plans are on track.
And we remain committed to getting back to our pre-Vodafone transaction credit rating profile in the 2018 to 2019 timeframe.
With that I will turn the call back to Mike so that we can get to your questions.
Thank you Fran.
David we are now ready to take questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
Good morning Fran.
So you had a couple of management changes in the first quarter John Stratton taking over as President of Operations and combining the IT and network units can you give us a little bit of color of any sort of implications any strategies or anything that has happened as a result of that? Thanks.
Sure.
Thanks Simon.
So as we have moved into our next space as well has consolidated the operational performance under John.
This gives us a better breadth of consolidation if you will post the Vodafone acquisition.
And if you go back to when we did the acquisition we stated that there were some internal valves that could be broken down and we could become more efficient.
And with the establishment of Marni Walden’s organization around new products and services this is where we are get into the Internet of Things and over the top video she runs Verizon digital media services and some of the other incubation companies we have.
So the focus is running the day-to-day operations out of John’s organization and streamlining implementing Verizon lean six sigma and driving those cost benefits and efficiencies that we are looking for.
With Marni’s organization it’s creating the new products and services that we can launch to grow the future of the businesses.
And then with Roger and the consolidation of the network and the IT organization it just makes sense as we move into more software developed network areas and more the network is driven out of data centers it makes sense that Roger would take over the entire thing from an efficiency and consistency of management perspective.
So I think what you are seeing here is more well organized within the company more cohesiveness and more direct relationship between growing revenue and cost reduction.
Okay great.
So no real changes in the sort of cost trajectory or the CapEx trajectory? Well CapEx we have given you guidance of $17.5 billion to $18 billion.
And right now we are staying on track with that.
You should see that ramp up through the rest of the year and obviously coming out of the auction we added $500 million to that to densify and build out and that takes a little bit of queuing up time so you will see that more in the back end of the year.
And as far as cost reductions you have seen some of the measures we took at the end of the fourth quarter.
If you look at wireline alone wireline is down over 5 400 people from the beginning of last year.
So continuing to streamline that business and become more efficient.
And for wireless as John has taken over we are starting to see some streamlining around customer service and some the other things that we have talked about in the past.
So I wouldn’t downplay the cost reductions that we will realize in the future here.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
Okay David.
Let’s take the next question please.
One moment please.
Your next question comes from David Barden of Bank of America.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
Maybe just two if I could Fran on the quarter I think the two numbers that really stood out to people were number one the really low SG&amp;A in wireless I think going back for a model maybe the lowest percentage of wireless revenue we have ever seen if you can kind of step us through how we got there from last quarter and what the outlook for that would be it would be huge.
And then the second big number was really the ARPA number which I think stepped down further than people thought that could have been related to EIP or it could have been pricing environment in the market or retention efforts that you are executing on could you kind of give us the picture for how we got to where we got in ARPA and kind of what we can think about that for the rest of the year? Thanks.
Thanks David.
Just a clarification here on the wireless revenue you are talking about service revenue? I was actually talking about total revenue as a percentage for SG&amp;A but either way was a really low number? Okay yes.
So look I mean I think that if you look at the service revenue and ARPA it all goes to the same issue which is as we start to elevate Edge and we start to increase the take rate of Edge and customers move you are shifting revenue out of service and into equipment.
So you are going to continue to see a decline in service revenue.
You are going to continue to see a decline in ARPA but I think what I would center around is what we said in the script which was we grew overall revenue by 6.9%.
And also if you look at the EBITDA margin which kind of normalizes out the Edge impact I mean not 100% of it but if you look at a dollar of revenue and a dollar of cost there is zero margin.
So if you look at total revenue 44.8% whereas last year at 44.9%.
So it’s a very consistent profitability measure.
The other thing too is if you look at the Edge benefits you are getting benefits from both lower commissions and so forth so that is also impacting the SG&amp;A line because you are indirect before if you think about how that works.
We were refunding the indirect through a commission payment for the subsidy of the handset that all goes away.
So you are going to see a decline in the commission expense line which is impacting the SG&amp;A line.
But overall if you look at the profitability of wireless and I think this is important if you look at the service margin of 55.8% if you were to normalize out Edge the wireless service margin would still have been in that over 50%.
So the profitability of wireless continues to be extremely strong.
And again I would go back to what Simon brought up.
I would not discount all of the cost reductions and efficiencies that we are creating in the environment.
So this is a good baseline for kind of extrapolating the rest of the year? Well I mean from a rest of a year standpoint I think that the outlook is strong.
I think that obviously as Edge continues to escalate you are going to get some benefit there.
We highlighted the depreciation benefit.
But I think as far as wireless goes I think we need to be careful here a little bit because January normally is a slow promotional slow seasonal quarter.
As you go into the second quarter and you enter into Mother’s Day and Father’s Day I would expect that the promotional activity and competitive is going to heat up here.
So that will offset some of the benefits that you are going to see.
So look I think that service revenue and ARPA will continue to decline as the Edge rate takes up but it’s really about overall revenue growth and the profitability of the business and we feel good about that.
Perfect.
Thanks Fran.
Okay thank you.
David next question please.
Your next question comes from Phil Cusick of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys.
Thanks.
I guess first if I can follow-up Fran on the Edge stuff can you help us think about the high-end of the Edge mix given the distribution of where you sell this? What portion of your sales are in channels that don’t have access to the Edge program? Well all of our channels have access to the Edge program but obviously within our store channel it is very very heavily weighted towards Edge at this point.
We are doing very little subsidy model selling out of the store channel and it’s because where the market has moved.
I mean when your entire competitive environment is just advertising and promoting service pricing and ignoring the whole equipment side we have to follow that in order to be competitive.
So the store channel by far is very heavily weighted towards Edge.
Indirect is starting to come up as time goes but also keep in mind the business channel and our enterprise channel are not really taking the Edge product.
So if you are asking me we will get to 100% the answer is no.
I can’t tell you exactly what that percent will be but we do see that second quarter will probably be in the neighborhood of a 50% take rate.
Okay.
And then second I like the Custom TV launch this morning there is some controversy around ESPN and Disney can I ask do you guys have explicit permission for this and have Disney and other pushed back since Friday to you or is this just a storm in the media? Thanks.
Well I think the right way to answer this without getting into too public about our contractual situations.
Look this is a product that the consumer wants.
It’s all about consumer choice.
I mean if you look at the TV bundles today most people only on average watch 17 channels.
So this is a way to give consumers what they want on a choice basis.
And we believe that we are allowed to offer these packages under our existing contracts.
So we will leave it at that.
Thanks Fran.
David next question please.
Your next question comes from Mike Rollins of Citigroup.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks.
Just a couple of follow-ups and then a question.
The follow-ups is first can you just give us the ending net receivable balance for the installment phones and what that was last quarter? And then are you allowing for installment plans early migration on them is that something you are using to get the take rate of Edge up? And then just a broader question I had if I could is if you could just address the larger strategy for wireline as you went through a quarter of monetizing some additional or announcing the monetization of some additional assets what’s your thoughts longer term for your wireline business? Thanks.
Thanks Mike.
So on the accounts receivable I am not going to get too much detail here on this call but if you look at the fourth quarter to the first quarter with the securitization that we did it’s relatively flat.
On early migration on Edge customers obviously we have an Edge up feature but you must pay 75% of the phone off.
So if you decide to pay 75% of your balance off you can upgrade at any point in time you want.
And we do have customers who are taking that and edging up but there is no “early migration” other than what’s instituted in the price plan.
On the wireline strategy look I mean if you look at the three properties that we announced to sell Florida Texas and California they were more or less islands to us.
They were some of the first properties we build out with FiOS.
They are heavily penetrated properties.
But the majority of those properties are still copper.
And as we look at that strategically when we laid this out it just made sense based on the offer that Frontier had in front of us to actually sell those properties.
So I wouldn’t read too much into it other than the fact that they were not strategic properties because they were islands but if you look at the rest of our wireline footprint from DC all the way up through Boston it’s very contiguous.
It’s highly populated.
We have almost 20 million homes passed now with FiOS.
So it’s extremely viable for us to continue to penetrate these properties.
And if you look at the penetration rates New York is still the lowest penetrated market that we have and still has the highest growth opportunity that we have.
So we are holding on to some of the markets that we believe are contiguous.
You will see more and more with wireless and wireline combined under John’s leadership.
So there is more that we can do strategically with the footprint that we have and again it just made financial sense to return that back to our shareholder and bring that cash into de-lever the balance sheet.
So that’s really there all is to it Michael.
Thanks very much.
Okay next question please.
Your next question comes from Brett Feldman of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks for taking the question.
The smartphone metrics continue to be really impressive.
But as you note in the presentation about 20% of your subs still have feature phones so I was wondering if you could just walk us through what is the strategy for upgrading and retain those subs particularly because it seems that your competitors are continually targeting that base? And should it be reasonable to think that at this point in the upgrade process we might continue to see some modest degree of net losses in the phone base whereas what we saw in the first quarter is just a seasonal factor? Thanks Brett.
Well I guess a couple of things here.
So we still have 17 million basic and 11 million 3G phones and coming out of the fourth quarter you heard me say that we were going to protect our base.
And that was a key ingredient going into the first quarter.
And I think with the churn rate you have seen if you look at the basic phone losses on a year-over-year basis we actually improve that by over 400 000.
So last year we had almost doubled the number of basic phone loss customers than we did this year.
And as you notice we came out with some strong promotional pricing that was targeted towards the basic phone customer and the 3G customer.
Now having said all that look the environment is is that there if you look at prepaid on a standalone basis our prepaid retail pricing is slightly at a premium to some of the other competitors’ postpaid pricing.
So we are in a competitive pricing standpoint.
And as I said coming out of the fourth quarter we will not – we have to be rationale and we will not chase every customer but we are making every effort to maintain our base and keep our customers and upgrade them into a price plan that’s fitting for them.
And we made improvement in that.
But I will tell you we still have some more improvement to do but we are not satisfied with any losses.
But then again we will not chase every add either based on just cheap price.
So I think that’s the balanced equation that we showed in the first quarter.
And just a quick follow-up I believe in the past you said some of the small offices you have seen have generally been customers that were not as profitable is that still the case? Well I think what I said was if it’s not quite I wouldn’t put it in a profitability perspective but what I would say is if it’s customer who is just price sensitive and does not care about the quality of the network or is sufficient with just paying a lower price then that’s probably a customer we are not going to be able to keep on the Verizon wireless network.
Thanks for taking the question.
David next question please.
Your next question comes from Mike McCormack of Jefferies.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys.
Thanks.
Fran maybe if you could just comment regarding subscriber quality maybe add net add quality or base quality and just thinking about the credit scores within the base the prime mix and obviously we are seeing a lot of prepaid migration into postpaid is what you guys are seeing with respect to that? And as a follow-up just a comment if you would on the appetite for additional factoring how we should be firming that for the full year? Thanks.
Sure.
So on the securitization piece of the business yes you should anticipate that this will be an ongoing program on a quarterly basis going forward.
As far as the quality of our base I think the quality of our base speaks for itself.
We have not made any credit policy changes.
We have a very strong quality base but there are a certain segment of our customers as I just discussed around basic where we are trying to bring them up into a price plan that’s meaningful for them.
But if you look at – again if you look at the lay of the land around price plans as I said our prepaid pricing is a little bit of a premium to some other postpaid pricing in the marketplace.
And as you saw this quarter we lost 188 000 prepaid retail customers.
I can’t answer specifically where they went but I would say that they probably made a choice to go to a price – postpaid price plan because it’s actually slightly lower on some competitors than it is with us on prepaid.
So I can’t factually state that but I think that’s some of the migration but also I would also say that on the reseller side which we don’t talk much about we had a very strong growth through our TracFone relationship over 400 000 some net adds this quarter.
So it could have been a migration from retail to wholesale but I do think there is a migration from the prepaid base into some other postpaid bases and I think others will have to talk to that but we are not seeing a lot of that within our base.
And Fran just how do you frame the credit risk on these installment plans I mean I am assuming you guys obviously have pretty tight credit standards but if you see this as a risk for you guys on the industry just I mean more and more loans out there for Apple phones? Well sure I mean obviously it adds risk to the balance sheet because you are putting up a very large receivable now before it was just service revenue that you are risk add.
And if you look at the economics of service revenue it really is what’s the economic loss to the company really comes down to what’s the actual economic loss of providing the service to the customer.
It’s not actually the retail service revenue that’s the loss.
So obviously the cost of service is minimal.
So the loss was a lot less.
Now you are actually putting up a receivable that has a dollar for dollar loss if the customer does not pay.
And again we are very comfortable with the credit models we use.
As I said we really haven’t changed our credit and we have a very strong credit base.
So I am not – at this point I don’t see any trends that will be concerning me on the outstanding receivable at this point.
Great.
Thanks Fran.
David next question please.
Your next question comes from John Hodulik of UBS.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey thanks.
Two quick ones.
First following up on the video tiering Fran could you talk a little bit about maybe sort of expected sort of penetration that you expect with these new plans and maybe compare the profitability of these new services to sort of traditional TV subscriptions? And then from Edge standpoint you have guided to flat consolidated margins for the year but as you see the higher take rate of Edge and first of all where that can go for the year could that drive better wireless margin trends and lead to better overall consolidated margins for the company? Thanks.
Thanks John.
So on the video tiers look I think it’s way way too early to start talking about what the take rate is or where the profitability.
So we will leave that until we get some trending behind us.
Obviously we have done this because of consumer benefit give the consumer a better choice.
So let’s see what happens here as we go in and we can address that later.
On the EBITDA margins look I mean I am kind of reiterating our guidance that we came out of the fourth quarter from an outlook perspective.
And I think that you have to be cognizant of the fact that this is the first quarter of the year.
If you look at last year’s trending as we said coming out of the Vodafone transaction our earnings profile would be more consistent across the quarters.
We wouldn’t be as bumpy as we had been in the past.
I think that you have to look at the whole thing in retrospect.
And also the other thing is I would not get focused in on the service margins side and as I said I would really prefer as to look at the total margin – total revenue and the EBITDA margin.
And if you saw the EBITDA margin was very very strong for wirelesses this quarter.
And that kind of normalizes out a little bit of what the Edge take rate is.
And then again I also can’t speak to what we are in for from a competitive standpoint on additional pricing moves through the year.
So I am kind of reserving on that side of the equation as well from an outlook perspective.
So on outlook and profitability I would say reiterating what we said in the fourth quarter and more consistent earnings profile moving forward.
So I think that’s where we will leave it.
Great.
Thanks Fran.
David another question please.
Your next question comes from Amir Rozwadowski of Barclays.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you very much and good morning Fran and Mike.
Good morning Amir.
Good morning.
You folks highlighted that 4G devices now constitute approximately 70% of the retail postpaid connections and that traffic or LTE network handles about 86% of the total wireless data traffic for the quarter given these dynamics what seems to be a rapid adoption of LTE technology I was wondering if you could give us an update on your ability to reform spectrum in order to take advantage of the network efficiency opportunities.
Fran you had mentioned that they are continued cost reduction opportunities that your scale provides you and any color there would be helpful? Good.
Thanks Amir.
Yes.
So I think that this is all point to where the future growth of the business comes from.
I mean there is not many businesses where consumers want to consume more and more and if you look at it 86% of the usage is on the LTE network.
And if you look at our More Everything accounts they are up 54% in consumption year-over-year.
So obviously consumers are willing to consume the content on their wireless devices which is why we were so optimistic around Internet of Things and of course over the top mobile.
Now as you start to look at the densification and the efficiency of the network as I said in my prepared remarks we are already starting to reap on the 1 900 PCS licenses in certain markets and we still have a long way to go there.
Also we are looking at as I said the LTE unlicensed which is a really good fit with the licensed LTE piece which will give us a lot more download capability in a managed network comparability.
So there is a lot that we can still do around our spectrum and efficiency and obviously with the LTE network as you have seen with 86% of that traffic running on it with a 54% overall year-over-year increase the cost structure of the business really has not changed because the ability to deliver this on a very cost efficient network is there.
So I would just continue to say that as we continue to grow on the consumption model what we did in the AWS spectrum in buying the licenses and our plan to build out and densify I think we are in a very good financial position to execute on that in a very financially disciplined manner and continue to generate the returns that are expected of us.
Great.
And then one quick follow-up if I may you folks have been consistent noting that de-leveraging the balance sheet is the priority for you.
And as you mentioned it seems as though the approach you took to the AWS-3 bidding process seems to reflects that strategy how should we think about your ability or resources available to pursue other assets in the market specifically I am thinking about the potential broadcast spectrum auction or any material third party portfolios if they were to come to market? I think look I mean we are very focused on our balance sheet and we are committed to de-lever and as we said coming out of the Vodafone transaction we had four priorities.
One was to continue to invest in our networks and platforms which we are to buy spectrum which we did to have a competitive dividend payout which we are and to de-lever the balance sheet.
And we will continue to do all that.
As far as any type of strategic acquisitions or additional spectrum we are probably alluding to the incentive auction and I think that we are just going to have to wait to see what the rules are before we decide how we are going to execute on or around the incentive auction.
So I think that still a little bit ways out before we can make that decision.
But look we have positioned the balance sheet to be able to execute on the strategies that we need to execute on in order to deliver the future growth and earnings of the business.
And I think we are in a very very sound position to do that.
Great.
Thank you very much for the color.
David next question please.
Your next question comes from Jennifer Fritzsche of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Hi Fran.
Thank you for taking the question.
I wanted to ask about over the top video service offering I know we are going to see a more formal unveiling this summer but can you just discuss kind of the news floor what we should be honing? And two as you go into that announcement I mean I assume it’s more content announcements? And then on the packages you announced last week should we consider this separate from the OTP or kind of a precursor of this integrated wireline – wireless model? Okay.
So first on over-the-top video as we have talked before you see us announcing some of the content deals that are in this but it goes back to what I said before this is all around having the consumer consume more content on their wireless handset through the Verizon wireless network.
And we know that consumers want one content.
We know what the viewership is and this is appealing to mobile content and let’s not confuse that with linear TV content.
So I would not read into the Custom TV package as a precursor to the over-the-top video it’s not.
These are two very distinct ecosystems.
As far as the monetization model when you think about the monetization there is many different avenues we can do on this.
There could be premium subscriptions.
There could be pay-per-views using the multicast technology.
There can be advertising model so that the consumer does not pay for the content consumption or as others would call sponsored data.
So I think there is lot of models that we can use and I hate to say this but let’s wait until Marni and team are ready to make the big splash here this summer and then we can have more discussion around what it means.
Great.
Thank you very much.
David we have time for one more question if we can take the last question please.
Your last question today comes from Tim Horan of Oppenheimer.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks guys.
Fran the wireless data growth is fairly incredible at this size and base.
Do you think you have pricing power for wireless data to your competitors aren’t really charging all that much for? Do you think that will change in the industry as maybe the networks get filled up your thoughts? Thanks.
Well I think this is the great lead way into the over-the-top mobile.
And it’s developing more ecosystems around monetizing the consumption that happens on the network.
Obviously we are in a period of time where we see the service pricing dilution because of the installments out.
And I think that will continue.
And of course we are increasing bundles so more data for the same price but this is no different Tim than what we saw on the voice world way back where we had a price and then all of a sudden everybody started seeing dilution on the minute per minute price because more minutes were being given away in the bundle and we saw a little bit of access accretion but overall pricing was coming down.
And then all of a sudden the usage tracks started up again and revenue took a turn.
And I think that’s the piece that we are in with – right now with the data world but the key to this is to develop these other ecosystems to create more monetization around customer usage whether that’s premium subscription pay-per-view or advertising models.
And that’s really what we are concentrating on.
Thank you.
David thank you.
Before we end the call I would like to turn it back to Fran for a few closing remarks.
Thanks Mike.
Thanks for everybody for joining Verizon this morning.
We are absolutely off to a good start to the year.
We stated coming out of the fourth quarter that we return to historical margin in wireless and we delivered on that.
We also stated that we would continue to improve the profitability of our wireline business and we delivered on that.
We had a good growth quarter.
We had strong profits and strong cash flows.
We look forward to a very positive 2015 and we look very hopeful and confident in our ability to execute on our strategy grow the business profitably and invest for the future.
Thanks everyone for joining us today.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon conference services.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Verizon Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Michael Stefanski Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Thanks Marley.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
This is Mike Stefanski and I'm here with our Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
As a reminder our earnings release financial and operating information the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website.
A replay and a transcript of this call will also be made available on our website.
Before we get started I'd like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement on slide two.
Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties.
Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC which are available on our website.
This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in the financial materials we have posted to our website.
The quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.
Before Fran goes through our results I'd like to highlight a few items.
GAAP reported earnings for the quarter were $1.04 per share compared to $1.01 per share in the second quarter of last year.
There were no special items of a nonoperational nature in the second quarter of this year.
The second quarter of last year included $0.10 per share from a gain on the sale of Spectrum so on an adjusted basis EPS growth was 14.3%.
Adjusted EBITDA growth for the quarter excluding this prior-year gain was 6%.
Through the first half of the year earnings totaled $2.06 per share compared with adjusted earnings of $1.76 per share last year.
However as we've consistently pointed out last year's adjusted EPS would've been about $0.07 higher on a non-GAAP illustrated basis if we assumed 100% Wireless ownership for the entire first quarter.
On this more comparable basis the adjusted EPS growth rate for the first half of this year was 12.6%.
Beginning this quarter we are reporting Wireless equipment revenue and Wireless cost of equipment in our consolidated statements of income.
In our Wireless segment we are reporting the cost of equipment and the cost of service which were previously combined as cost of service and sales.
Prior period detail at both the consolidated and Wireless segment level is included in the financial and operating information schedules on our website.
I would also remind you that our Wireline results include the operations that we agreed to sell to Frontier.
This will be the case until the transaction closes which is on track for the first half of 2016.
As we pointed out last quarter the assets and liabilities associated with these operations have been classified on the balance sheet as held for sale and as such we are no longer recording depreciation expense.
For the full year we continue to estimate the earnings benefit to be about $0.12 to $0.13 per share.
The acquisition of AOL which we announced in mid-May closed on June 23.
Our balance sheet at June 30 includes the AOL assets and liabilities.
Our income statement for the second quarter does not reflect any results of AOL operations for the last seven days of the month due to immateriality.
The AOL results of operations will be fully included in the third quarter.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Fran.
Thanks Mike.
Good morning everyone.
Our second quarter results demonstrate that we continue to compete effectively and execute our strategy which is focused on providing consistent network reliability and a great customer experience.
Once again we delivered strong financial and operating results with double-digit growth in earnings and strong cash flows.
We believe that steady and consistent network and platform investment provides the foundation for innovative products and services for future profitable growth.
We are committed to building the business for the future through a disciplined capital allocation model that we outlined almost two years ago and continue to execute.
Through the first half of this year we have invested approximately $18 billion in Spectrum licenses and capital for future network capacity.
We also invested more than $4 billion to acquire new capabilities with the AOL transaction which supports our long-term video strategy.
In addition we returned more than $9 billion to our shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchase.
The $5 billion accelerated share repurchase program was completed in early June resulting in an overall reduction of 101.6 million shares.
We facilitated these initiatives while keeping our leverage ratio essentially unchanged and remaining on track with our deleverage plan.
On the execution front we had a strong quarter of quality connections growth and profitability in Wireless.
We had more than 1.1 million retail postpaid net adds which included 321 000 net phone additions.
We also had very strong customer retention with postpaid churn of 0.90% down four basis points year-over-year.
This was our lowest churn rate in three years.
Total Wireless revenue grew 5.3% and EBITDA increased by 9.1%.
Our EBITDA margin on both service and total Wireless revenue expanded on a year-over-year basis.
Our Wireline results were once again highlighted by growth in the consumer market where revenues were up over 4%.
Our segment EBITDA margin expanded modestly on a sequential and year-over-year basis.
Now let's get into our second quarter performance in more detail starting with our consolidated results on slide four.
Total operating revenue was $32.2 billion in the quarter and if we exclude the prior-period revenues from the public sector business we sold last year the comparable growth rate would've been 2.8%.
Consolidated top line revenue growth continued to be driven by Wireless and FiOS usage.
We believe that future revenue growth will come from video and the Internet of Things at both the network and platform layers.
Over the past several years we have been investing in these platforms and positioning ourselves to capitalize on these new sources of growth.
In terms of video we will introduce our mobile-first OTT video product in late summer.
As you know we have already announced some initial content partners.
Our acquisition of AOL further enhances our video strategy through its digital media and advertising platform capabilities a portfolio of content brands with a domestic average of about 190 million unique visitors per month and its loyal e-mail subscription customer base.
We are excited to have the very talented people of AOL on the Verizon team and look forward to their contributions to our success.
As far as Internet of Things we think that the transportation healthcare and energy industries in particular present great opportunities for us and we are very active fostering innovation in these areas.
We are very well-positioned to capitalize on these new growth opportunities and we will continue to develop business models to monetize usage on our network and at the platform level.
Within our current results new revenue streams from the Internet of Things and telematics continue to emerge and grow.
These revenues totaled approximately $165 million in the quarter and about $320 million year-to-date.
We continue to be focused on reducing our overall cost structure through process improvements and operating efficiencies while improving the overall customer experience.
Consolidated EBITDA totaled $11.8 billion up 6% on an adjusted basis and our EBITDA margin expanded by 110 basis points to 36.6%.
Let's turn now to cash flows and the balance sheet on slide five.
As highlighted a few minutes ago our capital allocation model is disciplined and consistent.
The priorities are to invest necessary capital in our networks to stay ahead of demand return value to shareholders and maintain a strong balance sheet.
The cash flows we generate enable us to execute on this investment strategy pay competitive dividends and deleverage to further strengthen the balance sheet.
In the second quarter cash flows from operations were $8.7 billion.
Through the first half cash flow from operations totaled $18.9 billion but included just under $2.4 billion of proceeds related to the tower monetization transaction which is nonrecurring.
We also continue to securitize wireless equipment installment receivables and received about $1.2 billion in cash proceeds in the second quarter.
Free cash flow for the first half of the year excluding the tower proceeds totaled $8.4 billion.
Capital expenditures were $4.5 billion in the quarter and $8.2 billion for the first half of the year.
We expect capital expenditures for 2015 to be within our stated range of $17.5 billion to $18 billion.
Our balance sheet remains strong and we continue to have the financial flexibility to grow the business and pursue our strategic goals.
We ended the quarter with $113.7 billion of gross debt net debt of $110.7 billion and a ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA of 2.5 times.
As I said earlier our deleveraging plans remain on track.
Now let's move into a review of the segments starting with Wireless on slide six.
In the Wireless business revenue growth profitability and cash flows are driven by our high-quality retail postpaid customer base.
As I said earlier total Wireless operating revenues grew 5.3% in the quarter to $22.6 billion.
Service revenue of $17.7 billion declined 2.2% while equipment revenue increased to $3.9 billion up nearly 62%.
Service revenue plus installment billings increased 2.3%.
For customers who select device installment plans lower service pricing is exchanged for higher device payments.
Equipment revenue which is largely recognized upfront is much higher than in the subsidy model.
Service revenue growth will continue to be pressured as more customers choose unsubsidized devices and equipment revenues will continue to increase with installment plan adoption.
Customer demand for device installment plans has increased.
The percentage of phone activations on installments grew to 49% in the quarter compared with 39% in the first quarter and only 18% a year ago.
Phone activations on device installment plans totaled $4.7 million in the quarter and we now have more than 14 million customers on these plans representing roughly 16% of our postpaid phone base.
Looking ahead we believe that the percentage of phone activations on installment will continue to increase and will likely be around 60% in the third quarter.
In terms of profitability we generated $9.9 billion of EBITDA in the quarter an increase of 9.1%.
Our EBITDA service margin increased to 56.1% up 580 basis points.
The EBITDA margin on total Wireless revenue expanded to 43.9% in the quarter up from 42.3% a year ago.
Now let's turn to slide seven and take a closer look at Wireless connections growth.
We ended the quarter with 109.5 million total retail connections.
This does not include any wholesale or Internet of Things connections.
Our industry-leading postpaid connections base grew 5.2% to 103.7 million and our prepaid connections totaled 5.8 million.
Postpaid gross additions improved sequentially to 3.9 million but were down year-over-year due primarily to lower tablet volumes.
As I highlighted earlier we had a very strong customer retention in the quarter with postpaid churn improving both sequentially and year-over-year to 0.90%.
One of our priorities this year was to improve customer retention and we are doing so with a disciplined approach focusing on high value customers.
Our retail postpaid net additions of more than 1.1 million were nearly twice the net additions in the first quarter.
The quality of the net adds remained very strong with 842 000 new 4G smartphones in the quarter.
Postpaid phone additions totaled 321 000 as net phone adds of 588 000 were partially offset by a net decline of 266 000 basic phones.
Tablet net adds totaled 852 000 in the quarter and net prepaid devices declined by 126 000.
Let's now take a look at 4G device activations and upgrades on slide eight.
Total postpaid device activations totaled 11.3 million in the quarter up nearly 2%.
About 85% of these activations were phones and the rest were mainly tablets.
We ended the quarter with 70.1 million smartphones in total and our smartphone penetration increased to approximately 81% of total phones.
4G devices now comprise approximately 73% of our retail postpaid connections base.
As you would expect growth in 4G device adoption continues to drive increased data and video usage.
Approximately 87% of our total data traffic is on the LTE network and overall traffic on LTE has essentially doubled in the past year.
About 7.2% of our retail postpaid base upgraded to a new device in the second quarter.
The quality of our phone base continues to improve as we add new 4G customers and upgrade our basic phone and 3G smartphone customers to 4G devices as part of our retention efforts.
In the past year our 4G smartphone connections have increased by 17.8 million or about 40% to 61.6 million.
We still have a sizable opportunity remaining with roughly 16 million basic phones and about 9 million 3G smartphones in our postpaid connections base.
We also have a profitable growth opportunity with tablets as they provide good value through increased data consumption and lower churn rate at the account level.
We ended the quarter with 9.6 million tablets in our postpaid connections base so overall penetration is still under 10%.
In terms of capital spending we continue investing for the capacity to further optimize our 4G LTE network and position the network for the future.
Wireless capital spending totaled $3.1 billion in the quarter and $5.5 billion for the first half of the year about 4% higher on a year-to-date basis.
National studies consistently rate Verizon as the overall 4G LTE network performance leader.
We lead in what matters most to customers coverage and consistent reliable performance.
Currently our 700 MHz and AWS-1 spectrum bands which represent approximately 40% of our license spectrum portfolio are utilized in our LTE network.
We are just beginning to reform 1900 PCS spectrum from 3G to 4G LTE in select markets representing the next phase of spectrum to be deployed to serve our growing LTE usage.
Our network densification plans which includes small cells DAS nodes and in-building solutions are on schedule.
In New York City we are well into our deployment and continue to scale and develop a healthy pipeline.
Downtown Chicago is another large urban market with small cell densification plans well underway consistent with what we outlined on our post-auction conference call.
Let's move next to our Wireline segment starting with a review of our consumer and mass markets revenue performance on slide nine.
In the consumer business FiOS continues to be the driver of our positive revenue trends resulting in revenue growth of 4.5%.
Mass markets which includes Small Business grew 3.2%.
FiOS now represents 79% of consumer revenue.
In the second quarter FiOS consumer revenue grew 9.8% driven by customer growth increased penetration of our Quantum products and higher pay-per-view sales due to the prize fight in early May.
Our FiOS Quantum broadband service continues to scale and with a higher profitability contribution.
At the end of the quarter 64% of our consumer FiOS Internet customers subscribed to data speeds of 50 megabits per second or higher.
We are seeing the highest rate of growth in the 75 megabits speed tier where 23% of our consumer FiOS customers currently subscribe.
In broadband we added 72 000 net FiOS customers and now have a total of 6.8 million FiOS Internet subscribers which is 41.4% penetration.
Overall net broadband subscribers decreased by 25 000 in the quarter.
In FiOS Video we added 26 000 net customers in the quarter and now have a total of 5.8 million FiOS video subscribers which represents 35.7% penetration.
We had strong customer interest in our Custom TV offering.
More than one third of our FiOS video gross adds this quarter opted for a Custom TV package.
And we also saw a migration demand from existing customers.
We will continue to work with content providers on this new product which so far is ahead of our expectations.
While adoption of Custom TV may initially have a negative impact on revenue growth it should improve profitability.
In the second quarter we experienced a slowing of FiOS customer growth which we attribute to triple play offer changes at a time of increased competitive intensity.
We have since made some promotional adjustments and our exit rate sales volumes have shown improvement.
We are focused on the continued evolution of our Wireline network.
In the second quarter we converted 51 000 copper customers bringing our first half total to 98 000.
As I have previously noted post-conversion we experienced significant improvements in customer satisfaction and a lower cost to serve.
Our agreement with Frontier for the sale of Wireline assets in the non-contiguous states of Florida Texas and California is also part of our network evolution as it will enable us to better focus our efforts on the highly dense markets in the Northeast.
We are working closely with Frontier to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals and assure a seamless transition.
We are making progress and remain on track to close the transaction in the first half of 2016.
Let's turn to slide 10 and cover Enterprise and wholesale as well as the Wireline segment in total.
In the Enterprise space we continue to work through secular and economic challenges.
In the second quarter lower Enterprise revenue declined 6.4%.
Excluding foreign exchange pressure the revenue decline was similar to the first quarter.
Declines in legacy transport revenue and CPE continued to outweigh growth in the newer and more strategic applications which are smaller in scale.
Revenue from services in the IP layer has been impacted by competitive price compression which is offsetting growth in applications.
In our global wholesale business revenues declined 4.5% in the second quarter which was better than expected due to some nonrecurring items.
We expect continued price compression technology migration and other secular challenges to pressure wholesale revenues which we expect to decline in the 5% to 6% range for the full year.
Total operating revenues for the entire Wireline segment were down 2.2% which included some FX pressure.
The segment EBITDA margin was 23.5% in the quarter up 10 basis points.
We are very committed to reducing our cost structure while maintaining strong customer satisfaction.
The Wireline head count was down 10% year-over-year and we continue to strive for gains in operational efficiency.
As I said we are far from satisfied and we will continue to work on our cost structure.
Capital spending in the Wireline for the first half of the year totaled $2.2 billion down 19%.
Let's move next to our summary slide.
We've had a good first half of 2015 delivering strong financial and operating results with double-digit growth in earnings and strong cash flows.
As always we continue to invest in our networks and platforms to position us for future growth.
We are very focused on developing new products and services in mobile video and the Internet of Things.
We are excited about the potential for revenues from these new products and services to grow quickly and become more meaningful in the future.
Our acquisition of AOL will be a key piece in our over-the-top mobile video strategy accelerating our capabilities in digital media and advertising.
We are confident in our ability to sustain profitability.
Consolidated EBITDA for the first half of the year was up nearly 6% on an adjusted basis and our EBITDA margin expanded 90 basis points to 37%.
In terms of consolidated revenue outlook we expect third quarter revenue growth to be higher than this quarter.
For the full year our consolidated revenue guidance is for growth of at least 3%.
These growth estimates exclude revenue from AOL which will become part of our results in the third quarter.
We continue to target overall capital spending in the range of $17.5 billion to $18 billion in 2015.
With that I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.
Thank you Fran.
Marley we're now ready for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Your first question comes from David Barden of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
I guess two if I could.
Fran could you kind of give us a little bit more color on the change in the revenue guidance for the year? Obviously what's different between when you were expecting 4% versus 3%? And then obviously what the moving parts are to get accelerated revenue growth in the second half? And then I think the second question would be for the markets reacting to something today I think it's the sequential movement in the ARPA or the ARPU.
And obviously there's lots of moving parts in there.
There's the impact of EIP.
There is the impact of mix change.
But I think the market is also trying to see through those and figure out what the net movement is in terms of people pricing themselves up in the buckets and generating more ARPU versus some of the givebacks and the competitive pressure we are seeing inside the system at Verizon.
If you could give us more color on how the net is moving on pricing inside the base that would be helpful.
Thanks.
Sure.
Good.
Thanks David.
So at first on the revenue guidance.
So look I mean coming into this year we set a priority that we said we would protect our base and I think if you look at the results of the first quarter and the second quarter the churn speaks for itself with four basis points improvement from the first quarter year-over-year and then the second quarter year-over-year with the 0.90% being the lowest churn rate in the last three years that we posted up.
In addition some of the other changes in the assumption fact is the take rate of Edge.
I would tell you we never anticipated that Edge would accelerate as much as it has and looking forward into 3Q being at 60% that's much higher than we had anticipated but the market has moved us there.
And quite honestly it's getting more and more confusing at the frontline so this really translates into simplicity for our customers in choosing the Edge plan and that's where the market has gone so that's where we need to compete.
And then finally from an upgrade perspective going back to protection of our base we're up 800 000 upgrades year-over-year.
So more people are selecting the new price plans when they get a new handset and that puts us on the Edge which obviously generates more equipment revenue and puts pressure on the service revenue.
And coming into this year we knew that service revenue would dilute.
We're seeing more dilution than we anticipated because more customers are selecting that Edge plan.
But I think just a couple of things to keep in check here because when you zero in on one metric you're walking away with the wrong impression as to what's happening in the overall P&amp;L.
So first off we generated growth in revenue of 5.3% in Wireless this quarter.
So if you look at the first half of the year that's $2.5 billion of revenue growth just in the first half.
You annualize that that's growth that's bigger than some Fortune 500 companies generate in the full year of revenue.
So this is still a very healthy business and it goes to what the overall industry is as well.
So there's a lot going on in the industry to generate more usage in the future.
So if you look at the IARPA which is the installment plus the revenue per account we're up 2.3%.
So if you just focus in on the service revenue of course that's going to dilute year-over-year but I think you have to step up and look at the overall financials of Verizon Wireless.
In addition if you look at the connections we're up 4.3% year-over-year in connections and we're also up in accounts.
So when you look out to the future you're adding accounts you're adding devices that's also going to be more usage on the network.
And obviously the whole future of the industry is based on generating more usage on the network so that people want to use more.
And we know from a fact that more people are consuming more video on wireless today than they were a year ago.
So that's all part of the strategy.
You look at tablets we're still less than 10% of the base in penetration of tablets.
That's still another growth area for us.
Then you look at Internet of Things.
Internet of Things is still in early stages for the entire industry.
There is more and more devices coming out that's going to generate revenue in the future.
And then of course if you just look at Verizon we have the whole AOL and OTT launch which we'll get to.
We just launched Custom TV in Wireline and that in itself will also put pressure on the top line.
So if you think about the Custom TV package customers are now only paying for what they want to view and we're only paying the content providers for what our customers want to view.
So what you're seeing is you're seeing a decrease in revenue but you're also seeing a decrease in content cost that actually improves the profitability.
So again I think if you step back and you look at the entire portfolio of what's going on I think you walk away with a very different conclusion than if you just look at the ARPU because we know that ARPU is going to get condensed with the new EIP plan.
So thanks David for the question.
Thanks Fran.
Next question please? Your next question comes from Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks a lot.
Good morning.
Fran you talked a bit about productivity and cost initiatives earlier.
Can you just update us on the steps you're taking to offset the dilution from the divestiture to Frontier next year? And perhaps in the context of that you can just update us on the union negotiations? I guess that deadline's coming up here shortly.
Thanks.
Sure.
Thanks Simon.
So on productivity and cost look I mean we've been at this now for three years and our VLSS program Verizon Lean Six Sigma program continues to generate savings.
I mean if you just look at Wireline year-over-year down almost 8 000 employees from a year-over-year basis and still generating the great customer service and the volumes that we have there.
So that speaks to the efficiency that we're getting both in the network efficiency side reduction of over time and of course as the industry matures now you're looking a lot of houses that already have an ONT on the side of the house.
So it's less labor because you're just activating the house that now doesn't really need much of a truck roll to go to it.
So there's a lot of efficiency there.
In the Wireless side a lot of concentration around self-serve and customer service centers.
And then we go to structure around the Wireless unit.
So we're still on that whole productivity cost routine and we still believe that we have a very full runway in front of us and you're going to continue to see us take cost out of this structure.
If you just look at year-over-year on cash cost alone if you look at our revenue growth versus cash cost we're really maintaining cash cost at a very slow incremental increase.
So that speaks to the efficiency that we're driving through all of our initiatives.
On the Frontier side we still have – we're expecting to close this transaction towards the end of the first quarter.
So we still have about 8 months to 9 months of planning activity.
We're well on our way and I think what we've done in the past speaks for itself as how we'll address this in the future and obviously I'll talk more about this as we get closer.
But we are still designing those plans.
Obviously you know Dan Mead is leading that team and he is very diligent in what he's doing to prepare us for the separation of that unit and getting our cost within alignment to offset the stranded cost perspective.
On the union side of the house just as we know there are in total 27 collective bargaining agreements covering about 38 000 people in nine Eastern states.
We began formal negotiations on June 22 and to jump start the negotiations the company put forth a comprehensive offer on the table which included wage increases and changes to current contracts to help us manage our cost and increase our flexibility to better serve our customers.
Simply stated we will need to monetize at our legacy contracts to better position us to compete in the digital age.
Given the level of change we are seeking with respect to benefit cost management as well as work rules our expectation is that the negotiation process will take some time.
As you know it is not unusual for negotiations to continue well beyond the expiration date of the contract which is August 1.
We intend to work through the process until we achieve a new agreement that addresses the needs of our business and preserves the high quality of our jobs for our employees.
So I think David (sic) [Simon] as far as that goes that's probably all I'm going to say around the union negotiations.
It's early on and we still have a lot of work to do.
All right.
Thank you.
Marley next question please.
Your next question comes from Phil Cusick of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks guys.
I guess Fran if you could start on expanding on Custom TV any update on discussions with programmers there? And are people sort of – it seems like people are taking smaller packages than they would've otherwise.
What's the average number of add-ons and any particular favorites that people are either walking away from or going to? And then second just a housekeeping issue.
I wonder if you can detail for us the impact of AOL on the P&amp;L just sort of rough numbers on the different areas and how you're going to report that going forward.
Thanks.
Sure.
Thanks Phil.
So on Custom TV I mean obviously we know we were paving the path for a new venture here to give customers what they wanted.
Obviously I'm not going to comment on any litigation matters currently in effect with Disney and ESPN as everyone knows that we're being sued on the contractual arrangement there.
So I'm really not going to talk about that.
But look I mean we continue to have a great partnership with Disney and ESPN and we will continue to work through that disagreement in our business relationships.
And I will tell you if you just look at the over-the-top product I mean ESPN is participating with college sports in that product.
So we will continue to work with ESPN and the lawsuit will take its own course of action.
And again we believe we're in our contractual rights to offer what we're offering.
From a customer selection perspective I will tell you this has certainly exceeded our expectations.
As we saw through the quarter once we launched this we saw the uptake rate increase.
As I said in my prepared remarks over a third of the customers now coming in are selecting a Custom TV package.
I will tell you that as far as the number of genres that they take it's less than what we anticipated but they are selecting based on their own favorability and I'm not going to get into who selects what and how many we're doing there.
But I will tell you that it is it will put pressure on the top line but it obviously is going to improve our profitability here from a programming standpoint.
So we will continue to work through that.
The other thing I wanted to mention on just the growth metrics of FiOS here.
As you know given the disputes that we had in Custom TV we also were blacked out from many content providers in advertising this product during the quarter.
And in two of the biggest markets both New York and Philadelphia we were unable to advertise the Custom TV package for approximately 45 days until we worked through that.
So that also contributed to some of the slower growth in FiOS because it took us out of market for that period of time during the quarter.
And then of course in addition to that we had the Time Warner Cable separation of the merger which both entrants came back into the market pretty competitively.
So that put some pressure on this as well but even with that we saw some great progress with the Custom TV package.
On the second piece Phil of AOL there is nothing included in AOL from a P&amp;L perspective this quarter.
We closed it at the end of the quarter.
It was totally immaterial and from a cut off perspective it just wasn't materially enough for us to include.
However we did include the opening balance sheet.
We've done a preliminary assessment on the fair value of the assets that we acquired.
We had an independent third-party do that on a preliminary basis and that is included in the balance sheet.
So you'll see goodwill has increased for the acquisition as well as our customer list because there was value assigned to the subscription business of AOL.
But from a P&amp;L standpoint there was no revenue or expenses included this quarter.
That will be included for the first time in the third quarter and at this point we will be including that in our overall corporate results for the remainder of this year.
And then as I said before we'll have to wait to see where we go with this – whether we include it as a separate viewable or we disclose revenues or how we're going to do that in the future and I don't have an answer yet on that piece.
So we'll wait till first quarter and entering into 2016 to give you more of a view into what happens going forward.
Thanks Fran.
Marley next question please? Your next question comes from Brett Feldman of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks and thanks for the comments on the retention efforts.
Just as a follow-up to that you've seen your churn rate in postpaid decline year-over-year for two quarters now.
Do you have conviction you're going to be able to see your churn rate sort of stay at a low run rate for the balance of the year in light of your focus on it? And then just you noted that you are still planning on launching the mobile video service this summer.
Are we going to see the full rollout this summer or is it going to be something that's going to be phased in over time and just along those lines where are you with the adoption or the penetration of your multi-cast devices? Thanks.
Sure.
Thanks Brett.
So look first on churn.
We've made as I said coming into this year we were really going to concentrate on protection of our base and I think we've shown that.
If you just look at and we don't really disclose this but if you just look at our basic churn rate we've seen even double what we've seen in the overall churn rate improvement so we are maintaining those basic phone customers and converting them into a 4G LTE smartphone device and we're seeing really good progress on that.
And that's part of the $80 price point that we have in the market.
It's been very very successful for us in the retention of our customer base.
But speaking on the churn piece I just want to caution everybody be careful because there is seasonality in the churn.
So generally third quarter is a little bit higher than the second quarter but we do believe that we will still be able to improve on a year-over-year basis.
As far as the over-the-top launch we are absolutely going to be ready to go by late summer.
It won't be the full entire of everything that we contemplate within the product set.
It'll be an initial launch and as the year goes on it will progress.
So more to come on that but as you know we have signed up a number of content providers sports channels DreamWorks AwesomenessTV Vice Media Scripps and of course we can't leave out the AOL content that's coming with the acquisition including HuffPost and TechCrunch.
So we have a very good lineup.
This is a lineup that is really around all live type news clips and sports and events so very different than what anyone else is bringing to the marketplace.
So more to come on that this summer from Marni and Tim Armstrong and his team who now owns this product set.
And then on the multicast again as we go through this all the phones that we sold in the fourth quarter have the capability of multicast other than the 6 and the 6 Plus and we continue to feed the market with those multicast devices and I can't speak to exactly what the next iconic device will have in it so we'll have to wait to see what that comes out with but this will continue to grow over the next year to have a proliferation of units in the marketplace to make this matter as we continue on with our OTT launch.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
Next question please Marley.
Your next question comes from Mike Rollins of Citigroup.
Please go ahead with your question.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks and good morning.
Two questions for me.
Fran first just a housekeeping item.
I'm wondering if you could disclose the receivable amount for the equipment installment plan that you sold both current and noncurrent at the end of the second quarter.
And then more strategically can you talk about how important the Wireline business is for the health and profitability of your Wireless business and how important it is or isn't to keep those two businesses together over time? Thanks.
Thanks Michael.
So first off on the receivable we're fairly flat because keep in mind that we continue to securitize the receivable that removes that receivable from our books.
So it's consistently flat between $2.5 billion to $3 billion so it really hasn't changed much.
On the overall Wireline perspective look I mean we've sold the three properties in the South Texas California and Florida because they were islands to us very difficult properties to operate from our scale perspective.
There's still a lot of copper in those footprints and Frontier does a much better job with that and strategically it just didn't fit for us.
But look I think if anyone was to enter the broadband market the East Coast would be the first place that they would go.
I mean we have an incredible footprint that stretches from Washington DC up through Boston.
The broadband connection to those homes along with our Wireless product and the population of that segment is critical to us and it is a strategic asset for us to continue to market and launch with our Wireless product and over the top is going to feed into more of that as we go in here strategically.
So right now Lowell and I sit and we're very satisfied with the portfolio of assets we have.
From an enterprise space that enterprise asset is very critical to our enterprise customers both from a Wireless and a Wireline perspective so they're important relationships to us.
So right now I mean I'm not saying that if someone didn't come in and take a look at the assets – as we've always said we're open to anything.
But right now strategically we are very satisfied with the asset portfolio we have and it's strategic to us.
So right now we're content with what we have.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from Mike McCormack of Jefferies.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys.
Thanks.
Fran maybe just a quick comment on margin pacing throughout the year now that we have more Edge uptake just how we should be thinking about that typical fourth quarter seasonality? Second on the Wireless side anything on your radar with respect to leasing plans? And then just finally on the enterprise piece I know you mentioned pricing and the competition there.
Just trying to get a sense for is there something going on that's incredibly irrational? Or is it just a byproduct more competitive in certain areas? Thanks.
Sure.
Thanks.
So Mike on the margin pricing look I think that the financials speak for themselves and of course we'll get a lot of flavor around how EIP helped the profitability and all this.
Bit again as Mike and I have continued to say if you look at total revenue and the total EBITDA margin that kind of neutralizes out the impact of the EIP and you see that we're increasing this year-over-year.
And even if you look at Wireless margin at 56% in this quarter even if you normalize out the EIP benefit you're still over 50% margins for that business.
So I think it speaks to itself of the – we continue to be an "and" company.
We're going to grow and we're going to generate the profitability and we're going to do this in a very disciplined manageable approach.
And we've said that we felt that coming into the year that we would hold our margins given all the competitive pressures and we're still on track to do that.
So I think the margin itself speaks for itself.
And from a seasonality standpoint the one thing I would say going back to the change in the revenue guidance is as we look out into the fourth quarter keep in mind fourth quarter last year was an unusually very high volume quarter that generated a lot of equipment revenue and the bulk of our sales were still in the equipment subsidy model.
And that hovered around the new 6 and 6 Plus that came out.
I just don't see that the next iconic device is going to be substantially different and therefore I don't see that – and this is just me speaking I don't see the volume there in the fourth quarter that we had last year from a total iconic change of the 6 and the 6 Plus.
So I think that will also benefit us from just a margin perspective.
On Wireless and leasing plans look this is – the leasing plan is just a fancy way to do installment plans.
But of course you get another accounting benefit by putting assets up on your books and being able to amortize them below the EBITDA line.
So at this point we have no plans to do any type of leasing arrangement.
And then on the enterprise side look as I've said before 2015 would look like 2014.
I still do see some glimmers of hope here especially in the government sector where we're starting to sign some large contracts.
But as you know in this business I sign a large contract today it takes me at least 12 months to implement that before I start to see the revenue benefit.
So I'm looking that there could be some positives here going into 2016 on the enterprise side.
Obviously it's being impacted by FX right now.
But this is a very competitive environment with thousands of players who have niches.
We do very well on the security side of the house.
We're doing well in the data center side on the whole cloud services.
But these revenue streams are just not large enough to offset the price compression that we're seeing in IP.
But again I see some glimmers of hope in IP where maybe it's starting to stabilize again and if that happens then we should see some improvement.
But right now it would be a cautious outlook from me.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thanks Fran.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from John Hodulik of UBS.
Please go ahead with your question.
Okay.
Thanks.
First on the Edge take rate Fran how high can this go over time? You gave the guidance for 60% next quarter but do you see a time where in the not-too-distant future you could phase out subsidized plans and move all towards these Edge plans? And then the other number that stuck out was the lower churn.
You talked about some of the efforts to lower churn.
Do you think you can maintain this level of sort of below 1% going forward? Thanks.
Yeah.
Thanks John.
So on the Edge take rate look I mean this is where the market has gone.
If you look at all the advertising in the market it's around the access point and this is where we're at.
So I think that where we're going to end up here is you'll never get to 100% overall because of corporate accounts and so forth.
They're not going to take an installment type plan.
So I don't think we ever get to "100%" in our base.
But from a consumer standpoint yes I could see us getting to where we're more heavily very heavily concentrated on the installment side of the house and quite honestly as I said from a frontline perspective it'd be much easier for them to just sell one product.
So simplicity is important to us.
So you're going to see us as we gradually move through here that the market is moving us there so we're eventually going to get there.
From a churn perspective as I said I think with all the programs we have going we're making very good progress in our base.
Our customers are loyal.
You've seen us running our new ads and some of our customers are coming back to us because they were dissatisfied with where they went.
So I think that this all proves to again the basis of how Verizon Wireless has been successful and will continue to be successful is the quality of our network the consistent performance that our network gives to our customers and the breadth of that network across the United States.
So that's really what it comes to and as I've said before the number one reason a customer leaves you is because of quality of the network price is number two.
So the quality of the network still is overwhelmingly more important than price not to say that customers are not price-sensitive but we think that we can continue to be very competitive and protect our high-value-base.
So yes I do think that we'll continue on this track.
Okay.
Thanks Fran.
Marley next question please.
Your next question comes from Amir Rozwadowski of Barclays.
Please go ahead with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much and good morning folks.
I'm wondering if we could switch gears a little bit in terms of the network investment strategy here Fran.
We start to hear things coming out of Washington – 600 megahertz seems to be like pushing for early 2016 start.
First of all how do you think about the timing on the reality of that happening and how should we think about your strategy around the need for low band spectrum? And then sort of a bigger picture question here I mean clearly focus remains on providing a compelling network experience from your side particularly if I think about your CapEx investment and shifting towards Wireless.
I was wondering if you could talk a bit more about some of the technology evolutions that you folks are embracing.
Clearly when we speak to folks sort of in the push to small cells perhaps some of the software defined networking at (51:35) which we haven't seen from any other players and stuff along those lines to really try and optimize the network throughput any additional color would be most helpful here? So thanks Amir.
So on the networks side as far as the incentive auction goes yeah the FCC is now saying that they're going to hold the auction first quarter of 2016 probably at the end of the first quarter of 2016.
As you know they had a meeting on July 16 where they were going to set the rules but that actually got postponed.
So we'll have to wait to look at what the auction rules are and decide whether we're going to participate at the appropriate time.
The only thing I would say is based on the AWS-3 auction hopefully the – we have some lessons learned on what we shouldn't do with a multi-billion-dollar companies giving favorable treatment so we'll have to see where these assessments come out.
As far as our strategy here the need for low-band spectrum for us is not a great need.
As you know we build out our LTE on the 700 megahertz which is contiguous across the United States which is a competitive advantage for us.
We then launched our AWS-1 spectrum for capacity and now we're in the process of revamping our 1900 PCS.
So the key here is to keep in mind that of our licensed portfolio only 40% of our licensed portfolio supports LTE and 87% of the data traffic is now running through LTE.
So if you look at our 1900 megahertz the yet to be deployed AWS-3 which we bought and will be deployed over the next probably 2.5 years out and then our build strategy which we came out of the auction within Chicago and New York we have plenty of capacity to deal with the ramping of what we believe will happen with our OTT product and the continued pursuit of volume in the industry.
So our buildout is on track.
We do not necessarily need low band spectrum but that doesn't mean that we would not participate in the incentive auction.
Again we'll have to wait for the rules to come out but obviously we are continuing down the track that we set on coming out of the AWS-3 auction.
So at that point we'll have to wait to see what happens with the FCC.
Amir thank you.
Marley we have time for one more question and if you could queue that up I appreciate it.
Your last question comes from Jennifer Fritzsche of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks Fran.
Following up on Amir's question on spectrum in the past you have said you would consider a longer-term lease agreement with a potential partner.
Is that still the case? Or given your recent comments just now about capacity what are your current thoughts on any sort of longer-term lease agreement? Yeah thanks Jennifer.
Well I always say you never say never right? So look – I mean we're open to any options but as far as the leasing of spectrum goes as I said before in order to protect the viability of our network and our planning and our capital allocation this would have to be almost a lease in perpetuity so that you could never be held hostage by anybody because once you deploy a spectrum in your network if somebody turned around 10 years from now and said I think I'm not going to lease that to you any more that would be detrimental to your business and you can't just – you just can't let that happen.
So I guess under the right terms and conditions it would be something that we could look at but I would tell you I think that's very very difficult given the asset that you're leasing here.
So I think that's the perspective and we're concentrating on our build.
The one thing I didn't answer on Amir's question was SDN and we're into that.
I mean obviously LTE in itself is a software-developed network and it gives you the scalability of giving richer network experiences and our team is working on that and we've been working on that for quite some time.
So there's a lot of things that will bring efficiency to the network.
I mean there's CRAN out there.
We are in the initial – obviously 5G is being talked about in the industry of course Asia is involved in 5G and of course we will start to get involved in the standard-setting around 5G.
So there's a lot happening in this industry from a technology standpoint so spectrum's important it will always be important but it's not the only tool we have in our toolbox.
So from that perspective we're concentrating on that strategy that we outlined coming out of the AWS-3 auction.
Thanks Fran.
Hey Marley thank you but before we end the call I'd like to turn the call back to Fran for some final comments.
Okay.
Thanks everybody and again thank you for joining us this morning.
I'd just like to end though at through the first half of 2015 we continue to execute on the fundamentals we position our business for the future and we always return value to our shareholders.
On a comparable basis first half's consolidated revenues grew 3.5% earnings grew 12.6% cash flow from our operations was up 11.9% Wireless revenues increased over $2.5 billion to just under $45 billion.
We positioned ourselves for future growth we acquired valuable mid-band spectrum in the FCC auction invested $8 billion in capital year-to-date and made a very strategic acquisition in AOL.
AOL acquisition greatly accelerates our digital media and advertising platform capabilities which will become a critical element of our OTT strategy and our revenue growth for the future.
We returned $9 billion to our shareholders through the first half of this year $4 billion in dividends and $5 billion in an ASR program.
We certainly look forward to a very positive second half of 2015 with confidence and our ability to execute our strategy and create value for our customers our shareholders and our employees.
Thank you again for joining us today and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Verizon Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be opened for questions following the presentation.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Michael Stefanski Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Thanks Brad.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
This is Mike Stefanski and I'm here with our Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
As a reminder our earnings release financial and operating information the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on the Investor Relations website.
A replay and a transcript of this call will also be made available on our website.
Before we get started I'd like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement on Slide two.
Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties.
Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC which are available on our website.
This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in the financial materials we have posted on the website.
The quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.
Before Fran goes through our results I'd like to highlight a few items.
For the third quarter of 2015 we reported earnings of $0.99 per share on a GAAP basis.
These reported results include a non-cash pre-tax charge of $342 million or $0.05 per share for a pension remeasurement adjustment due to a settlement accounting threshold that was met in the third quarter.
Excluding the effect of this non-operational item adjusted earnings per share was $1.04 for the third quarter compared with $0.89 a year ago or a growth of 16.9%.
There were no special items of a non-operational nature in the third quarter of 2014.
Through the first nine months adjusted earnings totaled $3.10 per share compared with $2.65 per share last year.
However as we've consistently pointed out last year's adjusted EPS would've been higher on a non-GAAP illustrated basis if we assumed 100% Wireless ownership for the entire first quarter.
On this more comparable basis the adjusted EPS growth rate was about 14% for the first nine months of 2015.
As a reminder our Wireline results include the operations in the three states that we agreed to sell to Frontier.
These operations will be included until the transaction closes which we expect at the end of the first quarter of 2016.
Also as previously noted we are no longer recording depreciation expense on these assets as they are classified as held for sale.
We continue to estimate that the full year 2015 earnings benefit of lower depreciation expense will be about $0.13 per share.
In terms of the AOL acquisition which closed in late June our third quarter consolidated results include the operations of AOL which are reported as part of corporate and other.
We have not restated prior history to periods prior to the third quarter of 2015 and will not include AOL results.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Fran.
Thanks Mike.
Good morning everyone.
Our third quarter and year-to-date results demonstrate that we continue to execute on the fundamentals of our business and deliver strong financial performance which actively positioning the business for future growth and profitability.
We are very committed to building the business for the future and we are doing so through investments in our existing networks as well as the platforms that will position us to capture incremental profitable growth in new areas like mobile video and the Internet of things.
We continued to execute a disciplined capital allocation model.
In addition to our consistent investment strategy we are also committed to returning value to shareholders and maintaining a strong balance sheet.
We have had a very active year with capital investments in spectrum purchases which position us for the future growth the strategic acquisition of AOL and the return of more than $11 billion in value to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases where remaining on track with our previously stated deleveraging plan.
In early September our board of directors approved a 2.7% dividend increase which raises our annualized dividend to $2.26 per share.
This was the ninth consecutive year that our board has approved a dividend increase affirming their confidence in the strength of our future cash flows.
On the operational front our focus is to provide customers with consistent network reliability and a great customer experience and we are competing very effectively in all parts of the business.
We once again delivered strong earnings growth and free cash flows.
In Wireless we posted another quarter of quality connections growth and profitability with sequential improvements in postpaid growth and net ads as well as net phone addition.
Postpaid net ads totaled 1.3 million which does not include any wholesale or Internet of things connections.
Net phone add additions were 430 000.
Customer retention was also a highlight with postpaid churn of 0.93% down 7 basis points from last year.
Total Wireless revenue grew 5.4% and our EBITDA margin expanded.
Our Wireline quarterly results were highlighted by FiOS revenue and customer growth with sequential increases in both in Internet and video subscribers.
Our segment EBITDA margin of 23.5% was up 50 basis points.
Now let's get into our third quarter performance in more detail starting with our consolidated results on Slide four.
Total operating revenue was $33.2 billion an increase of 5% which as Mike indicated includes revenues from AOL.
Excluding AOL which was not part of Verizon a year ago our top line growth was 3.1%.
Our consolidated revenues have been consistently driven by customer and usage growth in both Wireless and FiOS.
Our overall revenue mix continues to change driven by the unsubsidized equipment model increasing video demand in Wireless and a higher mix of broadband and FiOS.
As these trends evolve over the near-term we expect future revenue growth to result from increased video and Internet of things traffic enabling new business models in wireless and continued broadband demand in Wireline.
In terms of our mobile video strategy earlier this month we were the first to market with the commercial launch of go90tm a differentiated mobile-first social entertainment platform.
Go90 includes a broad selection of premium content and social engagement features and the capability for sharing and conversation around the content.
The initial feedback has been strong with increasing engagement without significant promotion and we have received positive industry recognition.
As go90 develops we will be adding more great content features and advertising opportunities.
You can expect a flow of product enhancements creating a new ecosystem for digital creators and advertisers and a video consumption model that we can monetize in multiple ways.
AOL is expected to play a key role in the success of our video strategy.
The acquisition of AOL significantly improves our digital media and advertising capabilities.
These capabilities will be a key component of our video business model which will be driven by digital mobile advertising in the future.
We are taking a strong leadership position in the Internet of things.
With our experience in networks devices platforms and applications we are creating an ecosystem that will foster innovation and expand the entire IoT market.
Here are few examples of our early initiatives.
In August we announced the commercial availability of Hum an aftermarket vehicle technology and subscription service creating a connected car driving experience that can operate in more than 150 million vehicles in the United States.
We are very active in Smart City solutions market and we have already announced a partnership with the city of Savannah Georgia.
Municipalities like Savannah are looking to take advantage of our intelligent solutions to integrate its parent systems monitor traffic and safety conditions in real-time to improve efficiency and public safety.
These are just a few examples of the many opportunities we are pursuing.
We are very well positioned to capitalize on these new opportunities that require both the ubiquity of mobile service and the capabilities of platforms above the connectivity layer.
This will enable us to monetize usage through new commercial models include data analytics and applications.
New revenue streams from the Internet of things continued to emerge and grow with revenues of $175 million in the quarter and about $495 million year-to-date.
As our revenue mix expands we are focused on improving the customer experience while reducing our overall cost structure through process improvements and operating efficiencies.
The focus on cost structure has enabled us sustain a strong earnings profile.
Consolidated EBITDA totaled $11.9 billion up 7.5% on an adjusted basis and our adjusted EBITDA margin expanded by 80 basis points to 35.8%.
Let's turn now to cash flows and the balance sheet on Slide five.
Cash flows from operations were $9.5 billion in the third quarter and totaled $28.4 billion year-to-date.
The nine-month total included just under $2.4 billion of proceeds related to the tower monetization transaction which is nonrecurring.
In the third quarter we continued to securitize Wireless equipment installment receivables and received about $2 billion in cash proceeds.
Free cash flow for the first nine months excluding the tower proceeds totaled $13.5 billion.
Capital expenditures were $4.4 billion in the quarter and $12.5 billion year-to-date.
We expect capital expenditures for 2015 to be within our stated range of $17.5 billion to $18 billion.
Our balance sheet remained strong and enables the financial flexibility to grow the business.
We ended the quarter with $112.3 billion of gross debt net debt of $108.4 billion and a ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA of 2.4 times.
Now let's move into a review of the segments starting with Wireless on Slide six.
In the Wireless business revenue growth profitability and cash flows are driven by our high-quality retail postpaid customer base.
Total Wireless operating revenues grew 5.4% in the quarter to $23 billion.
Service revenue of $17.6 billion declined 4.1% while equipment revenue increased to $4.3 billion up 73%.
Service revenue plus installment billings increased 1.2%.
Service revenue growth will continue to be pressured and equipment revenues will grow as the activation rate for device installment plans increase and more of the customer base moves to unsubsidized service pricing.
In early August we simplified our pricing structure centered on the device installment model.
The pricing change simplified the customer experience at the point of sale and provided a cleaner structure for managing their accounts.
Existing customers can still choose to sign a two year service contract and remain on subsidized pricing when upgrading to a new device.
Additionally business customers do not generally select device installment plans.
Consistent with our expectations the percentage of phone activations on installment plans grew to about 58% in the third quarter compared with 49% in the second quarter and 12% in the third quarter of last year.
In the fourth quarter we expect the percentage of phone activations on device installment plans to increase to around 70%.
During the quarter 5.6 million phones were activated on device installment plans.
We have about 19 million device payment phone connections in total representing approximately 22% of our postpaid phone base.
Overall more than 30% of our postpaid phone customers are on unsubsidized service pricing.
In terms of profitability we generated $9.9 billion of EBITDA in the quarter an increase of 9.2%.
Our EBITDA service margin increased to 56.4% up from 49.5%.
As we have said before we believe a more relevant measure of profitability is EBITDA as a percentage of total wireless revenue which expanded to 43.2% up 160 basis points.
On a year-to-date basis our EBITDA margin was 43.9% up 100 basis points from a year ago.
Now let's turn to Slide seven and take a closer look at Wireless connections growth.
We ended the quarter with 110.8 million total retail connections.
This total does not include any wholesale or Internet of Things connections.
Our industry-leading postpaid connections base grew 4.9% to 105 million and our prepaid connections totaled 5.7 million.
Postpaid gross additions improved sequentially to 4.2 million.
Our disciplined focus on customer retention resulted in improved postpaid churn of 0.93% in the quarter compared with 1% a year ago.
Each quarter this year we have improved our year-over-year postpaid churn rate between 4 and 7 basis points.
We are very focused on improving the customer experience through simplified pricing and better execution in our distribution channels.
We are seeing lower customer service calling rates which is an indication of improved customer satisfaction.
Our retail postpaid net additions of 1.3 million were high quality.
With a sequential improvement in the number of smartphone and total phone net adds we added 889 000 new 4G smartphones in the quarter which were partially offset by a net decline in 3G smartphones resulting in 694 000 net new smartphones.
Total postpaid phone net adds totaled 430 000 which included a net decline of basic phones.
Tablet net adds totaled 818 000.
Net prepaid devices declined by 80 000.
Let's now take a look at 4G device activations and upgrades on Slide eight.
Total postpaid device activations totaled 11.6 million in the quarter down about 1.2%.
Similar to prior quarters about 84% of these activations were phones with tablets accounting for the majority of the other device activations.
We ended the quarter with 71.5 million smartphones in total and our smartphone penetration increased to more than 82% of total phones.
4G devices now comprise more than 76% of our retail postpaid connections base.
As you would expect growth in 4G device adoption continues to drive increased data and video usage.
Approximately 89% of our total data traffic is on the LTE network and overall traffic on LTE has increased by about 75% in the past year.
About 7% of our retail postpaid base upgraded to a new device in the third quarter.
The quality of our overall postpaid phone base continues to improve.
Through gross adds and upgrades our 4G phone base has increased by roughly 34% in the past 12 months to $64.6 million.
We still have a sizable 4G upgrade opportunity with roughly 15 million basic phones and nearly 7 million 3G smartphones remaining in our postpaid connections base.
Tablets are also under penetrated in our postpaid base at only 10%.
Wireless capital spending totaled $2.9 billion in the quarter and $8.5 billion year-to-date up 8.4% from a year ago.
We continued to invest in our 4G LTE network to provide the industry’s best reliability and to position ourselves to capture the efficiencies and capabilities of new technologies.
We are focused on improving our network capacity through a number of optimization techniques effective management of our spectrum inventory and further densification in urban markets.
Our densification program is progressing well and it is achieving the capacity gains that we expected on the spectrum that is in service.
For example in Chicago we are on our plan for small cell deployments covering key locations with distributed antenna systems and expanding our in-building coverage.
This has helped support approximately 75% data growth on the network while maintaining our number one ranking in network quality according to both internal and external competitive benchmark studies.
National studies continued to consistently rate Verizon as the overall 4G LTE network performance leader.
We lead in what matters most to customers coverage and consistent reliable performance.
Densification is just one aspect of our network evolution strategy.
We are working on centralizing network radio control to enhance capacity and provide operational efficiencies while beginning to implement a software defined network architecture laying the groundwork for new innovative services and applications.
We are extending our network leadership into 5G with our announcement several weeks ago that we are leading the technology forum with key partners to ensure the aggressive pace of innovation standard developments and appropriate requirements for the next generation of wireless technology.
Let's move next to our Wireline segment starting with a review of our consumer and mass markets revenue performance on Slide nine.
In the consumer business FiOS continues to be the driver of revenue growth and now represents 79% of consumer revenue.
In the third quarter consumer revenue grew 2.8% and mass markets which include Small Business grew 1.8%.
As we expected there was a change in the consumer revenue growth trajectory.
The primary reason for the decline is driven by lower paid TV subscriber growth and an increase in customers rightsizing their existing bundles.
While FiOS broadband continues to grow we are seeing a decline in the percentage of triple play customers.
In addition we continue to see interest in our custom TV offering which offers more choice and control at a lower price point.
We expect the continued adoption of custom TV will pressure revenue growth but result in a higher contribution margin.
In the third quarter FiOS consumer revenue grew 7.1% driven primarily by broadband subscriber growth and increased penetration of Quantum.
Our Quantum broadband service continues to scale and because there are no content costs has a higher profitability contribution.
At the end of the quarter roughly two-thirds of our consumer FiOS Internet customers subscribed to data speeds of 50 megabits per second or higher.
We are seeing the highest rate of growth in the 75 megabit speed tier where one fourth of our Quantum customers currently subscribed.
As I highlighted earlier FiOS subscriber growth improved sequentially in the third quarter.
In broadband we added 114 000 net FiOS customers and now have a total of 6.9 million FiOS Internet subscribers representing 41.7 penetration.
Overall net broadband subscribers increased by 2000 in the quarter.
In video we added 42 000 net customers in the quarter and now have a total of 5.8 million FiOS video subscribers which represents 35.6% penetration.
We are working closely with Frontier to finalize the sale of our Wireline properties in Florida Texas and California and to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals and ensure a seamless transition.
We are making good progress and have secured for approvals from the DOJ SEC and the State of Texas.
We expect to close a deal at the end of the first quarter of 2016.
As we prepare to divest these properties we are focused on reducing our shared cost structure post transaction.
In addition we will also take this opportunity to significantly reduce the broader cost structure of the entire Wireline business.
Let's turn to Slide 10 and cover Enterprise and wholesale as well as the Wireline segment in total.
In the Enterprise space we continue to work through secular and economic challenges.
In the third quarter global Enterprise revenue declined 4.9% and on a constant currency basis was down about 3%.
In our global wholesale business revenues declined 5.1% in the third quarter.
In both businesses we continue to see similar trends impacting growth with secular declines in legacy transport revenue and competitive price compression in other services.
Total operating revenues for the entire Wireline segment were down 2.3% in the quarter.
The segment EBITDA margin was 23.5% up 50 basis points and on a year-to-date basis expanded 20 basis points to 23.2%.
As we have consistently stated we are very focused on expanding margins and improving the profitability of the Wireline segment.
We are committed to reducing our cost structure while maintaining strong customer satisfaction.
We have achieved savings from restructuring our network and service provisioning and are seeing improvements in productivity.
We will continue to reengineer our work processes to improve efficiency and reduce costs with some of the future savings depending on timing and the outcome of our current labor negotiations.
Capital spending in the Wireline was $1.2 billion in the third quarter and totaled $3.4 billion year-to-date down 18.6%.
Let's move next to our summary slide.
Throughout 2015 we have executed on the fundamentals of the business growing high value customers and delivering strong financial and operating results and generating free cash flows.
We have also continued to consistently invest in our networks and platforms to position us for the future growth.
Our year-to-date consolidated revenue growth was 3.3% after adjusting for the inclusion of AOL this quarter and the sale of the public sector business in 2014.
On the same basis we continue to expect revenue growth of at least 3% for the full year 2015.
Our adjusted EBITDA was up 6.4% with margin expansion of 80 basis points to 36.6%.
Excluding the Tower proceeds cash flows from operations were up about 13% year-to-date and free cash flow totaled $13.5 billion.
We have added 3 million net postpaid Wireless subscribers including total phone net adds of 613 000.
Our new customer growth is high quality with 2.4 million new 4G smartphone customers and 2.5 million new 4G tablets.
We have also improved the quality of our postpaid base through upgrades and effective customer retention and have approximately 10 million more 4G smartphone customers than we did at the beginning of this year.
In FiOS broadband we have added 319 000 new subscribers and 158 000 in FiOS video.
We are very focused on developing new products and services in mobile video and the Internet of things to monetize usage on our networks and expand our revenue mix.
In time these incremental revenues will become more meaningful to our overall top line growth.
The launch of new products like go90 and Hum are examples of where we can monetize usage of the network and platform layers providing more diversity to future revenue streams.
With that I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.
Thank you Fran.
Brad we're now ready to take questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thanks very much.
Good morning Fran.
I think Lowell had talked recently about earnings plateauing in 2016.
Could you just give us a little bit more color about the puts and takes with the Frontier divestiture and – during the end of the first quarter and all the cost cutting.
And then any updates on the [600] auction given that the application rules came out last week? Thank you.
Sure.
Good morning Simon.
Good morning.
So on the comment about the plateau of earnings I guess it is first off let us start with this simple piece which is – some of which is just pure math.
So when you look at this wireless model and converting from a subsidized phone model to an installment plan model as we have been pretty transparent with all of you there was a GAAP accounting that falsely increased the earnings of any company who adopted this model and that we have tried to be as transparent as possible giving you the baseline in the beginning but that became more complicated.
And what we have said going forward is look the better measurement here is not service margin EBITDA but regular EBITDA percent on total revenue because that kind of normalizes out the fact that we are now recording 100% of the revenue upfront for the sale of the equipment rather than a subsidy and then recouping that through service pricing over a period of time.
So when you take that into consideration as you plan out the curve on the installment sale and penetration of the base and I said in my prepared comments our base is – 30% of our base is already on this new pricing.
So as you go into ’16 and you get into that 50% it starts to normalize out the earnings impact that was accelerated through the year 2015.
So I guess what I would say is if you took out the impact of that in ’15 and you look at ’14 to ’15 earnings growth you would probably get a more normal growth trend than what we are delivering in double-digit growth now and then if you put that normalization to the ’16 we actually would have grown earnings but because of the math exercise here you are getting the flatness in that GAAP accounting.
So that is part of it.
The next piece of it is as we have said also with the divestiture of the Frontier properties in the [South] these are classified as properties for discontinued operations.
And for the year we're anticipating that's going to be a $0.13 to $0.14 EPS lift because we discontinue the depreciation of those properties.
So again that has to get normalized out as we go into '16.
So if you looked at it today we are reporting $3.10 to-date.
We have about a $0.11 of benefit.
So it'd be around a $2.99 versus $2.65 of last year.
The next thing is if you look at the divestiture of those properties as we've said these are higher margin properties and since we are more of a centralized cost based company we have a lot of allocations into those three property.
So as I said before when we announced the sale we have this what we call stranded cost that we need to work out of the business since the time that we announced this.
I think we've proven a great track record here at wireline that we know how to do this.
If you look at year-over-year we are down over 8 000 resources because of all the system enhances and profits improvements that we've made through processes and frontline execution on more online billing and so forth.
So we know how to do this and we got about five more months to go but we also have to consider the fact that we're in the middle of a labor negotiation and some of those benefits won't be realized until we come to an agreement with the labor.
So this is more of a timing issue on this one.
We will realize those benefits as you know the last time we entered into a labor negotiation we said that we would incur about $500 million worth of savings over the three years.
And you can see that coming through the EBITDA of wireline.
So I think that's important.
Then of course the last piece of this is as you can see in our results this quarter you're seeing more of a ramp in corporate for the start-up businesses.
So as any start-up business goes you incur losses upfront because you're investing in the product development you're investing in the marketing and the promotional of that new business.
And that's going to be a drag on earnings through '16 because the revenue will not kind of catch up with the cost.
So when you take all that into the consideration that's where low was mentioning and forecasting more of a flat if you will or flat-toe for 2016.
And that's the GAAP -- And just chiming on the update of the 600 megahertz.
As you know application to participate as buyers the FCC did some forward part of the auction and which are expected to be due in January.
And the whole purpose of this was to give the broadcast or is a sense of what the bid would be that they would receive.
And now the broadcast was how that chance to look at that and decide whether they're going to participate or not.
I think one important thing here though too is that after we saw the abuse in the AWS-3 Auction by Dish I think the FCC should learn from this and not give preferences to large corporations award credits or set aside and the government shouldn't be in the business of picking winners and losers.
Let the consumer do that.
So we'll have to see how the rules play out here but at this point we do plan to participate but we'll see how the rules play out and then we will go from there.
Thank you.
Brad we're ready for the next question please.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from David Barden of Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Hey guys good morning.
Thanks.
Maybe two questions if I could.
Just first on the Fran disclosure about the 22% devices be on EIP plans but 30% of customers being on EIP pricing.
Could you talk about the difference there is that BYOD is that a forward pricing strategy that you are starting to implement? It'll be helpful to understand that.
And then just second on the we unfold the go90 strategy and think about content acquisition.
Now that AT&amp;T and DTV are together is there any thought about revisiting Verizon's historical kind of conversations with the cable industry about maybe joining forces to try to work together on content and distribution and allocation of resources? Thanks.
Hi thanks David.
Good morning.
So on the difference between the 22% on edge and the 30% on pricing obviously if customers have fulfilled their contract over the two year period time under the old subsidized model those customers are free and always have been free to select whatever price plan they want and we are allowing them to move to the new pricing because they fulfilled their contractual obligation under the old pricing.
So in essence they are bringing their previous device into the new pricing.
So that’s part of it.
The other thing is that there is a little bit of forward pricing here with current customers and as we talked before on calls we have pretty diligent exercise where we go through our customer base and we attack the high value customers who we think will have a higher propensity to churn from us.
So there is some proactiveness there.
And I think you're seeing that come through on the reduction of churn through this year of 4 basis points to 7 basis points.
And I would anticipate the going into the fourth quarter you should consider us to be within that improvement on a year-over-year basis.
Now given the fourth quarter is always a generally a higher churn quarter as it was last year but we do believe that we will see a consistent improvement as we have seen through the beginning of this year.
As far as go90 look go90 is a very different product set.
It's mobile first a social entertainment platform.
Let me just talk a little bit about where we are here.
But this really is just a totally different perspective than linear TV and content deals.
And we know how to do that and we've been doing that for 10 years with files.
But this is a very different platform.
Keep in mind we are 20 days into this.
We actually haven't done any advertising or promotion activity around this product.
So for early stages we are seeing very good platform stability.
We are seeing very encouraging feedback.
And of course we're looking at some very specific matrix here of what's the viewership how many times do people revisit the site and what do the new shows capture.
And if you haven't downloaded I would encourage you to because we now have over 10 000 assets in the product.
We have two exclusive episodes; one is called Top Five Live and the other one is called Betch - "B-E-T-C-H".
And these are really starting to take form with the Millennials.
And we are starting to see a number of encouraging revisits to the platform on a daily basis to see what Top Five Live and Betch are doing.
And we have 48 more exclusive content deals coming that will be on this product before the end of the quarter.
So go90 right now we are seeing very good upstage but again we really haven't started to advertise the platform.
We do have entertainers tweeting the platform who are part of the platform like Kanye West on his live show.
So there is a lot happening in this platform.
So we are really pleased with the initial stages but this is very different than the legacy linear TV model.
So I will stop there David.
Thanks for the question.
Thanks Fran.
Brad next question please.
Our next question is from Phil Cusick of JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hey guys thanks.
Fran can you talk about the Custom TV effort and what you are seeing overall in the video landscape.
It seems like the 42 000 this quarter was a little bit weaker than we would have thought given seasonality.
I wonder if you are still having any advertising issues or if this is just the way we should look at it going forward? Thanks.
Thanks Phil good morning.
The TV environment this past quarter was extremely competitive and continues to be.
Custom TV though actually within the portfolio is performing similar to what it did last quarter with the number of people choosing the product and the number of migrations that we have within the product.
And of course as we said this is going to put a little bit of topline pressure on FiOS growth.
And the reason for that is the way I have to think about this is the new bundle is about $20 less than the average normal FiOS bundle.
But the offset to that is we are also getting an incremental benefit in the content cost.
So we're seeing an incremental margin gain by people selecting the Custom TV package.
I think what is more important though is the consumers are speaking to the total linear environment that says "they only want to pay for what they want to watch and they don't want to pay for 300 channels when they watch only about 10% of those channels." So I think that’s more important is to where the ecosystem is going.
We will continue to support Custom TV.
As we said we know we have some disputes that we're working through but Custom TV right now is doing what we thought it would do.
As far as the growth perspective I think if you look at last quarter with the negative 625 000 negative adds we continue to be positive so we are gaining share but look the environment is Millennials don't want linear TV content.
They are disconnecting their cable for just internet content and mobile content and that goes to why we are launching go90 with the mobile first perspective and that’s attacking that entire segment that FiOS brand does not attack today through our linear TV product.
Thanks.
When you reported the second quarter you talked about Custom TV most people were taking only the basic sort of 55.
Have you seen that evolve upward a little bit as we're seeing for both season and other things starting to form? Phil no we haven't.
The basic package is the basic and then you get two packages included.
Now of course you have a selection of those package among seven.
Some people are selecting the sports others are selecting the live like Hallmark station and those things.
Yes generally sports fanatics generally take a premium package.
So Custom TV more is for those folks who really aren't interested in sports and are taking less of the sports channels but it's more or less the same trend not seeing any difference there.
Got it.
Thanks Fran.
Brad next question please.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from John Hodulik of UBS.
Your line is open.
Good day thanks.
Back to wireless Fran if we could.
You had a handset upgrade rate of about 7% which is down slightly on a year-over-year basis.
But there is a much better comp coming up in the fourth quarter of '14.
We did almost 10%.
Do you expect a bigger sort of year-to-year decline in the fourth quarter here and if so what kind of impact could that have on the margins? And then if you could give us a sense for how you expect given the trends you are seeing with installment plans '16 over '15 would be great.
Thanks.
Thanks John.
So on the handset piece for upgrades.
What I would say is we are anticipating a little less volume than last year because of the total iconic launch of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus.
But this quarter we are still anticipating a fairly heavy volume quarter as every fourth quarter is but I would anticipate a little less than what we saw last year.
So I would think that upgrades would be a little less than what we ran last year.
As far as what we see from a take rate on installments going into 2016 look at this point we are guiding to 17% in the fourth quarter.
We are now 100% at the point of sale with Edge only.
Of course we have an exemption for current customers who are on the subsidy model who can opt to take a new subsidized handset.
So I'll have to see how that works going into 2016 and that may keep us around that 70% to 75% take rate but it's too early to tell.
So I don't really want to give guardianship on what the take rate will be.
Let’s see how we come out the fourth quarter I will readdress that in the first quarter.
Great.
Thanks Fran.
Brad next question please.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mike McCormack of Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Hi guys thanks.
Fran just thinking about the uptake of factoring -- of EIP and looking into next year you have got two competitors getting very aggressive on leasing.
Just a sense for your thoughts on leasing as a structure and then secondly the prepaid declined is that just sort of defocusing on that segment or you are actually seeing some wins on the postpaid side from the prepaid base? Thanks.
Yes thanks Mike.
So on the EIP yes we have gone to the full Edge product.
As I've said before I am not interested in a rental program.
We are not seeing any impact from those programs from the competitors in our base and I think our results speak to that this quarter and I think they'll speak to that in the fourth quarter as well.
I think what you'll see is if you speak to the rating agencies they are becoming very concerned with the balance sheet risk of some of the industry on putting up rental phones on the balance sheet with what the residual value will be with those rental phones.
So again as I have said before that’s not something that we are entertaining at this point.
Again I never say "never say never" but that is not something that I would have an appetite for.
On the prepaid decline I think look generally if you look at how postpaid and the price points of postpaid and I've talked about this before.
Postpaid pricing is more or less mirroring what prepaid pricing was in the past.
And we are seeing some migration of our prepaid product customers to postpaid but it's more probably limited than some others because of our intense credit models and you have to pass the credit in order to become postpaid.
But there is a segment of prepaid customers that are good credit customers that now that the price point is closer to affordability for them on postpaid they are moving into the postpaid product.
So I don't really look into the prepaid product decline as a problem set for us at this point.
We generally really compete with prepaid in our reseller model with companies like TracFone and StraightTalk and Straight Wireless and that’s where we really drive home the lower-end product without our brand connected to it.
So and that although we don't disclose much in reseller any more that segment continues to perform well for us.
I guess Fran on the residual risk because that’s just you think secondary market can become softer or new devices being launched or is it just an overall view on risk in the balance sheet? If you look at some of the programs you have balloon payments that are doing 18 months.
18 months from now the market is changing.
There is a lot of Apple product hitting in the Chinese market now where China was one of the larger areas where we sold off used handsets.
So as these markets get heavily penetrated with newer product that could impact the residual value of these phones going forward.
So it's just a risk that it's going to have to be handled by the industry under that program and at this point that’s not something we want to deal with.
Great.
Thanks Fran.
Brad next question please.
Our next question comes from Michael Rollins of Citi Investment Research.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Just two if I could.
First Fran could you talk a little bit more about what the mobile data usage looks like.
You talked about the mix of data that's on 4G LTE I am kind of curious how much does the customer use how much is the data growing year-over-year in that metric set; you can help on that basis.
And then secondly you described that the service revenue plus installment billing was 1.2% up year-over-year.
As you're making the transition to these new great plans the unbundled installment plans what’s the risk does that goes lower before it goes higher? Thanks.
Thanks Michael.
On mobile data what we are seeing right now is that the trend across our entire network of 75% growth year-over-year obviously some of the metropolitan areas like in New York and Chicago are higher than that.
I mean Chicago we said is up 75% but New York San Francisco some others are higher than that in growth rate.
So it depends where you are at and then we have markets obviously lower than that because of more of rural areas.
So that’s generally what we are seeing in the network right now.
On the installment sale billings of 1.2% yes I do believe that will go lower as we make this transition into 50% of our base for installment sale.
So the trend of service revenue and the installment billings plus the service is going to continue to decline until we get into that middle part latter part of 2016 where the curve will reverse and then you will start to see that flattening out and start trending back up just like the math would dictate.
And could that go negative? I am sorry? Go ahead.
Could it actually be a rate of decline during this transition? No.
I think what you are seeing now if you look at the previous quarters it's pretty trending about the same.
I don't think it's going to accelerate.
Thank you.
Brad next question please.
Certainly.
Our next question is from Amir Rozwadowski of Barclays.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much.
And good morning Fran and Mike.
Good morning Amir.
I was wondering if we might be able to discuss a bit more about your midterm thoughts on the competitive landscape.
For some time of course we've seen the impact of increased competition in the market with respect how devices are sold pricing of services etcetera.
And at least from our end the most draconian fears have yet to be realized.
As we head into 2016 both of the comparatively smaller carrier seem to be positioning themselves to be levering up here albeit one of them synthetically through the lease company.
With that in mind are we potentially entering a period in which the focus may increasingly shift towards increased returns versus one that’s overly emphasizing competition and if so how do you believe you can fare in that type of environment? Amir first of all let’s set the stage that the wireless industry has always been very competitive.
And even through all this competitiveness the industry themselves continues to grow even though everyone thinks that the industry is slowing we continue to have net adds overall.
Tablets become a bigger piece data continues to grow.
So the industry overall although very competitive continues to grow despite all that.
Our focus has always been competing on a network quality reliability and simplicity.
And that’s how we have been winning for the past 18 years and that’s our focus going forward.
And you can see that with our new brand campaign better matters because what we believe with our brand in our campaign is we're trying to send the message that although some say video and data are not as important and people are willing to get disrupted I think if you talk to the Millennials the thing that frustrates them the most is the spinning wheel when they want to watch a video or download something.
So our focus on our brand is better does matter.
We have the best network we are the most reliable and we become a more simple company to deal with our simplicity of pricing.
So that’s where we look to compete.
I think the fourth quarter will be a competitive quarter as it always is every year.
I think you're going to see promotions in the marketplace and this industry is going compete as we always have.
But I think our differentiation is how we differentiated ourselves through this whole entire process of installment sale and now rental and as I said before the rental programs don't seem to be having any impact or appeasing to our customers.
So I would say that we will continue to do the same.
As far as how the industry changes I think what you are seeing from us is we're going in a different direction with our go90 launch.
We are appealing to our Millennial population with our network and our products and I do think that as we said before you can only price down so much and then you need to generate cash  And I think as you said some have to start generating cash in order to invest in their networks to support the growth of the data or else things are going to start to fall apart.
And I think you are starting to see some of that in some of the national RootMetrics drive test where some of the networks are starting to feel pressure and starting to fall down in the ranking.
We continue to invest heavily in our networks as I said before.
You should continue to see us as a flat overall capital company but wireless continues to trend up and that’s important for the product set that we are launching.
So I do think there will be more focus on returns and profitability and that’s good for the industry.
Thank you very much for everything and then for color.
Brad next question.
Our next question comes from Brett Feldman of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
I then go back to the question I think David asked earlier about sort of your relationship with the cable industry.
And one of the things that has come up is the MVNO agreement that you guys signed several years ago and because it was signed several years ago it's perceived to be maybe a little outdated.
And so I am just curious do you still feel comfortable with the agreement the way it structured.
Do you feel like it's enabling the cable companies to do whatever they want? And are you open-minded if they approached you about redoing it if they felt that the industry has evolved to a point where the agreement was stale and was not likely to create value for either you or for them? Well I think that you stated Brett.
We have an existing MVNO agreement and we were informed that they are going to execute on that agreement and the agreement is the agreement.
I am not going to get into whether we're discussing of revising the agreement or the terms and conditions of that since it's under NDNA and we will see how this plays out.
Obviously the industry is moving.
Cable is going to do what they are going to do and we're going to do what we're going to do.
I think that again though what I would say is we truly believe that Wi-Fi is a complementary wireless network if you will with LTE and we don't believe one replaces the other.
Just like when we launched LTE we said "look it's not going to replace Wi-Fi it's not going to replace broadband into the home." Similar Wi-Fi is not going to replace LTE.
So I think that’s where it stands right now so I really won't interject any more around the MVNO.
All right.
Just a quick follow-up since you mentioned Wi-Fi and I was thinking about small sales.
I think you had earlier said you are looking to deploy unlicensed LTE maybe in trial phases I think either this year or early next year.
Where are you on that? We are right on course.
We are actually testing in the labs now and we are looking to deploy some time in 2016.
And again the unlicensed LTE is a great piece for us to increase our capacity.
And again another differentiator between LTE and Wi-Fi is LTE is a fully managed network Wi-Fi is not.
So when you start to load up Wi-Fi that’s why you start to see real degradation in service whereas with LTE and then overlaying unlicensed LTE.
We can dynamically increase capacity when we see that that capacity needing increase.
So it's going to be a very viable tool for us in order to increase capacity without deploying a lot of dollars.
Great.
Thanks for taking the question.
Brad next question please.
Your next question comes from Craig Moffett of Moffett Nathanson.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Two questions if I could.
First you talked a little bit about the upcoming options.
I wonder if you could just talk a little bit about how you think about different spectrum bands at this point with the options I guess out there being 600 MHz from the option versus 2.5 GHz from Sprint that maybe per sale versus Charlie Ergen's spectrum that's mostly in the 2.1 range.
And then if you could also just talk about on the wireline side.
How do you think about your commitment to the wireline business in FiOS going forward with LTE coming into the New York market? Are you divesting some properties outside of the Northeast is that still a meaningful focus or would you look to reduce your exposure to wireline if you had the opportunity? Thanks I appreciate it.
On the auction and the spectrum bands it's a good question because the current auction is 600 MHz band and as you know we deployed LTE contagiously on 700 MHz that doesn't mean that we can't operate with 600 MHz but 600 MHz and 700 MHz don't play well together.
There is a lot of interference.
So where we have 700 MHz there will be a lot of work to deploy a 600 MHz spectrum.
But there is areas where we could use lower band spectrum but it's probably not the top priority.
We like the higher band like AWS.
We've said that all along that Charlie is sitting on very good spectrum.
It's very good for capacity which is why we spent $10.4 billion in the auction.
But we also can do things like we've done in Chicago and New York where we felt the license cost was way too high and we instead decided to deploy small cells and get capacity in a more reasonable cheaper way if you will.
Now some of this spectrum will come back to market.
We don't know how the FCC will treat that yet.
So we'll just wait and see but higher frequency spectrum is capacity and that’s really what we need at this point in time.
As far as the wireline commitment look I think with the three divestitures in the South they were more or less footprints which were not contiguous to anything else.
Most of that property was copper not fiber.
So when we look at the East Coast it's a much different footprint.
I mean we'll have covered over 70% of the footprint with our FiOS product.
We are very committed to it.
We are investing over $4 billion into the wireline company a year.
So that shows our commitment from a capital investment perspective.
We've already passed 20 million homes when we committed to originally 18 million.
So we are very committed to the FiOS product.
It goes hand in hand with our wireless strategy.
And I think if you've asked anybody like you know tease if you are going to come in and compete for Fiber Into The Home you certainly would either pick the East coast or the West coast and they've started with Cablevision in East coast.
So we have a very viable footprint and we are committed to that.
Now again as I've always said "you never say never" and of course Lowell and I are always open to new options and we always keep our eyes open for that.
But at this point we are very committed to the wireline business.
Thank you Fran.
Brad we have time for one more question.
If you can please see that up.
Certainly.
Your last question comes from Jonathan Atkin of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
So my question is on enterprise.
And I just wondered if you're seeing any notable changes in competitive behavior versus other carriers.
And then just on wireless on the network side if you could just remind us the approximate timeline for AWS-3 deployment.
And then when would the network be ready for LTE-only phones to be sold at retail? Thanks.
Okay great.
Hi.
So Jonathan on the enterprise piece I guess what I would say is we are seeing more or less the same there has really been no change.
I think there is a lot of competition.
There is a lot of price compression continuing in the IP space as we said before the strategic side around security and data centers.
But even within the data center space now there is an awful lot of competition happening with price compression.
So I think what you are seeing is the trend that we think will continue as we revamp the portfolio if you will and come into more of whether we're going to willing to compete.
So I think you are just going to see more of the same here.
As far as the wireless network and deployment of AWS you were looking at probably in the 17 18 timeframe.
With that similar to where LTE you would be for starting in 16 and then of course so that will continue to deploy there.
And then on the phone-only where we would only get a LTE only handset probably more to the end of 2016 as where we're looking to deploy in LTE-only handset.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay Brad.
That takes us to the end of the questions but I would like to turn the call back on to Fran to close.
All right.
Thanks Mike.
I just like to close with a few key points.
So through the first nine months we have solidly executed on our fundamentals delivering quality customer growth and strong financial results while positioning the business for the future and returning value to shareholders.
This execution has generated strong cash flows enabling us to consistently invest in our networks platforms future growth and innovation.
In addition we have returned value to shareholders and maintained a strong balance sheet keeping us on track with our leveraging plans.
As I highlighted earlier we have returned more than $11 billion to-date through dividends and a $5 billion accelerated share repurchase program.
In September our Board of Directors again re-innervated their confidence with a 2.7% dividend increase; making this the ninth consecutive year of a dividend increase.
We look forward to maintaining our positive momentum in the fourth quarter as we execute our strategy launch new products and services like go90 positioning ourselves for future growth and creating value for customers and shareholders.
Thank you again for joining Verizon today.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation.
To ask a question press star one on your touchtone phone.
If at any point your question has been answered you may remove yourself by pressing star Q.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Michael Stefanski Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Thanks Carlos.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings conference call.
This is Mike Stefanski and I’m here with our Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
As a reminder our earnings release financial and operating information the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on the investor relations website.
A replay and a transcript of this call will also be made available on our website.
Before we get started I’d like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement on Slide 2.
Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties.
Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon’s filings with the SEC which are available on our website.
This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in the financial materials we have posted on our website.
The quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.
Before Fran goes through our results I’d like to highlight a few items.
For the fourth quarter of 2015 we reported earnings of $1.32 per share on a GAAP basis.
These reported results include a few non-operational items that I’d like to highlight.
Our year-end mark-to-market adjustment of pension and OPEB liabilities included a pre-tax $3.2 billion credit which decreased our pension and OPEB liability.
This adjustment which was primarily non-cash was caused by an increase in the discount rate the adoption of new mortality assumption tables and the execution of a new prescription drug contract during 2015.
We also incurred pre-tax expenses of $613 million primarily related to severance costs under our existing separation plans.
On an after-tax basis these two items amounted to a net $1.6 billion or $0.40 per share.
Additionally we recognized a pre-tax gain of $254 million on a spectrum license transaction.
On an after-tax basis this gain amounted to $158 million or $0.04 per share.
Excluding the effect of these non-operational items adjusted earnings per share was $0.89 in the fourth quarter compared with $0.71 a year ago or a growth of 25.4%.
For the full year adjusted earnings per share was $3.99 compared with $3.35 in 2014 an increase of 19.1%.
On a non-GAAP illustrative basis if we assumed 100% wireless ownership for all of 2014 the adjusted earnings per share growth rate was 16.7% year-over-year.
As a reminder included in our wire line results are the operations from the three states that we agreed to sell to Frontier which we expect to close at the end of the first quarter of 2016.
We recognized a benefit of $0.13 per share for the full year due to these assets being classified as held for sale.
Additionally the operations of AOL have been included in our consolidated results since third quarter of 2015.
Prior period results do not include AOL.
With that I will now turn the call over to Fran.
Thanks Mike.
Good morning everyone and happy new year.
Entering 2016 we are confident in our three-tier strategy of leading at the network connectivity level in the markets we serve developing new business models through global platforms in video and Internet of Things and creating certain opportunities and applications and content for incremental monetization.
Our execution model enables us to compete effectively in every market condition and build our capabilities for future growth and profitability as an innovator in the digital-first mobile world in 2016 and beyond.
As we reflect back on 2015 we demonstrated a balanced performance in a dynamic competitive environment.
We delivered quality growth and strong financial performance in our operating segments while improving our strategic position and returning value to our shareholders.
Overall our full-year adjusted earnings per share grew 19.1% and free cash flow increased to $18.8 billion excluding tower proceeds which enabled us to invest and return value to our shareholders.
Fundamental execution on our strategies is the priority within our segments.
In wireless we posted another quarter of quality connections growth and profitability with sequential improvements in postpaid growth and net adds as well as net phone additions.
Postpaid net adds totaled 1.5 million for the quarter and 4.5 million for the year excluding wholesale and Internet of Things connections.
Net phone additions were 449 000 for the quarter and 1.1 million for the year.
Customer retention was also a highlight with postpaid churn of 0.96% down 18 basis points for the quarter.
For the year churn was also 0.96% which improved 8 basis points from prior year.
Total wireless revenue grew 4.6% for the year and our EBITDA margin expanded.
Our wire line quarterly results were highlighted by Fios revenue and customer growth.
Additional enterprise and wholesale revenue slightly improved sequentially while we reduced costs.
Overall our full year wire line segment EBITDA margin of 23.5% was up 30 basis points.
We remain committed to consistently investing in our networks for the future.
Our 2015 investments have positioned us for growth and allow us to maintain our network leadership position as consistently acknowledged by third parties.
Wireless densification enables us to add capacity to manage the growing trends of video consumption and the demand required for the Internet of Things as well as prepositioning us for the future 5G technology.
We invested in AWS-3 spectrum during the year acquiring spectrum covering 480 markets for a total value of $10.4 billion.
We continued to execute a disciplined capital allocation model with the priority to invest for the future.
We are committed to returning value to shareholders and maintaining a strong balance sheet.
During 2015 we announced the divestiture of certain wire line properties to Frontier and intend to use the proceeds to pay down debt.
We monetized the majority of our remaining cell towers and we were able to return value to shareholders in the form of an accelerated share repurchase of $5 billion.
We have returned more than $13.5 billion to shareholders during the year including dividends.
As we disclosed in September our board of directors approved a 2.7% dividend increase which raises our annualized dividend to $2.26 per share.
This was the ninth consecutive year that our board approved a dividend increase affirming their confidence in the strength of our future cash flows.
We remain committed to returning to our pre-Vodafone transaction credit rating profile in the 2018 to 2019 time frame so overall a strong balanced 2015 which provides operating momentum and lays the foundation for the future.
Now let’s get into fourth quarter and full-year performance in more detail starting with our consolidated results on Slide 5.
Total operating revenue in the fourth quarter was $34.3 billion an increase of 3.2% including revenues from AOL.
We are pleased with AOL’s performance in the fourth quarter which does have some seasonality from advertisers.
For the full year we added $4.5 billion to our top line representing growth of 3.6%.
Excluding AOL which was not part of Verizon a year ago our top line growth was 0.5% for the fourth quarter.
Excluding both AOL and prior period revenues from the public sector business we sold in 2014 the comparable full-year revenue growth rate was 2.6%.
This was below our revenue guidance due to lower wireless phone activations primarily upgrades and a less than projected take rate on our device installment payment program in the fourth quarter.
Historically our consolidated revenues have been primarily driven by growth in both customers and consumption in wireless and Fios.
The change in the wireless commercial model from an equipment subsidy model to a device installment payment model increases the revenue sensitivity to wireless equipment volumes.
We continued to manage through the transition to the device installment model.
We remain committed to our Verizon Lean Six Sigma processes on improving the customer experience while increasing our overall operating and capital efficiencies.
The focus on increasing efficiencies has enabled us to sustain a strong earnings profile as we manage through the revenue transformation in the wireless and wire line segments.
Consolidated adjusted EBITDA totaled $46.6 billion in 2015 an increase of 7.7% and our adjusted EBITDA margin for the full year was 35.4% which expanded 130 basis points from 2014.
Let’s turn now to cash flows and the balance sheet on Slide 6.
In 2015 cash flows from operations totaled $38.9 billion.
This total included just under $2.4 billion of proceeds related to tower monetization transaction which is non-recurring.
Free cash flow for the year excluding the tower proceeds totaled $18.8 billion.
We have been successful in selling selected device installment receivables in the private securitization market to finance the device payment program and manage working capital.
In the fourth quarter we continued to sell device installment receivables and received about $2.7 billion in cash proceeds.
For the full year 2015 we sold a total of $9.4 billion of device installment receivables resulting in total net cash proceeds of $5.9 billion at year-end.
We expect to continue to sell these receivables in 2016.
Given the success of the device payment program high credit quality of our customer base and retention history we are exploring further diversification of funding sources.
Our capital spending was consistent with our guidance of around $17.5 billion to $18 billion for the year.
In total capital expenditures were $5.2 billion in the fourth quarter and $17.8 billion for the full year up 3.4% from 2014.
Our balance sheet is strong and enables the financial flexibility to grow the business.
We ended the year with $110.2 billion of gross debt net debt of $105.7 billion and a ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA of 2.3 times.
Now let’s move into a review of the segments starting with wireless on Slide 7.
In the wireless business revenue growth profitability and cash flows are driven by our high quality retail postpaid customer base.
Total wireless operating revenues grew 1.2% in the quarter to $23.7 billion.
For the full year operating revenues total $91.7 billion representing growth of 4.6%.
Service revenue of $17.2 billion declined 5.6% for the quarter and declined 3.1% for the full year.
Equipment revenue increased to $5.4 billion up 28% for the fourth quarter and grew 54.4% for the full year.
Service revenue plus installment billings increased 1.4% in the fourth quarter and 2% for the full year.
We expect that service revenue growth will continue to be pressured as more of the customer base moves to unsubsidized service pricing and that equipment revenues will grow as the activation rate for device payment plans increases.
The percentage of phone activations on installment plans increased to 67% in the fourth quarter compared with about 58% in the third quarter and about 25% in the fourth quarter of last year.
The fourth quarter take rate accelerated but was below our expectation of 70% which contributed to equipment revenue growth that was lower than expected.
We expect the first quarter take rate for device installment to be above 70%.
During the quarter 7.6 million phones were activated on device installment payment plans.
We have about 25 million device installment phone connections in total representing approximately 29% of our postpaid phone base.
Overall more than 40% of our postpaid phone customers are on an unsubsidized service pricing.
In terms of profitability we generated $9.1 billion of EBITDA in the quarter an increase of 18.9% and approximately $39 billion for the full year an increase of 10.6%.
Our EBITDA service margin increased to 52.9% up from 42% for the fourth quarter.
The more meaningful measurement is EBITDA as a percentage of total wireless revenue which expanded to 38.4% up from 32.6% in the prior year.
For the full year the EBITDA service margin increased to 55.3% up from 48.5% and our EBITDA margin on total wireless revenue was 42.5% up from 40.2% in 2014.
Now let’s turn to Slide 8 and take a closer look at wireless connections growth.
We ended the year with 112.1 million total retail connections excluding wholesale or Internet of Things connections.
Our industry-leading postpaid connections base grew 4.4% to 106.5 million and our prepaid connections totaled 5.6 million.
Postpaid gross additions improved sequentially to 4.6 million for the fourth quarter and to 16.4 million for the full year.
Our disciplined focus on customer retention resulted in improved postpaid churn of 0.96% in the quarter compared with 1.14% a year ago an improvement of 18 basis points.
We are very focused on improving the customer experience starting with the network simplified pricing and better execution in our distribution channels.
We are seeing lower customer service call-in rates which is an indication of improved customer satisfaction.
Our retail postpaid net additions of 1.5 million were high quality with the sequential improvement in the number of 4G smartphone and total phone net adds.
We added 906 000 new 4G smartphones in the quarter which were partially offset by a net decline in 3G smartphones resulting in 713 000 net new smartphones.
Total postpaid phone net adds totaled 449 000 which included a net decline of basic phones.
Tablet net adds totaled 960 000.
Net prepaid devices declined by 157 000.
Full-year net adds of 4.5 million included 3.3 million 4G smartphones and 3.5 million 4G tablets.
The offset to these additions were net declines in basic phones 3G smartphones and non-tablet internet devices.
Let’s now take a look at 4G device activations and upgrades on Slide 9.
Total postpaid device activations totaled 13.4 million in the quarter and 46.6 million for the full year.
Similar to prior quarters about 84% of these activations were phones with tablets accounting for the majority of the other device activations.
We ended the year with 73 million smartphones in total and our smartphone penetration increased to 84% of total phones.
4G devices now comprise more than 79% of our retail postpaid connections base.
Growth in 4G device adoption is driving increased data and video usage.
Approximately 90% of our total data traffic is on the LTE network and overall traffic on LTE has increased by approximately 60% over the prior year.
About 8.4% of our retail postpaid base upgraded to a new device in the fourth quarter which is up sequentially but down from just under 10% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Wireless capital spending totaled $3.3 billion in the quarter and $11.7 billion for the full year up 11.5% from a year ago.
We continued to invest in our 4G LTE network to provide the industry’s highest reliability and position ourselves to capture the efficiencies and capabilities of new technologies.
We are expanding capacity through a number of optimization techniques effectively managing our spectrum and further successfully densifying urban markets.
National studies recognize Verizon as the overall 4G LTE network performance leader leading in categories of overall performance network reliability network speed data performance and call performance.
These are the performance metrics that matter to the customer.
Improving the cost structure of our wireless segment is a priority.
In the fourth quarter we restructured our wireless organization to improve our ability to address the changing needs of our customers faster and more efficiently.
We will continue work on our operating model on an ongoing basis and are confident that we can improve efficiencies as we have done in the past.
Let’s move next to our wire line segment starting with a review of our consumer and mass markets revenue performance on Slide 10.
In the consumer business Fios remains the driver of revenue growth and now represents 80.4% of consumer revenue.
In the fourth quarter consumer revenue grew 2.6% and for the full year grew 3.5%.
Mass markets revenue grew 1.5% in the fourth quarter and 2.4% for the full year.
Small business which is included in mass markets experienced declines of 5.6% in the quarter and 4.6% for the full year.
The change in the consumer revenue growth trajectory continues as customers right-size their existing bundles and core voice services decline.
The demand for Fios broadband only is also increasing while we are continuing to see a decline in linear video demand.
Customers value having a choice in selecting linear video packages.
We had another quarter with custom TV representing about one-third of our Fios video sales.
In the fourth quarter Fios total revenue grew 6.8% with consumer Fios revenue growing at 6.6%.
This growth was driven primarily by broadband subscriber growth and increased penetration of Quantum.
The increasing importance of the internet is evident as customers are requesting higher data speeds.
At the end of the quarter more than 70% of our consumer Fios internet customers subscribe to data speeds of 50 megabits per second or higher and we have shifted our introductory offers to 50 megabits.
We are also seeing an increasing number of customers opting for higher speeds.
As I highlighted earlier Fios internet subscriber growth remains strong in the fourth quarter.
In broadband we added 99 000 net Fios customers for the quarter and 418 000 for the year and now have a total of 7 million Fios internet subscribers representing 41.8% penetration.
Overall net broadband subscribers increased by 5 000 in the quarter.
In linear video we are seeing slowing of market demand.
We added 20 000 net customers in the quarter and 178 000 for the year and now have a total of 5.8 million Fios video subscribers which represents 35.3% penetration.
We are working closely with Frontier on the sale of our wire line properties in Florida Texas and California and expect to close the transaction at the end of the first quarter of 2016.
Let’s turn to Slide 11 and cover enterprise and wholesale as well as the wire line segment in total.
In the Enterprise space secular and economic challenges remain but we are seeing stabilization on a constant currency basis.
In the fourth quarter global enterprise revenue declined 3.3% and on a constant currency basis was down about 2.1%.
For the full year global enterprise revenue declined 5.2% and on a constant currency basis was down about 3.5%.
In our global wholesale business revenues declined 0.2% in the fourth quarter and 3.4% for the full year.
While this quarter improved due to seasonal impacts we remain cautious on the wholesale business and believe that a 4 to 5% decline is more indicative of the underlying trend for the full year 2016.
Total operating revenues for the entire wire line segment improved to a decline of 0.9% in the quarter and down 1.8% for the full year.
The segment EBITDA margin was 24.2% for the quarter and 23.5% for the year up 30 basis points for the quarter and the year.
As we have consistently stated we are very focused on margins and improving the profitability of the wire line segment.
We are committed to reducing our cost structure while maintaining strong customer satisfaction.
We have achieved savings from restructuring our network and service provisioning and are seeing improvements in productivity.
We continue to reengineer our work processes to improve efficiency and reduce costs with some of the future savings depending on timing and the outcome of our current labor negotiations.
As we close on the Frontier sale we are confident that we will offset the stranded cost at a consolidated level and will report more details post-transaction.
Capital spending in wire line was $1.6 billion in the fourth quarter and totaled $5 billion for the year down 12.2% which is consistent with our strategy to reduce our capital spending in the wire line segment.
Let’s move next to Slide 12 for an overview of our three-tier strategy.
During 2015 we delivered strong results and further demonstrated our ability to compete effectively in a dynamic competitive environment as we work through the transition of our wireless base from a subsidized equipment model to a device installment payment model and ramped up new business models to generate incremental revenue growth into the future.
Total revenue grew at 2.6% on a comparable basis and we delivered adjusted EBITDA margin of 35.4% for the year.
For 2015 adjusted earnings per share of $3.99 continued to grow at double-digit rates even if you exclude the depreciation and amortization benefits we realized from the Frontier transaction.
Cash flows from operations increased about 19.1% for the year excluding tower proceeds and free cash flow totaled $18.8 billion.
We delivered more than $13.5 billion of value to our shareholders in the form of an accelerated share repurchase and dividends.
As I discussed in my opening entering 2016 we are confident in our three-tier strategy.
We are executing and delivering strong results today through our operating model by growing and serving our customers while driving cost and capital efficiencies.
We are focused on building on our network strength and laying the foundation for global platforms and applications and content that appeal to all market demographics especially the millennials.
We refreshed our brand image around the Better Matters campaign to increase awareness of our differentiated strategy around the overall customer experience and to appeal to growing markets.
At the network connectivity layer we are investing in our 4G LTE network to provide the industry’s highest reliability and position ourselves to capture the efficiencies and capabilities of its new features.
We are expanding capacity through a number of optimization techniques effectively managing our spectrum and further successfully densifying urban markets.
We opportunistically purchased spectrum during the year to enhance our capacity and position us for the future.
As we have done throughout our history we evaluate spectrum opportunities in a disciplined manner including the upcoming auction secondary markets and future spectrum bands that can be made available.
Leadership in 5G technology is another strategy to extend our premier network position.
We are working with key partners to ensure the aggressive pace of innovation standards development and appropriate requirements for next generation of this wireless technology.
We will begin pilots in several locations throughout the year.
Our networks enable us to grow our business through new ecosystems in video and the Internet of Things at the connectivity platform and solution layers.
We are targeting the millennial opportunity in wireless video beyond connectivity.
The acquisition of AOL and Millennial Media during the year added strong capabilities with global ad tech platforms and content to complement our digital formatting and content distribution assets.
AOL is scaling its consumer and advertiser base globally and it is positioned very well to take advantage of the strong secular growth trends in mobile and video as we saw in the fourth quarter.
We will look to further enhance our media asset capabilities.
AOL’s global capabilities and partnerships are instrumental to our overall long-term global digital media strategy which includes premium content distribution and advertising platforms across all screens.
We believe there is a significant opportunity in using the programmatic platform with the data from the wireless customer base to connect consumers and advertisers in a very targeted and scaled way with relevant and engaging ad experiences while protecting individual privacy.
The Go90 application that we launched in 2015 is one element of this broader video strategy that will allow us to capture and aggregate audience deliver mobile-first content and generate incremental revenue via advertising.
As the application which used our video platform evolves and gains attention you can expect new and exciting content features and functionality like the NBA content we added this past quarter.
We are encouraged by the use of Go90 not only on the Verizon network but off of the Verizon network as well.
During 2016 we expect to share more results around both the Go90 application and our video platform.
Earlier this week we launched FreeBee Data a new sponsored data service.
With FreeBee data Verizon wireless subscribers can enjoy content on their mobile devices free of data charges and it helps businesses drive engagement and revenue by providing a powerful platform for sponsoring mobile content.
As we have been discussing over the past two quarters we are offering custom TV for linear customers to provide more video choice.
We will look to continue to refresh our Fios TV offerings to take advantage of this secular trend of video bundles with options and more choices to address the increasing over-the-top video trend.
We are taking a leadership position in the Internet of Things.
With our experience in networks devices platforms and applications we have created an ecosystem that will foster innovation and scale globally above the connectivity layer to enable incremental growth.
Our network leadership positions us to capitalize on these new opportunities that require both a ubiquitous mobile experience and the capabilities of platforms above the connectivity layer.
We are focused on the telematics and transportation vertical and launched our direct-to-consumer product Hum in the third quarter.
We also announced our Connected City strategy beginning with Savannah and introduced a suite of developer tools ThingSpace to accelerate innovative applications to come to market.
At the recent Consumer Electronics Show the pipeline for mobile Internet of Things capabilities was very prominent.
New revenue streams from the Internet of Things are growing with revenues of approximately $200 million in the quarter and about $690 million for the full year a year-over-year increase of 18%.
Let’s move next to Slide 13 for our 2016 priorities.
Our strategy and priorities remain consistent for 2016.
We will concentrate on growing our quality customer base in both wireless and Fios and build upon customer loyalty by providing the best overall customer experience.
We remain focused on network leadership and developing new ecosystems in video and the Internet of Things by leveraging our ubiquitous network in the United States and scaling our platforms globally.
We are also committed to returning value to our shareholders and maintaining a strong balance sheet in addition to returning to our pre-Vodafone transaction credit rating profile by the 2018-2019 time frame.
As previously stated Verizon expects full-year 2016 adjusted earnings to plateau at a level comparable to our strong full-year 2015 adjusted earnings due to the device installment payment model transition completion of the Frontier transaction and the ramping of new business models in video and Internet of Things.
Additionally we are targeting the following for 2016: a consolidated adjusted EBITDA margin consistent with our full-year 2015 performance; consolidated capital spending between $17.2 billion and $17.7 billion - this includes capital spending of approximately $150 million for the properties sold to Frontier and a minimum pension funding requirement of approximately $550 million.
In terms of income taxes we expect our effective tax rate for financial reporting purposes to be in the range of 35 to 36%.
With that I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.
Fran thank you.
We also recognize that there might have been some delay in posting our materials to our website.
The issue I think is resolved so we appreciate your patience.
Carlos if you can open us up now for questions.
[Operator instructions] Your first question comes from Mr.
David Barden of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead with your question.
Carlos if David’s not there then we can just move on and pick David up next.
Thank you one moment sir.
Can you hear me now? Yes go ahead David.
There you go.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Fran just as a housekeeping item with respect to the notion of a quote-unquote plateau could you kind of band that for people? Are you trying to put a plus or minus 1 or 2% around the $3.99? Are you trying to say $3.99 or better for 2016 just so the Street can kind of get a sense as to where the real midpoint there is? Second obviously we had an extension in bonus tax depreciation last year.
It’s been something you’ve been benefiting from.
Could you kind of scope the size of the benefit you’re going to get this year? And if I could just one last one.
You’ve talked about how cord shaving has been important for the new customers coming into the Fios space.
Could you talk about if at all you’re seeing some kind of transition in the existing base to these skinnier bundles? Thanks.
All right thanks David.
So on earnings per share we started this back I think midyear in 2015 when Lowell and I started to talk about the plateau and the level comparable to 2015 adjusted earnings.
The way to think about this is we ended 2015 at $3.99.
There is $0.13 of depreciation benefit because of the Frontier assets being held for sale so that really is a level set of $3.86.
When we talk about plateauing we’re referring to the $3.99 so when you think about this you’re going from $3.86 from a jump-off point to $3.99 so the way I think about it is we’re actually growing earnings in low single digits from 2015 to 2016 when you make that one-time adjustment so we will grow through the benefit of the deprecation this year.
Some of the reasons for that as I said on the last quarterly call some of this is just math - moving the wireless transformation from the subsidy model to the device payment model and of course the ramping of our new businesses which I’ve been very clear in the beginning.
These are like start-up businesses and as with most start-up businesses you have very large losses in the beginning until you can grow the customer bases and start to generate the profitability.
Moving into the bonus depreciation yes we will get a substantial benefit next year but I want to be clear that you should not anticipate that our cash tax payments will decrease in ’16.
They will actually increase even with this benefit and a piece of that is because the profitability from a pre-tax income perspective will continue to increase.
We’re also still eating through the reversal of prior year bonus depreciations so from a cash tax perspective you should expect our cash tax percentage to continue to increase closer to our effective tax rate.
Now not to the extent of the 35 to 36 guidance that I gave you but it certainly will move from the low 20% we realized in ’15 to the upper 20% in ’16.
On the cord shaving piece as we said in our prepared remarks we are starting to see more and more customers coming into Fios on a broadband-only basis so just a single play strictly with broadband.
As far as our current base goes we see a little bit of trending but not much.
Most customers are depleting the voice side of the product and keeping the broadband and video side of the product at this point.
David hopefully that answers your question.
Let’s move to the next one.
Thanks.
Carlos we’re ready for the next question.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks very much.
Good morning Fran.
You touched briefly on the auction in your commentary.
I know in the past you’ve made some of your interest contingent on some of the rules which we have now.
Maybe you could just think about how we should be thinking about sizing your potential participation what you need here.
There’s been a lot of stories about potential asset sales over the months most recently about data centers.
Perhaps you could just talk about your philosophy now that you’ve done the towers you’re doing the Frontier assets.
Should we expect or are you considering doing other significant asset sales over the coming year or two? Thanks.
Okay thanks Simon.
So on the auction let’s just--I’ll keep this one short on the incentive auction because of a lot of rules around what I can and can’t say at this point.
We will participate in the auction and I’ll leave it at that.
Thinking about spectrum overall I think we have to think about the 600 megahertz which I’ve talked about previously and how that fits to our portfolio.
We think ahead to 5G - as we said we’ll be at the forefront and we are currently at the forefront globally talking about standards.
We will be the first company to roll 5G out in the United States and we’re currently preparing for those field trials.
The other thing I would say about 5G is we would hope that the FCC moves quickly to adopt the rules to facilitate 5G deployment.
Think about 5G - it may not just be about mobility.
It may be about other use cases not just about mobility.
Then when we think about the unlicensed opportunity if you studied the Consumer Electronics Show this past two weeks there were multiple manufacturers who were running side-by-side comparisons of unlicensed if you will LTE or unlicensed spectrum utilized by an LTE carrier right next to WiFi and it absolutely showed no interference which is some of the rhetoric out there.
It actually showed that the comparability is it improves the WiFi performance by having a managed unlicensed within the LTE carrier.
So again this just goes to continuing to work with the FCC and having them see through the release and usage of unlicensed for the LTE carriers.
Then of course we will continue to utilize the secondary market as we do quarter in and quarter out utilizing swaps which we just completed this past quarter.
We’re working on another swap that we’ll complete in the first quarter and also minimal buys in the marketplace with smaller holders.
So that’s how we think about the whole spectrum asset perspective.
On the sale of assets as Lowell and I have continually stated we will always look for opportunities.
The data centers is an exploratory exercise to see if the asset is more valuable inside or outside the portfolio.
I view that asset similar to the way we view towers - is there a way to monetize this asset that contributes value to our shareholders and gives us the capability to move that capital into higher returning assets for Verizon.
There is no decision that has been made.
This is an exploratory and as we explore if the numbers come out like it did on towers then we’ll execute on a transaction.
If it doesn’t then we won’t.
So at this point again we will always look at opportunities to monetize the portfolio to the benefit of our shareholders.
Thank you Simon.
Thank you.
Carlos next question please.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of John Hodulik from UBS.
Your line is now open sir.
Thanks.
Fran I think the churn below 1% was obviously a bright spot for the quarter.
Is that a level that you think you can maintain as you look out into 2016 given the competitive environment? Then you mentioned some continued pressure on the service revenues looking out.
Can you talk a little bit about the components driving that and when you expect to see an inflection in that metric? Thanks.
Sure thanks John.
So one the churn rate if you recall when we sat here a year ago and we entered 2015 we said a concentration of ’15 will be to protect our customer base.
That’s exactly what we executed on throughout 2015 and the execution of that will continue in 2016.
The focus will be customer satisfaction and satisfying our customer base so they stay with us and I think that’s proven through our very low churn rate this fourth quarter even with the rhetoric from some outsiders about how they’re stealing customers.
The churn rate does not reflect that and port outs are down year-over-year.
So we are doing what we said we would do around the loyalty.
Customer satisfaction comes in here around our simplicity and being simple with customers so they understand what they’re getting and this goes to our loyalty base.
On the service revenue side I guess the thing I would say on this is again this is really to math - math of shifting from the subsidy model with higher service revenue to a device payment model where you get a break in service revenue but you pay full price for the handset model.
As we said we are through 40% of our customers.
We’re slightly higher than 40% who are now on that new pricing so you’ve already seen the impact of that.
As I said last call we believe the inflection point will happen at 50% which we believe we will attain midyear.
Coming out of the fourth quarter though we did see a slowdown in the take rate of installment sale but we do believe that that take rate will accelerate back up above 70% for the fourth quarter and we’re going to announce some differences here a shortcoming that will drive some of that behavior towards that.
As you know we continue to allow our current base customers who upgrade to select whether they take device payment or subsidy and what we saw in the fourth quarter was we had a higher percentage of our base stay on the subsidy model which caused pressure on the P&amp;L of wireless because of the subsidy take.
So having said that John I think as we go through the year we’ll be able to give you more clarity here.
The other thing I would ask you to take a look at is the [IARPA] metric which if you look at third quarter it went up by 0.2% and then the fourth quarter went up 0.9% so you’re already starting to see some of the underlying metrics starting to absorb some of the repricing.
So I’ll leave it at that for ’16 but I’ll come back to you as we break through the 50%.
Great thanks Fran.
Next question Carlos.
Thank you.
Our next question will be coming from the line of Phil Cusick from JP Morgan.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys thanks.
So Fran first just following up on John’s question with the current asset mix and not just in ’16 but beyond is this still a business that can grow well above GDP and how far do you think above? Second on custom TV you’ve said in the past that you’re sort of pushing toward your minimums on some of your contracts.
How should we think about that potentially impacting custom TV or do you think you could reopen some of those contracts to let that percent go higher? Thanks.
Okay thanks Phil.
So the answer to the question is yes absolutely and I think we have to go back and start at the beginning on the whole top line growth story.
So first and foremost I think the foundation is our network our strategy in densification the use of fiber.
Fiber is going to be critical with the densification dark fiber.
Ninety-two percent of our cell sites are already fiber-enabled the other 8% are microwave which probably won’t get fiber.
So when you look at it almost 100% of our cell sites are fiber enabled and every small cell 100% of every small cell we deployed is fiber backed.
So this is in preparation of some of the future products and services that we are looking at in conjunction with both what Marnie has under IOT Go90 but also for 5G.
If you look at customer satisfaction this goes to a big component of the low churn and how we start to increase the value to the customer so that they are willing to pay us more for increased value.
The quality base also goes to this.
So when you look at wireless they grew 1.2% here in the fourth quarter.
If you look at volume overall year-over-year gross adds and upgrades were down 1.9 million so if you just do the backwards math on that that’s in excess of a billion dollars of revenue that wasn’t there this year that was there last year.
So when you look at it the foundation of Verizon wireless is still very strong and we believe that we can continue to grow the Verizon wireless revenue streams.
On wire line Fios is still the foundation.
It’s now 80% of the overall wire line revenue.
When you look at what we’re doing broadband the pervasiveness of broadband no one can match our symmetry on the up and downloads so that’s something that we have against our competition.
We are preparing for the over-the-top model.
Custom TV is one of those things that I’ve said yes it has a limited life but you’re going to see us refresh custom TV and continue to what consumers want which is they want choice.
They don’t want to have to pay for bundles that they never use.
Then of course stability of the enterprise business also adds to this.
Then you jump into our growth engines.
If you look at AOL AOL this quarter increased $300 million in revenue sequentially from the third quarter.
It goes to the strength of the advertising model under AOL which is why we bought them.
Now some of that is seasonal but we believe that they will continue to have strong growth into 2016.
Go90 which is still in its beginning stages and I know we’ve seen some external reports on the number of downloads in excess of 2 million but the key to us is not the downloads.
The key is viewership and it’s around content and we will continue to add content that’s favorable to all generations of population.
Obviously we have a lot of content there for millennials but sports and music attain to a lot more than just millennials so we’re attacking all viewership with this product and we’ll have more to say about that probably midyear.
Internet of Things if you walked around CES it’s all about the digital mobile world and we are in best position to capitalize on that with our Smart Cities telematics with the launch of Hum - we started that in the fourth quarter and we’ve already seen that there are certain stores in the United States that can’t keep the product within Verizon wireless.
They’re continually selling out of the product and this is a recurring revenue stream.
If you think about ThingSpace this is really the adjunct to the Consumer Electronics Show where we’ve opened up our platform.
We now have over 4 200 developers working on that platform and that’s just since October 29 of this year.
So yes it was a transition year in ’15.
It will be a transition year in ’16 but I am confident that with the strategies that we are taking that we will absolutely be a GDP growth company post-2016.
Custom TV we talked about that.
We will refresh that here in the short term to be in compliance with the contractual arrangements that we need to be in compliance with.
Thanks Phil.
Is there a hearing that needs to happen at some point this year or a trial? Relating to ESPN? Yes.
Look - this will go its course.
They're a great partner of ours.
We’ll continue to work with them and I’m not going to speak to the actual lawsuit.
Thanks.
Next question Carlos please.
Thank you.
The next question will be coming from Mike McCormack from Jefferies.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys thanks.
Fran maybe just a quick follow-up on the [IARPA] question.
How fast do you think equivalent revenue starts to ramp up here? I guess just thinking about the percentage of those customers making payments versus those that are on non-subsidized plans is that gap--and there’s probably some retention built into that but I assume that gap can close over time? Just your thoughts around that and then just a quick other question regarding towers.
We’ve heard a couple of your competitors sort of downplaying future tower needs and trying to bypass some of that cost.
Just trying to get a sense for what you think as far as your needs for towers goes.
Okay thanks.
So in the [IARPA] keep in mind only 29% of our customers currently today are on a device payment plan so they’re actually taking the installment plan and paying us full price for the equipment but 40% of our customers who fulfilled their subsidy contract have moved over to that pricing so they are getting the discount so we’re absorbing that.
As I’ve said once you get to that 50% you should see that inflection point start to occur and you’re already starting to see some of that in the [IARPA] type metric.
So it’s hard for me to forecast exactly what will happen here but the forecast that I have is at 50% you start to see an inflection point and we’ll talk more about that as we go through the quarters.
As far as towers go look - I mean we continue to build macro towers but at a much slower rate than historically.
Our focus is really around small cells densified antenna systems in-building but keep in mind that each of those small cells in-building and antenna systems all give fiber back to a main macro cell so the macro cells still have an important role in how you deliver traffic into those small cells.
So as far as building and creating new towers that’s at a much slower rate but the importance of the tower is still there.
Great thanks Fran.
Sure.
Carlos next question please.
Thank you.
The next question will be coming from Brett Feldman from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thanks for taking the question.
Fran you had noted had churn in upgrades they were all lower year-on-year.
It seems that across the sector activity levels have been lighter than we might have thought whether it’s churn or gross adds or upgrades.
Why do you think that is? Do you think that this is a temporary factor or do you think it’s the new normal? Really I guess the question is what do you think is going to happen in 2016? Okay thanks Brett.
So look - 2014 was a unique year.
You have a very different form factor come out from Apple which drove a lot of traffic to that iconic device.
You continue to have innovation from Samsung and LG but we didn’t have that huge change in the handset this year that we saw a year ago so that I think affected some of the upgrade model.
But you know when you look at it we still did about 1.5 million more upgrades in the fourth quarter than we did in the third quarter so the volume of upgrades still increased it just wasn’t what it was a year ago.
If you remember I said coming into this way back in the second quarter I said I did not anticipate that the fourth quarter this year would be in similar volume to the fourth quarter of last year but if you go back to the previous years I think you’ll see similar lower volume years and then you’ll have iconic devices come out and it stimulates some usage case there.
So for ’16 it’s too early to tell yet but I would think that we’ll see similar trends that we did in ’15.
Are you seeing any evidence that as customers move to installment plans they actually keep their devices longer? Well for our base it’s too early to tell because the first generation of them are just starting to mature.
Until I get some real factual data on that it’s hard for me to answer.
My own personal opinion here is that if you look at history a third of your customer base upgrades every year.
I don’t see that changing regardless of what plan the customer is on.
Great.
Thanks for taking the question.
Carlos next question please.
Thank you.
The next question will be coming from Mike Rollins from Citigroup.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi thanks for the opportunity.
Just two questions if I could.
First Fran if you could just talk about what Verizon was able to accomplish on cost-cutting in 2015 and how investors should think about that relative size in 2016.
Second as you look across your different business segments are you seeing any changes in the macroeconomic backdrop or a risk of a recession? Thanks.
Okay thanks Mike.
So on the cost cutting look - I think the last three to four years we’ve talked about this and we’re an extremely disciplined corporation as far as costs go.
With the launch of our Verizon Lean Six Sigma program three years ago that continues to maintain momentum.
We took out almost 30 million calls down from a year ago so there’s a lot of progress being made on self-serve.
There’s a lot of progress being made within our logistics system - I mean this year alone we generated working capital benefits from how we handle our phone inventory.
So you saw the wireless restructure this year was the first restructure we had really since the inception of Verizon wireless.
So as we go into ’16 you saw us take that severance charge and I would tell you most of that severance charge was related to headcount that is already completed in the fourth quarter so entering into 2016 we continue on the path that we were on.
We will continue to look at customer satisfaction more self-serve options that reduce the amount of calls that we have to take from customers.
So there is still a lot of work to be done around our cost structure and if you look at wire line as we came into this year Lowell and I said we would improve the profitability of wire line.
That came from all the cost reductions that John and his team achieved.
So we will continue on that path and I feel good about that.
As far as overall economics I’m not really seeing much of anything in the consumer spaces that we drive.
I look at what everybody else looks at and we’ll have to wait to see what 2016 comes out but I’m certainly not going to predict any negativism there.
Thank you.
Carlos next question.
Thank you.
The next question will be coming from Craig Moffett from MoffettNathanson.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning guys.
Two questions if I might.
First on Go90 can you update us a little bit on what the early results are and what learnings you’ve had from Go90? Just given your comments about the roughly flat year-over-year EPS and the impact that Go90 might have on that I think a lot of us have concluded that there’s likely to be something significantly bigger coming this year with respect to marketing and content.
Can you at least give us a timeline for when we might see those kinds of developments on Go90? Sure thanks Craig.
So when I think about the whole portfolio - Go90 Verizon digital media services and AOL obviously we just launched all these products so there’s a start-up.
It was the first fourth quarter that we advertised these types of launches.
You’re going to see that continue through the four quarters of ’16 which was not there in ’15 so there will be pressure from these start-up companies.
Our learnings on Go90 are very simple - we’re looking at how many times individuals revisit the platform in one day and we’re starting to see some positives there where people will come in multiple times during the day and that’s important because that’s what’s viable to the advertising community.
So the whole basis here is we have to ramp viewership.
I will tell you internally we have surpassed what we thought we would have at this point in time.
We have set higher targets for ’16 because we need to build the viewership in a much quicker fashion.
I think what you’re seeing here from AOL is a very strong fourth quarter.
Now there is seasonality to that but as I mentioned I’m looking for them to grow substantially in 2016.
So I think when you put this together I think the top line will start to reflect some of the things that we’re looking for but it will create bottom line pressure.
These will not especially Go90 will not be profitable product probably within a one to two-year horizon right now.
When we launched it we said two to three but it’s probably two years before that will become a profit contributor to the enterprise but it will certainly build on the top line perspective.
Right now we’re focused on viewership not necessarily the profitability of the product.
So I’ll stop there.
As I said we will come in with much more detail probably midyear and start to give you some viewership into exactly some of the results of Go90 and AOL.
And Fran related to that question if I could on AOL now that you’ve had AOL for a while there was some talk - and I think you directly spoke to the possibility of a Yahoo! or something like that are there other assets that now that you’ve had AOL for a while you think make sense to expand that part of your business with? Well look - I think we’ve been pretty open since we acquired AOL.
We said that we would continue to add to that portfolio.
We acquired Millennial which we talked about.
So yes there are things that we continue to look at for fill-ins if you will.
The other one that you brought up it’s intriguing but there’s really nothing to respond to at this point on that.
So look - we will continue to look at all of our options as Lowell and I said.
We will continue to look at opportunities externally and look at opportunities internally and if they make sense for the shareholder then we’ll execute on those opportunities.
Okay thanks Fran.
Okay Carlos time for one last question.
Thank you.
Your last question will be coming from Amir Rozwadowski from Barclays.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you very much.
Fran you had mentioned that you continue to look to monetize your handset receivables.
I think in your prepared remarks you had mentioned that you were looking at other alternatives.
Perhaps you might be able to elaborate.
We’ve obviously seen your competitors look to other means and funding strategies to support their businesses so any thoughts on the potential options you are considering would be most appreciated.
Sure thank you Amir.
So just to refresh we monetized or securitized $9.4 billion of receivables.
We received gross cash of $7.2 billion.
We obviously paid off some of those securitizations so about a $5.9 billion net cash.
So when you think about that we absorbed about $3.5 billion within our working capital this year from the switch to the device payment model.
I will tell you that we have been talking to the rating agencies about different types of financing and I will probably leave it at that at this point.
But we will be looking at potential public markets as well as private markets but we will stay with the securitization model as well.
So we’re just looking at very different alternatives to support the program going forward because we do believe it will continue to grow in 2016.
More to say on that when we come to a conclusion on that one Amir.
And then if I may just one follow-up.
You folks seem to be taking the lead with discussing a number of new bandwidth enhancing technologies and you had alluded to this sort of on your prepared remarks around 5G developments and unlicensed spectrum.
How should we think about your ability to bolster the carrier’s capacity moving forward utilizing these types of developments and ultimately do you believe there is a path to improving your capacity without actually having to broadly expand your spectrum portfolio at this point? The answer to the question is yes.
If you look at some of the small cell technology and also some of the technology that can be utilized at the cell site I know there’s a fancy name for it but I’m not the engineer here but it gives you the capability to be able to tilt antennas and turn antennas to where the capacity is.
So if you think about football game Sundays and college games we have the capability to utilize our current resources to increase capacity without any spectrum capacity.
So there is a number of technologies that are coming.
Obviously when we launched 4G we said it would be five times more efficient than 3G.
5G is too early but my suspicion is that we’re going to see some similar benefits there from a capacity standpoint which is one of the benefits of 5G.
So yes I think that if you look at spectrum we are in a very very good spectrum holding as we said with all my other comments around spectrum and how we utilize unlicensed along with what we bought in AWS and the repositioning of what we currently have on 3G over to 4G.
So utilizing all of these items we feel that we are in very very good shape from a capacity standpoint.
Thank you very much for the incremental color.
Okay thank you for your questions.
Before we end the call I’ll just turn it back to Fran for a few remarks.
Okay thanks Mike.
So look - 2015 was a year of significant change at Verizon and even with all that change we delivered a strong financial year continued to invest in growing our customer base invested in our networks developed and expanded new businesses and returned value to our shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchase.
2016 will continue what we started in 2015.
We will focus on execution and growth with our three-tier strategy and heritage.
We will continue to build on a strong network and customer foundation.
With our foundation we will compete effectively in this dynamic marketplace.
We will bring new products and services to market and continue to be the leader in the digital first mobile world.
We look forward to maintaining our positive momentum to create value for our customers and our shareholders and I’d like to thank you for joining Verizon today.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services.
You may now disconnect.