Good morning.
My name is Celeste and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Wells Fargo First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn today's call over to Jim Rowe Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Celeste and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf; and CFO Tim Sloan will review first quarter results and answer your questions.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that our first quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website.
I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call and that those forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today and the earnings release and quarterly supplement included as exhibits.
In addition some of the discussion today about the company's performance will include references to non-GAAP financial measures.
Information about those measures including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can be found in our SEC filings and in the earnings release and quarterly supplement available on our website at wellsfargo.com.
I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf.
Thank you Jim and good morning and thanks for joining the call and your interest in Wells Fargo.
We're extremely pleased with the performance of the company in the first quarter with record earnings of $3.8 billion up 48% from a year ago.
Each of our business segments contributed to the overall profitability and the value of our diversified model was never more evident.
We generated broad-base growth across our business segments including revenue growth in businesses as diverse as commercial and corporate banking investment banking commercial real estate international banking wealth management brokerage auto dealer services merchant and payroll services.
We also achieved significant improvement in credit quality during the quarter and here too our improvement was broad based across our portfolios.
These strong business results enabled us to continue to grow capital internally producing an estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under current Basel III capital proposals of 7.2%.
We're extremely pleased that we're able to reward our loyal shareholders by increasing our quarterly dividend rate by reinstating our stock repurchase program and by calling $3.2 billion in Trust Preferred Securities.
And as we just announced today our board authorized a second quarter dividend of $0.12 per share.
As I have said many times our merger with Wachovia is exceeding our own high expectations and has created in our view the most powerful platform in the industry.
We completed the conversion of banking stores in Connecticut New Jersey Delaware and New York in the first quarter.
And late last week we completed the Pennsylvania integration.
Including Pennsylvania 74% of our banking customers are now on a single system.
We've had positive customer response to the new store design and enhanced product offering while continuing to provide the same focus on providing excellent customer service.
We are successfully meeting the financial needs of our customers throughout the East as evidenced by our cross sell now reaching 5.22 products per household up from 5.02 just a year ago.
Checking accounts in North Carolina grew by 8.5% and in Florida by 12%.
Sales of credit cards more than doubled in the East from a year ago.
This success will help drive revenue growth for years to come as we continue to deepen the relationships of our existing customers and grow market share.
The steady progress in consolidating our company across the nation is coming at a time of transition for our industry.
Two changes that have been top of mind for investors are the fate of debit interchange revenue as part of Dodd-Frank and the recent regulatory and legal actions related to the mortgage servicing and foreclosures.
Regarding debit interchange we believe lawmakers should take the necessary time to better understand the direct and indirect consequences of the proposed reduction in debit interchange fees on consumers merchants and banks.
Banks should be fairly compensated for the value that debit cards provide for merchants and the convenience they offer consumers.
Government price controls that wouldn't even enable banks to cover the cost of providing the service make no sense particularly for consumers.
We are hopeful that congress will do the right thing which is to delay the scheduled implementation until these issues are addressed.
As you are aware federal banking regulators recently issued consent orders regarding foreclosure policies and practices.
We take this issue seriously and are committed to complying with those orders.
In addition Wells Fargo supports the idea of national servicing standards suggested by the regulators which we hope will provide greater clarity for customers servicers and investors.
We are not perfect but Wells Fargo has been and always will be committed to doing the right thing for our customers and our country.
We remain dedicated to helping our at-risk customers as evidenced by our over 665 000 active trial and completed modifications we've done since the beginning of 2009.
Our outreach efforts continue to grow as we have now conducted 22 of our home preservation workshops across the country and we plan to hold twice as many this year as we did last year.
We have met with over 20 000 customers face-to-face at these events and this effort has helped us complete almost twice as many modifications for customers as foreclosures since 2009.
We have been working with our regulators for an extended period on improving our servicing practices and we’ve already begun instituting meaningful changes to our processes.
Last summer we adopted a single point-of-contact strategy to help customers seeking loan modifications.
In the fourth quarter we established a uniform foreclosure affidavit for each judicial state subject to local rules.
So we have already started making some of the operational changes and incurring some of the costs that will result from the expanded servicing responsibilities outlined in the consent order.
While we continue to focus on helping our customers our first quarter results demonstrate that we are off to a great start in 2011.
The rest of the year holds additional opportunities as we work to convert the remaining Wachovia banking stores in the East focus on improving our efficiency invest our liquid assets wisely and continue to lend to our commercial and consumer customers.
At the same time we continue to reduce our exposure to higher risk portfolios benefit from improved credit quality and build capital internally.
Now let me turn this over to our CFO Tim Sloan.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
My remarks will follow the slide presentation included in the quarterly supplement available on the Investor Relations section of the Wells Fargo website.
As you have seen from our press release today we had a very strong quarter.
Our record earnings were driven by continued improvement in credit quality higher sales and deposit growth and lower expenses.
These results generated strong returns with our return on asset increasing to 1.23% the highest in three years and our ROE up 103 basis points from the fourth quarter to 11.98%.
Liquidity remained very strong including cash and fed funds' balances up $13.3 billion from the fourth quarter.
And we ended the quarter with our capital ratios at record highs including our 7.2% Tier 1 common ratio estimate under current Basel III capital proposals.
I'm going to highlight the drivers behind these strong results on the call today.
Moving to Slide 3.
Our first quarter EPS was $0.67 our highest quarterly EPS since the merger.
This ties our previous record of $0.67 in the second quarter of 2007 when we had approximately 40% fewer diluted shares outstanding.
Revenue in the first quarter of $20.3 billion was down $1.2 billion from the fourth quarter primarily due to lower mortgage banking revenue and lower net interest income.
The decline in net interest income reflects 2 fewer days in the quarter and an 11-basis-point decline in the margin.
Approximately half of the margin decline was due to a lower level of accelerated income from PCI loan resolutions and securities redemptions predominantly related to the legacy Wachovia positions both of which tend to be uneven.
The remaining portion of the decline in margin was related to higher levels of lower-yielding cash and short-term investments which reflects our disciplined interest rate management.
Our cash and short-term investments averaged $101 billion and earned a yield of 29 basis points in the first quarter.
When thinking about the margin in an improving credit cycle we believe it is useful to look at risk adjusted NIM.
Ours has improved for 4 straight quarters ending the first quarter at 2.85% up 10 basis points from the fourth quarter and 60 basis points from a year ago.
There were a number of selected items in the first quarter that I'd like to highlight as shown on Slide 4.
Merger integration expenses totaled $440 million in the quarter down $94 million from the fourth quarter and consistent with our prior estimate for 2011 costs.
Operating losses were $472 million in the quarter substantially all from additional litigation accruals for foreclosure-related matters.
Incentive compensation and employee benefits which are seasonally higher in the first quarter were up $352 million from the fourth quarter.
Reflecting continued improvement and credit quality across our consumer and commercial portfolios we released $1 billion in reserves in the first quarter and would expect additional releases in the future absent significant deterioration in the economy.
Finally our effective tax rate was 29.5% in the quarter which included the benefit associated with the realization for tax purposes of a previously written-down investment.
Currently our estimated full year 2011 effective tax rate is approximately 32%.
Let me now turn to key growth drivers across our diversified model.
On Slide 5 you can see that average loans increased $402 million from the fourth quarter driven by commercial loans which grew for the second consecutive quarter and increased 4% linked quarter annualized.
Growth in this portfolio was broad based including growth in commercial and corporate banking asset-backed finance commercial real estate SBA lending and in international.
This growth reflected loans to new customers as well as increased line utilization both positive signs of continued growth.
Average consumer loans declined from the fourth quarter although the rate of decline has slowed for the past 4 quarters.
There was growth in brokerage private student lending and in auto.
Auto dealer services had record originations in the first quarter with average loans up 14% linked quarter annualized.
This strong volume enabled us to increase our margins in this business while we continue to benefit from lower charge-offs in delinquencies.
While average loans increased slightly from the fourth quarter period-end loans declined $6.1 billion reflecting the expected runoff in our nonstrategic portfolios which declined $6.5 billion in the quarter.
We are no longer originating these loans including legacy Wells Fargo Financial indirect auto liquidating home equity legacy Wells Fargo financial debt consolidation government student loans Pick-a-Pay mortgages and other PCI loans.
Other than these portfolios our core loan portfolios grew $371 million from the fourth quarter.
As you can see on Slide 7 deposit growth was strong again this quarter with average core deposits up $37.7 billion or 5% from a year ago and up modestly from the fourth quarter.
Average core deposits were 106% of average loans.
Retail core deposits which exclude wholesale banking and mortgage escrows had stronger growth up 7% annualized from the fourth quarter.
For the first time since the merger with Wachovia retail core deposits grew in the Eastern markets as deposit balances are no longer facing the headwinds from the intentional runoff of $117 billion in high-rate Wachovia CDs that have matured over the past 2 years.
At the time of the merger approximately 41% of our retail core deposits in the Eastern markets were in CDs compared with only 17% at the end of the first quarter.
These high rate CDs now account for only 2% of our total core deposits.
Average checking and savings deposits were $723 billion up 9% from a year ago and were 91% of average core deposits up from 88% a year ago.
We continue to see strong account growth across our franchise with net retail checking account growth of 7.4% including 7.9% growth in California 8.5% growth in North Carolina and 12% growth in Florida.
Our ability to generate such strong growth in states throughout our footprint reflects our unrelenting focus on providing industry-leading distribution convenience and customer service which benefits our current customers and attracts new customers.
Our continued strength in attracting low-cost deposits is reflected in our overall low deposit funding costs of 30 basis points in the first quarter.
Turning to noninterest income on Slide 8.
The $753 million linked quarter decline in noninterest income in the quarter was almost entirely due to a $741 million decrease in mortgage banking fees.
Mortgage fees reflected a $44 billion decline in origination volume in the quarter as higher mortgage rates reduced refi volume.
These higher rates also increased the value of our servicing portfolio with net MSR results of $379 million and the ratio of MSRs to loan service for others at 92 basis points.
MSR valuation adjustments included a reduction of $214 million in the first quarter for higher projected servicing and foreclosure costs.
It is important to note that factoring in servicing and foreclosure costs in our MSR value is not new for Wells Fargo.
In fact we reduced the value of our MSR by over $1 billion in 2009 and by over $1 billion in 2010 as servicing and foreclosure costs rose.
Let me highlight a few other key drivers of fee income this quarter.
Service charges on deposit accounts were down 2% linked quarter due to seasonality and down 24% from a year ago due to the impact of Regulation E.
The Reg E impact this quarter along with the estimated 2011 impact from regulatory reform is in line with estimates we provided last quarter.
We continue to refine our estimate of lower debit interchange fees from Dodd-Frank if implemented which we now estimate will be approximately $325 million quarterly after-tax but before any offsets.
This estimate also reflects the higher debit card transaction volume our consumer and small business customers are generating.
Card fees were up 2% from the fourth quarter which is strong considering the usual seasonality in first quarter results.
Year-over-year card fees were up 11% reflecting an 11% increase in debit card volume and a 6% increase in consumer credit card volume driven by new account growth and increased card usage by our existing customers.
Trading gains were up 15% from the fourth quarter and 14% from a year ago reflecting strong sales and trading volume driven primarily by interest rates and commodities trading activity on behalf of our customers.
On Slide 9 you'll see that expenses improved in the quarter down $607 million from the fourth quarter.
As I mentioned earlier expenses in the first quarter included $440 million of merger integration costs higher operating losses related to a build in our litigation reserves and seasonally higher incentive compensation and employee benefit expenses.
We also continued to have higher loan resolution and loss mitigation costs of $792 million this quarter.
The lower expenses we had in the first quarter does not yet reflect the benefits we expect to realize from Project Compass our company-wide effort to reduce core expenses while not compromising future growth opportunities.
While Compass is focused on reducing our core fixed cost our total expenses in any given quarter will depend on many factors including the variable costs associated with many of our businesses including residential mortgage originations.
Residential mortgage origination is one of the largest variable cost businesses at Wells Fargo and it is important to consider the impact of expenses not just revenue on the bottom line.
To manage this variable cost effectively we utilize a temporary workforce for a portion of our origination activities that we can expand or contract depending on current and expected origination and application volume.
In order to ensure a strong customer service and preparedness for rate volatility we manage these costs carefully and increases and decreases can lead or lag actual volume.
As the graph on Slide 10 indicates we ramped up production to support demand from the refi boom in the third and fourth quarters of last year.
Now we are in the process of resizing the organization to reflect current demand levels as well as -- as we always do in mortgage cycles.
This is not new for us.
Importantly expenses can lag changes in volume since we need to provide notice to temporary staff before the end of their assignments with us.
As mortgage volumes slowed in the first quarter we took actions to reduce retail fulfillment staff by over 4 500 people.
However at the end of the quarter over 2 000 were still on the payroll due to the required notification period.
We expect to realize the expense savings from these reductions in the second quarter.
Turning to our segments which starts on Slide 11.
Community Banking earned $2.2 billion up 13% from the fourth quarter with $12.6 billion in revenue.
We continued to sell more products to more customers across our banking footprint achieving a record combined cross sell of 5.79 products in the first quarter up from 5.6 a year ago.
This growth reflects continued increases in the West with cross-sell reaching a record 6.21 products while the East grew cross-sell from 5.02 a year ago to 5.22 this quarter.
Cross-sell improvement reflects record sales with core product sales up 16% in the West reaching 3 million sales in a single month for the first time ever.
We also continued to increase sales in the East by introducing new sales and service practices as well as new products.
Let me highlight a few examples.
Approximately 33% of households in the West have a Wells Fargo credit card compared with less than 14% in the East.
In the first quarter credit card sales in the East more than doubled from a year ago.
In the first quarter partner referrals in the East that resulted in the sale including products such as insurance mortgage and merchant services were more than 6x a year ago.
Wholesale Banking earned $1.7 billion on $5.5 billion in revenues in the first quarter.
Loans grew 9% linked quarter annualized with broad-based growth in commercial banking international commercial real estate asset-backed finance government banking and corporate banking.
Loan growth was driven by new customer activity and an increase in line utilization up 50 basis points from the fourth quarter.
Linked quarter revenue was down primarily due to lower loan resolution income in the Wachovia portfolio.
This decline was expected since we have already recognized the benefits from the largest loans in that portfolio.
Many businesses within Wholesale Banking grew revenue linked quarter by adding new customers and continuing to focus on cross-selling.
These included fixed-income sales and trading equity sales and trading investment solution commercial mortgage servicing equipment finance and real estate capital markets.
Let me give you a couple of quick examples of the momentum building in the first quarter.
Commercial mortgage servicing won 6 master servicing deals in the first quarter compared with 13 for all of 2010.
Wells Fargo Capital Finance arranged and syndicated the largest transaction in their history with a $1.8 billion refinancing for Hertz.
Investment banking revenue with corporate and commercial customers increased 68% from the first quarter last year due to attractive capital markets conditions and continued success in selling investment banking products to our wholesale customer base.
Wealth Brokerage and Retirement had a very strong quarter earning $339 million up $142 million from the fourth quarter.
Revenue was $3.2 billion up 4% from the fourth quarter.
Revenue growth was driven by strong asset base fees with managed account assets up 7%.
This growth benefited from the strongest quarterly net client asset flow since the merger.
Expenses were down 2% from the fourth quarter resulting in positive operating leverage.
Average core deposits were a record $125 billion up $4 billion from the fourth quarter.
WBR results are already benefiting from the systems conversion completed early in the first quarter.
Over 15 000 financial advisors in all 50 states are now on one common platform.
Loan originations by financial advisors are up 56% from the first quarter 2010.
Cross-sell continued to improve to 9.82 products per WBR customer up from 9.67 products a year ago.
Our results this quarter continued to benefit from significant improvement in credit quality as shown on Slide 14.
Charge-offs declined again for the fifth consecutive quarter down $629 million from the fourth quarter and 41% below the fourth quarter 2009 peak.
Nonperforming loans declined for the second consecutive quarter down $1.3 billion from last quarter.
Provision expense was $2.2 billion down $779 million from the fourth quarter including $1 billion reserve release.
Absent a significant deterioration in the economy we believe future reductions in the allowance -- we can expect future reductions in the allowance for loan losses.
The allowance for credit losses was $22.4 billion at the end of the quarter and we also have $12.9 billion of nonaccretable difference to absorb losses in our PCI portfolio with the nonaccretable difference equal to 29.6% of remaining PCI unpaid principal balance.
The key credit metrics highlighted on Slide 15 point to continued improvement.
NPAs were down 5% from the fourth quarter our second straight quarterly decline.
Nonperforming loans declined $1.3 billion from the fourth quarter with reductions in commercial and industrial commercial real estate construction and each of the consumer loan categories.
Total nonperforming inflows were down 11% from the fourth quarter.
This is a second consecutive quarter of reduced inflows which is a key driver of our NPA improvement.
We had the fifth consecutive quarterly decline in loans 90 days past due and still accruing and early stage delinquencies also declined from the fourth quarter the second consecutive quarter of improvement.
This improvement in credit quality in part reflects the ongoing balance decline in nonstrategic portfolios down a total of $64 billion or 34% since the merger with Wachovia.
The PCI portfolio continued to perform better than expected.
Due to improved expected cash flows in this portfolio largely Pick-a-Pay and resolved commercial loans we have released a total of $5.5 billion of nonaccretable difference $1.5 billion of which has been recognized in earnings since the merger from loan resolutions and most of the other $4 billion will be recognized through accretable yield over the life of the loans.
This benefit has been partially offset by reserve bills netting to $3.9 billion improvement over original expectations.
While the nonaccretable balance has absorbed $28 billion of losses related to PCI loans we have $12.9 billion of nonaccretable difference remaining to cover 29.6% of remaining PCI unpaid principal balance.
As we said at the time of the merger we wanted to ensure that our portfolio marks were accurate and we are pleased with the performance so far.
As we have done over the last few quarters we updated the information on our mortgage servicing portfolio as well as our repurchase demands on Slide 17.
The delinquency and foreclosure rate continued to decline to 7.22% in the first quarter the lowest in 2 years and down significantly from a peak of 8.96% in fourth quarter 2009.
Once again based on the most recent publicly available data as of 12/31 our rate was the lowest among large bank peers.
We believe these results reflect the relative strength of the Wells Fargo portfolio and the sustained improvement in the industry.
Our outstanding agency repurchase demands declined for the third consecutive quarter with the number and dollar volume of demands outstandings down over 50% from the second quarter 2010 peak.
The most problematic vintages in terms of losses continue to be 2006 through 2008 but new demands in those vintages have dropped significantly from a year ago.
New non-agency repurchase demands based on loan count have declined for 4 consecutive quarters and we only had $69 million in total non-agency repurchases in the first quarter.
Total repurchased losses declined substantially in the first quarter to $331 million down $175 million or 35% from the fourth quarter as repurchase volume declined.
We added $249 million to the repurchase reserve this quarter down $464 million in the fourth quarter.
As John spoke earlier on the call when he addressed the regulatory consent orders and as highlighted on Slide 18 we have already made many improvements to our servicing and foreclosure practices.
As we have responded to changes in the housing market and strengthened our servicing practices we have added over 10 000 team members to our home preservation staff bringing the total to 16 000 team members.
We plan to add or reassign approximately 1 000 additional team members over the next year with much of these costs already reflected in our current MSR value.
As we disclosed in last quarter's release estimating the expenses we will incur to service our portfolio is a routine part of our quarterly MSR valuation process.
We reduced the value of our MSR asset by $214 million this quarter due to increased servicing cost and have reduced the asset value by over $1 billion in each of the past 2 years as servicing and foreclosure costs have risen.
As shown on Slide 19 capital ratios continue to increase with strong internal capital generation.
Tier 1 common grew to 8.9% up over 60 basis points from the fourth quarter and up over 180 basis points from a year ago.
Under current Basel III capital proposals we estimate our Tier 1 common ratio grew to 7.2% this quarter.
Our other capital ratios continued to grow as well with Tier 1 capital increasing to 11.5% and Tier 1 leverage to 9.3%.
These ratios will reduce by approximately 30 basis points in the quarter as we called $3.2 billion of Trust Preferred Securities that under regulatory capital guidelines no longer qualify as capital once we gave notice of redemption.
Our capital levels continue to demonstrate the ability of Wells Fargo to generate capital organically and as it relates to Basel III standards the benefit of our diversified lower risk model relative to our large bank peers.
As John mentioned at the start of the call our strong capital position enabled us to begin to return more capital to our shareholders.
We took several actions that were contemplated in the capital plan we submitted to the Federal Reserve including increasing our quarterly dividend rate to $0.12 a share which is just the first step toward returning to a more normalized payout ratio of 30% over time.
I would also highlight that we not only increased our quarterly rate we actually paid this higher rate in the first quarter in full to our shareholders and the board has already authorized the same payment for the second quarter dividend.
We also increased our share repurchase authority by 200 million shares starting this month -- and starting this month we began to buy back shares.
We also expect to call additional Trust Preferred Securities that will no longer count as Tier 1 capital under both Dodd-Frank and Basel III.
In summary we had a very strong first quarter.
We are very pleased with our record earnings reflecting growth across our businesses.
The strength of our franchise is reflected in the continuing growth in deposits and high-quality loan originations and deepening customer relationships with record cross-sell.
The quality of our loan portfolios resulted in continued reductions in charge-offs NPAs and early stage delinquencies across our portfolios.
Internal capital generation remained strong enabling us to return more capital to our shareholders.
Liquidity remains at a very high level.
We believe that our franchise remains very well positioned for the future.
I'd like to now open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Joe Morford from RBC Capital.
LLC</strong> I guess Tim maybe to start could you talk a bit more about Project Compass and how you're going about that? And more specifically what are the goals or opportunities for the program and when we might start seeing -- should see that start to flow through in the numbers? Sure.
I'd be happy to Joe.
We started talking about Project Compass in the fourth quarter.
And in the fourth quarter we mentioned that we were going to provide more guidance and more detailed guidance in the summer.
And the reason for that is that we look at Project Compass as a very important effort on behalf of the company and we look and we structured it as a bottoms-up process.
What we want to do is make sure that we can improve our efficiency and become more cost effective without a reduction in revenue.
And so we want to start from the bottom up and talk to all of our folks as many of our folks as we can that are closest to the customers figure out what we can do to improve their ability to deliver better products and services more efficiently to the customers.
So in terms of outlook and expectations we'll provide more detail this summer.
LLC</strong> And then just one follow-up.
Joe let me add to that.
LLC</strong> Sure John.
This is about getting clearly more efficient but it's also becoming more nimble.
We want to be able to grow revenues faster and we think by simplifying some of the things that we do that don't affect customers actually can help our team spend more time with customers and enhance our revenue growth and become more relevant to our customers.
So really it has -- yes it does have the expense feature and that's going to be an important part of it but it's all about growing the business.
LLC</strong> And then just a follow up it sounded like from your comments that your expectation for the impact of the Durbin amendment has increased? That's correct.
Last quarter our estimate was $250 million after tax and we've increased that estimate to about $325 million a quarter after tax primarily because of higher volume in the underlying product.
If you grow checking accounts of course yes and we’re growing them as fast as I've seen in experience I've had with this company for many many years.
It becomes a bigger issue of course.
Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Just wondering if -- could you give us any feel for how much in dollars a reduction of 4 500 FTEs in mortgage could help the mortgage expense area? No we don't have that detail on a per person basis.
Inc.</strong> But it's something that we should see move the needle...
Yes.
Inc.</strong> Over the next couple of quarters.
That alone should move it.
Yes.
John in terms of timing as we mentioned we ended the fourth quarter with a good pipeline of mortgages that we needed to underwrite and close and so we closed those through the first quarter.
So we did not begin the reduction in that staff until late in the quarter so you should expect that that the reduction in the origination staff should be completed by the end of the second quarter.
Inc.</strong> But in terms of magnitude it's something that we should see move the needle of your overall expense numbers.
Well yes.
It's a meaningful number for the mortgage company absolutely.
And think of it John these are processors and fulfillment kind of people.
So think about -- and you can do the math there as well as I can.
The average compensation pick a number and you can do it.
These are people that as Tim mentioned because of the Safe Act they're actually on payroll as temporaries and we have a different process in how we reduce that.
So you have to give them a couple months notice.
So yes it's a meaningful number.
Inc.</strong> Last quarter you had a slide entitled expense discipline that showed a sense of cyclically elevated expenses and where you thought they could go to in 2011 and '12 and I don't see that in today's packet.
Do those thoughts still hold about those items that you talked about last quarter? John they do.
I think that -- last quarter we had a few line items in there.
One was integration cost which we provided some detail for this quarter which were -- and the $440 million was within the range that we talked about for 2011.
We continue to be pleased with the rate of loan resolution and loss mitigation cost reduction.
We haven't broken out Wells Fargo Financial residual cost and we're not going to do that anymore because all those portfolios have now been spread across the rest of the company and it's not necessarily material.
But we still feel confident about those ranges that we provided in that slide in the fourth quarter deck.
Inc.</strong> Okay and then in terms of Project Compass you said on the second quarter call we could expect you to discuss that in a little more detail.
And should we think about you announcing some specific targets around that? You know what I don't know if we're going to announce specific targets beyond for example the type of guidance that we provided in that fourth quarter page but you will see more detail this summer.
We'd like to try to put it together by the time of the second quarter earnings announcement but it may be a little bit later than that.
Inc.</strong> But you might do something like that that former slide where you get some potential quarterly expense progressions.
Yes I think that you should expect something like that.
Inc.</strong> My last question is just on the liquidity position Tim.
Why do cash and fed funds portfolios increasing so much? And what will lead you to start investing some of that cash? Well the primary driver for the increase in our liquidity is our deposit growth.
As we mentioned the deposit growth continues to be beyond our expectations.
And we were really really pleased with that growth particularly as we mentioned in the Eastern markets where we're completing the integration and consolidation of the Wachovia stores.
But in terms of the timing and decisioning around how and when we might invest that cash in other assets is going to be a function of growth.
And then clearly we want to make sure that we can meet all of our customers’ needs in terms of our loan demand.
And then secondly we were hoping to invest that those funds as interest rates go up.
We continue to believe that we're more likely to see interest rates go up and go down than go down.
And we want to be very careful about investing a lot of funds in this kind of environment because we don't want to find ourselves a year or 2 from now having invested at a low point in the cycle.
And John I view this as a real asset of the company.
Just think about it we're growing deposits and this liquidity is -- we have $100 billion or so invested at 29 basis points.
Just think of when we do employ that.
And in this point in the cycle this is not atypical as a recovery happens.
You have uneven loan growth.
Corporate balance sheets have never been in better shape.
Consumers paying down debt.
So it's just going to take us and it's going to take the industry some time to and customers some time to borrow and start to draw on lines and we're seeing some of that in the corporate side but this -- I view this good news the potential here.
Inc.</strong> Okay thank you guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
If you could just talk about the NIM trajectory going forward.
There might be a little bit of benefit from calling the higher cost TruPS.
But how should we think about some of the other moving pieces? In terms of the direction of the NIM? Correct.
Yes well it's going to depend.
It's going to depend on loan growth and the mix of that loan growth.
As we mentioned we saw a nice loan growth in our Wholesale groups.
We haven't seen as much loan growth yet in the consumer portfolio.
It's going to depend on the rate of decline in our nonstrategic portfolios which as we mentioned we're down about $6 billion for the quarter.
It's going to depend on our decisions as we were just talking about related to investing the treasury portfolio.
And then it's going to depend on deposit growth.
I really can't give you a specific direction in terms of the NIM.
I will reinforce though that we don't think about running this company based upon the NIM.
We think about running the company based upon making sure that we can meet our customers' needs.
What comes out of that is one of the measures is the NIM.
But I can assure you we're not managing the company based upon NIM.
And the other thing we -- I know you know this but we for the big bank peers we have the best NIM in the industry by some distance.
And there is some impact as to how we recognize the PCI resolutions.
But I think Tim said we don't run the company based on that.
Well maybe just to rephrase the question.
I mean the net interest income dollars came down a bit quarter-to-quarter and you point to a couple of things that seem like they might be onetime or lumpy.
And I'm just trying to get a sense of what you might be thinking from here in terms of some of these moving pieces or do we just look at this as kind of a run rate and it'll all be driven by loan growth from here? Well again the current NIM might be the run rate.
We'll continue to watch that as we go through each quarter.
We do expect that the PCI loan resolution effect within the NIM is going to be lumpy and it has been ever since the first quarter of 2009.
And then just separately the mortgage originations were down pretty similar to what we're seeing for the overall industry.
But if we look at the loan production revenue that might have come down a little bit more than I would've expected given the decline in originations.
And I appreciate the gain on sale came down a little bit this quarter but I thought it was still pretty solid.
So wondering what might have driven down the origination revenue a bit more than the originations there? Well the gain on sale margins declined in the quarter and that's just a question of the spread in the loans.
You saw the refinance.
As you pointed out you saw refinance volume going down but also the gain on sale went down because spreads went down.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
So just a question on PPOP [ph].
I mean you got a couple of big levers that you have in the expense line with merger integration charges coming down and the mortgage line coming down.
Obviously you're going to reinvest some of that into Project Compass.
On the top line you got the rebranding of Wells Fargo going on the entire East Coast.
Could you just give us a sense as to how you are thinking about managing all those levers as we go through the next couple of quarters here maybe even into 2012? Just want to make sure I understand how you're thinking about doing these reinvestments and timing it with what you hope to get from the cross-sell.
Well Betsy let me take that.
So you think about the company -- there's a lot of stuff going on right now.
So we want to complete the Wachovia merger and do that exceedingly well and I couldn't be happier with how that has gone.
Secondly let's not forget the improvement in credit quality here.
This was in some people's minds a big bet on credit and we thought we did a good job analyzing upfront.
And the proof in the pudding is in the eating as they say and we sure liked the results.
In fact if you look at the numbers we've had a better news there than we had planned for.
We want it to stay that way and we're very pleased with that.
So those expenses to complete the merger will largely extinguish at the end of the year as we finished that integration.
We're on schedule.
We're on budget.
And we have a plan -- I think we have 5 or 6 more events to finish the Eastern integration.
So think of that as on schedule and largely in place.
And as the passage of time those will happen.
With respect to credit quality we expect that we will see improvement.
And we will get the numbers we're looking for.
We've put a lot of people add a lot of people in this company as the industry has to serve customers who are having challenges.
On the mortgage side for example we've seen dramatic improvement in our past due.
In fact we are for the large servicers an industry-leading position.
We've gone from almost 9% delinquency of our servicing portfolio of all of our mortgages down to just a little over 7% now.
That's a 20% improvement.
That's a huge move in 5 quarters.
There is real people attached to that and we'll be able to see improvement over time as that happens.
And even with what's going to happen in some of the new servicing standards there'll probably be as much reassignment of some people as anything but we should see the improvement there.
Then with respect to Compass when you have an opportunity that we have to get rid of some expense that doesn't add to customer value to make us more efficient more relevant we expect that those things are going to happen.
And we'll give you more information on that.
So there's a variety of things going on.
In the meantime we're growing accounts.
We're growing households.
In the middle market and wholesale side we're growing the business there.
We have a wonderful global financial institutions group that we're doing a lot of business there.
The wealth management business is growing.
So there's lots of good things that are happening.
But at a time -- in the cycle right now it's uneven.
So that's to be expected.
But I'm encouraged that during this period of time now we're doing all things that we can manage to make a difference for the long-term prosperity of this company.
So on the East Coast integration where you've rebranded to date how the cross-sell is tracking relative to expectations? It's better.
It's better -- in fact I can’t tell you -- the only thing we didn't expect is how many pictures people we take into the stagecoach in Manhattan.
If we could have figured how to -- what it would cost per every picture we -- but no that's just -- it's been much better.
In fact as you recall we did the economics of the merger.
We never put in the revenue synergies but we had expectations because we saw in other places.
But I can tell you cross-sell is growing faster now than it has since we started measuring this some 15 or 20 years ago.
I can't be more encouraged.
And I think you're going to see that accelerate now because all of a sudden people are seeing the signs.
They're seeing the connectivity.
And when do you see that hitting the top line do you think? I would say it takes a while for that to run through.
Typically you add products arithmetically.
The profitability goes geometrically.
So yes you're going to start seeing that I think accelerate the next number of quarters.
That's when it comes through.
But if you think about the East and again I want to go back to it one more time under cross-selling consumer small numbers times big numbers equals big numbers.
We went from just a little over 5 products per household to 5.22 in 1 year.
That's huge.
We used to add 3 or 4 basis points per year.
Adding 20 basis points is -- you just don't see stuff like that.
And then just lastly on buybacks.
When would you start the repurchase? Are you waiting for the P-buffer [ph] for discussions or are you good to go before that.
No we're buying.
Betsy we started buying shares back this quarter from our benefits plans which we were allowed to do.
And you should expect that we'll as we've done historically buyback shares at opportune times.
We're going to take advantage of the fact that we've got that authority so we can deliver more returns for our shareholders.
In fact we are growing we’re sitting at the highest capital levels I ever recall in this company.
We're growing capital very rapidly.
Look at what's happened just the last quarter or the last year.
And the one thing I think that Basel did get right is the way they looked at risk.
And this company runs with a whole lot less risk than our big bank competitors.
So when you look at our capital ratios and the reduction that comes from the Basel III side it's a fraction of other companies and that's really important.
When does your blackout period end after the quarter? When can you start repurchasing? Later today.
Okay thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Thank you very much.
And on -- some of the banks that released earnings this week talked about how they saw a significant slowdown in borrowers’ interest in the second half of the quarter probably most likely March driven by events globally Japan and whatnot.
Can you just talk a little bit about what you're seeing out there on a global sense so out there for borrower demand? We didn't see any significant decline in our commercial corporate real estate customer borrowing levels toward the second half of the quarter.
And in fact our loan volume for international was up.
As John mentioned we have a very very strong financial institutions business on an international basis that the combined company has been in for over 100 years it's called our GFITS business and we saw good demand in the first quarter.
I would describe loans more as a re-regionalization if you will or more product type of the kind business you're in.
If you're in the commodities business that business is doing quite well.
We saw activity there.
On the other side if you're on the consumer side consumers are paying down debt.
So it depends on the kind of business the kind of consumer or the kind of customer.
But because of our national franchise because we're in so many different businesses serving customers we see a variety of things but we did not see that phenomenon that others have talked about.
And then on the side of the jumbo market I mean there has been some banks that have reported some increases in jumbo loans on their balance sheets.
Have you seen the jumbo market improve especially since some of the discussions with treasury where they want to lower the conforming loan rates? No not in reaction to any changes that are coming from the treasury.
I mean as you can imagine given our platform we originate a large number of jumbo loans.
And we're continuing to keep some on the balance sheet.
We didn't keep as many on the balance sheet in the first quarter as we did in the fourth quarter just because the volume was so high in the third and fourth quarter.
If you look at our individual business line segments you can -- we can say that within our wealth management and brokerage business that a good portion of the loan growth was related to jumbo loans.
The jumbo volume is more dependent -- is more connected to just the activity in the marketplace.
That's the biggest...
Okay.
Hey thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
I'm stuck on Page 28 of the presentation the PCI accretable yield.
And a very technical question did you shorten the amortization period for the accretable yield roll forward? No.
So there's different terms or different time premise depending on the type of loan.
I think it was consumer it was something like 9 years and commercial something like a couple of years but...
But the gist to my question is why did accretable yield contribute more this quarter than last quarter? Oh the first quarter included a gain of about $150 million from the sale of a pool of consumer real estate loans.
So Mike if you look at Pick-a-Pay just last quarter we had the average life was 9.4 years.
This quarter we thought we would be 9.3 years which we’re one more quarter into it.
And on the commercial side we were at 1.8 years with the life of that portfolio.
Now we're at 2 years.
So they're largely unchanged.
And Tim had the answer for that.
Maybe if I can back up a little bit but I look at the end-of-period balance for the accretable yield roll forward from the third to the fourth quarter that stayed about flat.
And from the fourth to the first quarter that was $800 million less.
So does that mean that you had an $800 million benefit in net interest income? And if so what does that mean for the future quarters? No Mike.
We could provide you with -- I'll have Jim follow up and provide you with more detail.
But you shouldn't expect that the results for the first quarter are going to have any material impact on what you should expect for the future quarters.
As John pointed out the duration in our expectations is pretty similar to the fourth quarter.
All right yes I can follow up offline.
Just another technical accounting question.
So it seems like your guidance for the tax rate stays about the same at 32% for the year but you had an adverse decision in the Court of Appeals in Washington D.C.
on Friday.
Right.
And so how much might you have to pay to the IRS? And why doesn't that get reflected in your tax guidance for the year? Can we talk to that line item? Good question Mike.
We were obviously very disappointed in the decision.
We originated the underlying leases in early part of the last decade.
And what's ironic is that both state and federal governments were very very much encouraged us and encouraged those products at that time.
We feel very strongly about our position.
Obviously the court felt differently but we were fully reserved for that decision.
So there's not going to be an impact from that decision this year.
Okay that's helpful.
And then lastly this is a very sensitive question but it's still a question that still comes up in a lot of my discussions.
And that is why did the prior CFO leave the firm? Could you add anything to the topic? Mike that is so yesterday.
I mean we've got a terrific CFO.
We're moving forward.
I can't be happier with how things are going here and we're looking to the future.
All right.
Well I look forward to working with you Tim.
Thanks mike.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
As I look at the operating expense base currently and I know there's been a few questions related to this but just trying to sort of run through it mathematically I see $440 million of integration costs $472 million of operating losses.
You talked about potential benefits from reducing the headcount on the mortgage side of the business and then also Project Compass so those four things.
I don't know what they all would quite add up to but it strikes me that you could potentially be running at a quarterly expense run rate of $12 billion or less by 2012.
Is that a reasonable conclusion on my part? Well based on the math that you just described you can get to that number.
I think and the way that we think about our expenses are going to be much more a reflection of what our revenue looks like in the mix in our businesses.
Some of our businesses are more efficient and have less expenses per dollar of revenue than others.
I know you wish I could give you a more defined answer but I'm not able to do that.
It's really going to be much more an effect on the mix of the business as well as our projects on -- our progress excuse me on expenses.
But there's no question that we're going to make progress.
Let me ask you a different question let me ask it a slightly different way.
If I come up with sort of my own math on those numbers would you expect the underlying growth sort of excluding those four things in the franchise the underlying expense growth in the franchise to be fairly minimal in '12 versus '11? So if these things sort of come out there's not going to be a big offset from sort of underlying core expense growth or will there be? Well again when we think about core expense growth we think about it based upon the opportunities we have to grow our businesses.
And so for example we've been adding new salespeople and relationship managers in Wholesale Banking for the last year.
So would that affect core expense growth? You bet it would.
The reason we've done it is because we've got opportunities to bring new people on to the platform.
We've done that.
We've done the same in our wealth management business because there's terrific financial advisers to bring out.
That would affect the core expenses too.
So I appreciate the difference in how you asked your question but I'm afraid you're going to get the same answer.
Ed here’s how I think about that.
I think about the 275 000 or 280 000 team members we have there's a group that are servicing -- there's group that sell products and services to our customers.
There's a team that services that and there's a team that supports that.
And we want to make sure that we have the business aligned around our customers in a way that we can react to customer opportunities and to company opportunities and not be burdened with additional expense that makes it more difficult for us to do that business that we're slower.
So for example how many data centers do we need? And how many different customer information files do we need? How many different places do we need to do the same business in how many different divisions? So those are the kind of things that we're going to -- that we are attacking that we are -- and it's a good time to do it because now we're almost done with the Wachovia merger.
And we can see how it is to operate in this new larger platform.
But as Tim said we don't -- this is hopefully going to help us accelerate growth.
So we're surely going to -- and take the mortgage company for example.
If all of a sudden we get a housing boom we're going to want to add team members to capture that growth.
And I know you'll appreciate that but that's how we think about it.
Okay that's helpful.
And then to follow up you talked about how you already have been repurchasing some stock.
You can get back in there this afternoon and start buying back more.
Is it reasonable for us to think that you're going to repurchase or get close to repurchasing that whole 200 million share authorization this year? You know what it's going to be a function of how we view the stock price more than anything.
We're going to repurchase stock based upon the capital plan that we submitted to the Fed.
And it's going to be based upon that.
It's going to be based upon what the stock price looks like and it's going to be based upon liquidity.
But I wouldn't necessarily conclude that we're going to buy 200 million shares next month or by the end of the year we might.
But it's really going to depend on market conditions and our performance.
And then just one final question.
Any insight on when down the road I know this is sort of tough to look out but you might get to the point where you're no longer incurring a significant mortgage repurchase cost and you can sort of play out the remaining repurchases through the existing reserve.
Is that several quarters away? Or is that more like a couple of years away? You know what I don't have a good answer for you.
My crystal ball is a little bit cloudy there.
What we do know is that things are improving faster than we would have expected 3 months ago 6 months ago and 9 months ago.
Again I think that's a reflection of the fact that our portfolio both what we own and we service for ourselves and what we service for others is just a higher quality than everybody else's.
So I think that the industry while it continues to be under stress I think when you look at Wells Fargo we're just a little bit different.
But I really couldn't tell you exactly when it's going to go away but it sure to improve this quarter.
I think if you think about how that portfolio was built and how it performs and you look at what the risks are in the industry I think the biggest risks are in the private side.
And if you look at our portfolio a small percentage of our servicing is private and about half of that doesn't carry a lot of the traditional reps and warranties.
And it's evidenced by the kind of repurchase we've been seeing.
When you have 7% of your portfolio 7.22% past due versus some of our competitors at 10% 12% or even 14% that's a huge difference.
Secondly if you have 7% of your portfolio private of which half of that doesn't carry traditionals it makes the math such that it's not something that I spend a lot of time worrying about.
Now if we have a double dip if we have another whole thing that I don't expect all bets are off.
But I sure like the trajectory and the trend you can't argue with that.
I couldn't be happier there.
Okay thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
Yes I'm wondering with regard to what's required of you under the consent orders for mortgage servicing.
I don't care so much about the existing stock of problems that we're working through but does it change the underlying economics of the mortgage servicing business going forward? I mean does it structurally impact your cost? And can you recover those costs in pricing? And how on a going forward basis can you price the product effectively to reflect those costs? Well we like the mortgage servicing business.
It's been a good business for a lot of years.
It still a good business.
Part of what we get in that business is the servicing fee the 25 basis points.
We get a higher propensity when those customers refinance.
They refinance with us and we also sell those customers other products and services.
So we like that a lot.
As Tim mentioned in his comments with respect to the existing what we know about the changes that have come about through either legislation or through the performance of the portfolio we have priced it into our MSR.
And what we don't know we actually put a reserve up.
We added to -- substantially all of the litigation charge we took was related to mortgage for this quarter.
But going forward I think is where your comment or your biggest part of your question is it's going to be 1 or 2 things either we're going to get paid for it and we're going to be in the business or if you can't get paid for it people are going to do something else with their money.
And this is a necessary important part of the mortgage business and quality matters.
And others might have a different view because they have a much more troubled portfolio ours doesn't have that.
And it's a business that I suspect will be part of a discussion as in the future GSEs get reformatted or we figure out how -- what life is like in the future.
And my guess is that it'll continue to be a good business for those who do it well.
So I mean I guess what you're saying is that I mean the ultimate business model will take years to figure out and shake out.
In the meantime we're kind of stuck with a 25 basis point servicing fee and the only way you protect yourself is by being very very careful on underwriting right? Well I wouldn't describe it as being stuck with a 25 basis point servicing fee.
I mean this is a very profitable business for us.
We like this business.
And even with the incremental cost that we've incurred for servicing and foreclosure it's still a profitable business for us.
And so as John mentioned we like it.
We think we're good at it.
In the past we've made some mistakes.
We fix them when we find them but we think we're very good at it.
And again our servicing businesses are also a reflection of the quality of the portfolio and the quality of the portfolio that we service is the highest of our big bank peers.
So overall we like the business.
Your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
This is sort of an add-on to Chris's question I guess.
Given what is going on in the mortgage business generally all these proposals or thoughts that are sort of swirling around Fannie and Freddie et cetera et cetera your company has always been and rightfully so regarded as the major mortgage player among the large banks.
And that has always helped your stock I think.
But in the past few weeks or couple of months I think your stock has begun to be sort of negatively impacted by this speculation around mortgage.
John could just give us your view of how you see the mortgage business shaking out over the long term with regard to Fannie and Freddie and how it may impact the relative size of the business for you? Well I was hoping you'd ask Tim that question.
Well he can answer.
I'm just teasing Nancy.
It's an important question because for most families the home purchase is the most significant financial transaction they'll ever have.
It affects the whole family.
The whole family gets involved in it and it's an important thing.
And we want to make sure we get it right.
I give credit to the administration and to members of congress.
It's now becoming part of the active discussion and debate in Washington.
As you saw there were 3 proposals.
Wells Fargo has opined and we've made some of our own comments known about -- and I actually had an article not too long ago in the FORTUNE Magazine about some views about this.
So I'm hopeful let's just put it that way.
I'm hopeful when we get all done with this whatever that timeframe is and it'll take -- it probably won't happen this month or this year it's going to take some time because there's very divergent views on this that mortgage money will be available for consumers.
It'll be available broadly at prices that make sense but also reflect the risk.
Whatever the government's involvement is ought to be explicit and they got to get paid for it.
The private sector ought to play a large role in this.
And this whole idea about risk retention ought to reflect the fact that everybody who touches a mortgage ought to be interested in making sure it's a good mortgage.
So whatever happens there.
So I think when we get all said and done I'm optimistic we'll get this right.
But you were correct me if I'm wrong but you were a supporter of the QRM guidelines or suggestions as they came out from the FDIC.
Is that correct? Yes But we have a view that we ought to be careful about QRM to this extent that we'd not punish the mortgage that don't make it into the QRM.
So if you start to broaden the QRM view the qualified residential mortgages when you have one that does not qualify it could be so price different in other words more expensive that you got to be careful there.
And if the QRM is too broad not enough discipline around that then you're going to have more people trying to force things in the QRM to get around the retention side.
So I mean this is just one of many many issues.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Chris Mutascio with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Hey Tim just a quick question.
I want to go back to John McDonald's question and ask it little differently.
On the $100-and-so billion in cash and short-term investments when the new world order is set from Basel III in liquidity what do you think a run rate for that type of cash and that type of balance will be? Will it be half that? I'm try to figure out how much revenue you're leaving off off the table if you will by investing $100 billion in 25 bps.
Can $50 billion be invested in 5-year treasuries over time? Chris that's a good question.
I wish I could give you the answer.
And the reason I'm hesitant is that we're in the midst of discussions with regulators with the Fed very very productive discussions from our perspective a lot of give and take.
But until we complete the discussions I couldn't comment specifically on whether it's 1/2 or 3/4 or 2/3 or what.
Clearly we're not maintaining and I want to make sure this is really clear we're not maintaining $100 billion of liquidity because we're concerned about where the LCR is going to end up.
That's not what's preventing us from investing more of that.
What we're hesitant about is investing more today on what we think are lower rates.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Yes I understand.
I'm looking at your unrealized gains of $9 billion.
So clearly you're taking on less risks than some others.
If I use $50 billion at 175 basis point spread assuming a 5-year treasury at 2% but you're already earning 25 basis points on this you're going to be leaving over $220 million a quarter off the table? I would not disagree with your math.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay all right.
Thank you very much.
That was your final question.
I will now turn the floor back over to you.
Well I want to thank all of you for joining the call.
I appreciate your questions.
And again thank you for your time and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Bye-bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Celeste and I will be your conference operator for today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn today's call over to Jim Rowe Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Celeste and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf; and CFO Tim Sloan will review second quarter results and answer your questions.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that our second quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website.
I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call and that those forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today containing in the earnings release and quarterly supplement.
Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can also be found in our SEC filings in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website at wellsfargo.com.
I will now turn the call over to John Stumpf.
Thank you Jim and good morning and thanks for joining us today.
The results we will review with you this morning are a product of our steadfast focus on 5 key priorities: helping customers succeed growing revenue reducing expense living our vision and values and building strong relationships with our key stakeholders.
The second quarter also reflected the strengths of Wells Fargo diversified business model and operating culture which continued to produce record high results in a tough economic business climate.
In the second quarter all of our business fundamentals moved in the right direction revenues loans deposits expenses credit and capital.
This is how we delivered the highest earnings in Wells Fargo's history with net income of $3.9 billion an increase of 29% from a year ago and an EPS of $0.70 up 27% over the same period.
Our strong financial performance led to strong internal capital generation producing an estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under Basel III capital proposals of 7.4%.
We grew capital even as we rewarded our loyal shareholders through dividends and with the reinstatement of our share buyback program during the quarter.
The second quarter also included many examples of the ongoing benefit of our merger with Wachovia beginning with the successful completion of our largest state conversion Florida.
With Florida now operating under the Wells Fargo brand we have 83% of our banking customers on a single system a powerful advantage for the future.
We have converted 2 215 Wachovia stores as well as 23.7 million customer accounts including mortgage deposits trust brokerage and credit cards.
Our success reflects the tremendous effort made by our entire team.
For the conversions in Pennsylvania and Florida alone team members in our banking stores completed over 217 000 hours of training and practice.
To help support our stores during conversion 2 360 bankers from stores in the West each spent more than a week in the converted states to ensure a smooth transition.
But the biggest benefit of the largest merger in our industry's history are revenue synergies many of which we are already starting to realize.
They reflect the payoffs that are possible when a team has a plan follows it with discipline and doesn't allow headwinds to distract them.
Let me highlight just a few.
Our continued strong growth in consumer checking accounts demonstrates our success at attracting new customers even during the integration.
In our eastern retail banking stores consumer checking accounts were up over 30% from a year ago.
New credit card accounts also grew in the East growing more than 140% from a year ago as we began to see a meaningful lift in credit card penetration rates in our converted markets up from 13.2% at the end of 2010 to 14.5% at the end of the second quarter.
Wachovia had a well-run Auto business before the merger and it has only become a more robust part of Wells Fargo growing indirect auto loans by more than 50% since the merger.
Our market share has also increased and that has made Wells Fargo the largest used car auto lender and the second largest overall auto lender in the industry.
Wholesale Banking businesses have benefited from the merger as well with more customers a broader product line and higher cross-sell.
For example year-to-date our investment banking market share for 2011 was 4.7% up from 3.7% for the first 6 months of 2009.
Investment banking revenue with corporate and commercial customers also has increased growing 53% during the first 6 months of 2011 versus the same period last year reflecting continued success in cross-selling investment banking products to our wholesale customer base.
Foreign exchange revenue from wholesale customers is also up 24% during the first 6 months of 2011 versus the first 6 months of 2010.
And trade fees in the second quarter from corporate and commercial customers were up 13% annualized in the first quarter.
In Wealth Brokerage and Retirement the benefit of converting to one system and greater scale in each of its businesses are reflected in a 27% increase in client assets since the merger.
The retail brokerage business which is the third largest full-service brokerage business retail brokerage firm in the U.S.
continued to grow with net flows of more than $50 billion into managed accounts since the merger.
And by focusing on meeting all the financial needs of our customers Wealth Brokerage and Retirement's and deposits have grown 28% and broker loan originations have grown by 47% since the merger.
Clearly it was an outstanding quarter and we aren't stopping here.
As our CFO Tim Sloan will highlight in a few moments as he walks through the quarter's details we think our opportunities to operate more cost effectively are just as promising as the growth opportunities that we believe lie ahead of us and are important as we continue to help even more customers succeed financially in the future.
Now let me turn this over to Tim Sloan.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
My remarks will follow the slide presentation included in the first half of the quarterly supplement starting on Slide 2.
I want to focus my comments today on 4 areas.
First the drivers behind our strong business results this quarter which included record earnings up 5% from the first quarter our highest ROA in 3 years; continued improvement in credit and linked-quarter growth in revenue loans deposits and pretax pre-provision profit.
Second as I promised I will discuss our focus on reducing expenses including Project Compass and our $11 billion quarterly noninterest expense target by the fourth quarter of 2012.
Third I will update you on our current mortgage issues including the quality of our servicing portfolio mortgage repurchases securities litigation and consent orders and also highlight some of the actions that we've already taken.
Finally I'll conclude with an update on our growing capital levels and capital actions.
Let me start by highlighting just how strong our results were this quarter and our many areas of growth.
We achieved record EPS of $0.70 up 4% from the first quarter.
Our revenue was up $57 million from Q1 with growth in both net interest income and noninterest income.
Growth was broad based with several businesses generating double-digit annualized linked-quarter growth including corporate banking commercial real estate debit card insurance international merchant services retirement services and SBA lending.
Pre-tax pre-provision profit was $7.9 billion up 4% from the first quarter.
Our period-end loans were up $766 million and average core deposits increased $10.7 billion from the first quarter.
The benefit of our continued focus on meeting our customers' lending needs throughout the past few years helped produce loan growth this quarter despite the continued reduction in our liquidating portfolio.
Our core loan portfolio which excludes the liquidating portfolio grew by $5.8 billion from the first quarter.
Loan growth in this quarter was driven by our commercial portfolio which grew $7.5 billion or 2% from the first quarter.
Growth was diverse across commercial businesses including linked-quarter growth in commercial banking commercial real estate corporate banking capital finance asset-backed finance and international.
Consumer loans were down 2% from the first quarter driven by the liquidating portfolio runoff partially offset by growth in auto credit card and private student lending.
The runoff of the liquidating portfolio continued as expected down $5 billion from the first quarter and down $69 billion or 36% since the Wachovia merger.
Deposit growth remained very strong in this quarter driven by new account and balance growth.
Average core deposits were up $10.7 billion from the first quarter and up $45.7 billion or 6% from a year ago and were 107% of average loans.
Average checking and savings deposits were up $735 billion up 9% from a year ago and were 91% of average core deposits up from 88% a year ago.
Consumer checking accounts were up 7% from a year ago.
The strong growth we achieved throughout our banking states demonstrates our ability to both acquire and retain customers as we successfully complete the largest merger integration in the industry.
While deposit rates are at historically low levels we continue to bring down deposit yields with average deposit cost declining to 28 basis points down from 30 basis points in the first quarter and down 35 basis points from a year ago.
Turning to Slide 6.
As I've mentioned our revenue growth this quarter was driven by growth in both net interest income and noninterest income.
Tax-equivalent net interest income increased $39 million from the first quarter.
The increase was driven by the period-end balance of our available-for-sale securities portfolio increasing $18 billion reflecting deployment of excess liquidity and the decline in our long-term debt expense from the maturity of debt and the redemption of high-cost trust preferred securities.
These positives were partially offset by the decline in mortgages held for sale driven by lower funding volumes and the fact that loan growth in the core loan portfolio was offset by expected runoff in the higher-yielding liquidating portfolio.
These loans generally have higher charge-offs and cost more to service.
Noninterest income was up $30 million from the first quarter with growth in deposit service charges trust and investment fees card fees processing fees insurance equity gains and operating leases more than offsetting declines in mortgage.
The increase in card fees up 46% or 5% from Q1 reflects an 8% increase in debit card volume and a 13% increase in credit card volume.
New credit card accounts were up 12% from the first quarter and up 63% from a year ago.
Mortgage banking revenue was down to $397 million or 20% from the first quarter reflecting a $20 billion decline in origination volume.
As rates declined in this quarter there was an increase in application volume and the unclosed mortgage pipe line increased $6 billion to $51 billion as of the end of the second quarter.
With the final Federal Reserve rules regarding debit interchange fees we have lowered our estimate of the impact on our earnings to approximately $250 million quarterly after tax before any offsets starting in the fourth quarter of 2011.
We expect to recapture at least half of this through volume -- half of this over time through volume and product changes.
Our second quarter results also benefited from lower expenses.
Noninterest expense was down $258 million or 2% from the first quarter and down $865 million from the fourth quarter of last year driven by lower commissions and incentive compensation employee benefit cost and equipment expense.
Second quarter expenses included only $10 million of higher FDIC insurance assessments which is lower than our previous guidance.
Our assessment reflects the fact that deposits as a percentage of assets is greater than many of our peers.
Second quarter expenses also included $484 million of merger integration costs up $44 million from the first quarter reflecting increased integration activity.
And finally second quarter expenses included $428 million of operating losses substantially all driven by litigation accruals for mortgage foreclosure-related matters.
As I promised last quarter I'm going to spend some time on the call today talking about our expense initiative Project Compass.
This starts on Slide 9.
Project Compass is a company-wide initiative focused on removing unnecessary complexity and eliminating duplication as a way to improve the customer experience and the work process of our team members.
While Project Compass is focused on reducing expenses we are using a bottoms-up approach to ensure revenue is not adversely affected.
Wells Fargo is still a very -- very focused on growing revenue as we did this quarter.
And we believe that if we do this right we will have increased revenue and a more streamlined operating model.
Project Compass has 3 main areas of focus.
First staff and technology functions.
As our company has grown we have become more complex.
We are focused on removing unnecessary complexity and eliminating duplication in our staff functions.
Throughout the merger integration we have been focused on IT consistency one platform throughout our company to serve our customers seamlessly.
With Project Compass we're focused on simplifying the technology environment across our company particularly in such areas as data centers help desk and application development and support.
For example we recently moved technology support for human resources finance corporate properties and Internet services under the corporate technology group.
Second loan resolution loss mitigation and foreclosed asset expenses should decline as the credit cycle improves.
At the same time process improvements can also be made in this area such as automating asset tracking and payment processing and centralizing certain functions.
The third area of focus is business optimization which consists of business efficiency and business portfolio reviews.
Business efficiency is focused on ensuring team members are supporting revenue-generating activity as cost effectively as possible by removing unnecessary complexity and duplication.
To date we've consolidated our auto business and reorganized our wealth management business to improve business efficiency.
Business portfolio review is a continuation of our long-standing practice of reviewing all lines of business to ensure they are generating appropriate returns and work within our business model.
As a result of these reviews we've closed Wells Fargo Financial stores exited the reverse mortgage business and announced the sale of H.D.
Vest.
As a result of Compass initiatives and the completion of merger integration activities we are targeting quarterly noninterest expenses to decline to $11 billion by the fourth quarter of 2012 down 12% from the $12.5 billion this quarter.
The target reflects expense-save initiatives that will be executed over the next 6 quarters.
However quarterly expense trends may vary due to factors such as cyclical or seasonal increases particularly in the first quarter when higher incentive compensation and employee benefit expenses typically occur.
Our $11 billion target includes currently contemplated investments in our businesses and team members such as hiring more team members in banking stores in the East.
Turning to our segment results starting on Slide 13.
Community Banking earned $2.1 billion down 4% from the first quarter reflecting lower mortgage banking results.
Other businesses within Community Banking continued to grow.
We had record retail banking cross-sell of 5.84 products up from 5.64 a year ago.
With cross-sell in the East at 5.29 products compared to the West at 6.25 we have plenty of opportunity to continue to grow across our franchise.
Over the past year we have added an incremental 1 500 platform banker FTEs in the East up 16% to better capture this opportunity.
Core product sales in the West were over $8.3 million up 16% from the prior year.
Core product sales in the East grew by double digits.
Wholesale Banking earned $1.9 billion up 17% from the first quarter with revenue up 3% expenses down 1% and continued improvement in credit cost.
Linked-quarter revenue growth was driven by strong results across many businesses including investment banking Eastdil Secured commercial real estate international corporate banking and insurance.
These results also reflect strong loan growth up 4% from the first quarter which was broad-based across a number of the wholesale businesses.
This growth reflects our commitment to meeting our wholesale customers' financial needs.
We continued to meet with our customers and grew our customer base when the market was soft and we are now benefiting from the relationships we both expanded and built during the past 3 years.
Wealth Brokerage and Retirement earned $333 million down 2% from the first quarter driven by lower brokerage transaction revenue reflecting lower market activity; while asset-based fees remained strong up 3% from the first quarter.
Expenses were down 3% from the first quarter due to lower personnel cost.
Average loans were up 2% from the first quarter with growth in brokerage lines of credit margin loans and wealth.
Managed account assets were up 3% from the first quarter driven by strong net flows.
Our continued focus on helping customers succeed financially drove cross-sell to 9.9 products up from 9.7 a year ago.
Credit quality continued to improve as shown on Slide 17.
Charge-offs declined for the sixth consecutive quarter down $372 million from the first quarter and 48% below the peak in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Provision expense was $1.8 billion down $372 million from the first quarter including $1 billion reserve release.
Absent a significant deterioration in the economy we expect future reserve releases.
Other credit metrics continued to show improvement.
Nonperforming assets were down $2.6 billion or 8% from the first quarter driven by loans returning to performing status loan payoffs loan sales improved success in home modifications and increased short sale activity.
Nonaccrual loan inflows were down 15% from the first quarter.
Loans 90 days past due declined for the sixth consecutive quarter down $598 million from the first quarter or 25%.
Early stage delinquencies both balances and rates also declined from the first quarter.
We believe our servicing portfolio is among the best in the industry.
Our portfolio is fundamentally different from other large mortgage servicers.
Starting on Slide 19 we highlight the quality of our portfolio.
The majority of our $1.8 trillion residential servicing portfolio or 69% is service for the agencies.
Only 6% are private securitizations where we originated the loans.
As a reminder the characteristics of our non-agency securitization portfolio are different from our larger peers.
80% were prime origination 58% are from pre-2006 vintages there is an insignificant amount of home equity and there are no option arms.
Approximately 50% of the private securitizations do not have traditional reps and warranties.
6% of the total servicing portfolio is non-agency acquired servicing and private home loan sales with the majority having repurchase recourse with the originator.
The remaining 19% are loans we hold on our balance sheet and losses are recognized through the loan loss reserves and the PCI-nonaccretable difference.
The quality of our portfolio is demonstrated by our delinquency and foreclosure rate.
Once again based upon the most recent publicly available data our rate was the lowest among large bank peers and was over 300 basis points lower than the industry average.
Total outstanding repurchase demands are down in both number and balances for the fourth consecutive quarter.
Losses on repurchases also declined from $331 million in the first quarter to $261 million in the second quarter.
Agency repurchase demands were up modestly from the first quarter due to an acceleration in the timing of the review of defaulted loans on older vintages.
We do not believe this acceleration increases our future demand risk.
Total non-agency repurchase demands declined for the third consecutive quarter.
We added $242 million to the repurchase reserve this quarter essentially flat with the $249 million we added last quarter.
Let me highlight a few other mortgage-related matters.
We recently reached a preliminary settlement of $125 million to address Securities Law claims by buyers of private label mortgage-backed securities.
This settlement should resolve pending Securities Law claims for most purchasers of our private label mortgage-backed securities.
If approved this settlement would have no future P&amp;L impact since it has been considered in our litigation reserves.
As we discussed last quarter we entered into consent orders with the OCC and the fed regarding foreclosure processing this year.
We remain committed to full compliance and we are enhancing several aspects of our servicing including single point of contact.
We remain committed to helping our customers who are experiencing financial difficulties.
And we have done approximately 695 000 trial and completed modifications since 2009 and we have forgiven over $4 billion of principal.
In addition to these actions to help our customers we have continued to reflect our best estimates of potential costs surrounding mortgage-related issues in our financial results.
We have reduced the value of our MSR asset by $445 million in the second quarter and have reduced the value of this asset by over $2.5 billion over the past 2.5 years to reflect higher servicing and foreclosure cost.
And as I previously mentioned we also had $428 million of operating losses in the second quarter substantially all from litigation accruals from mortgage foreclosure-related matters.
As shown on Slide 22 capital ratios continued to grow through strong internal capital generation.
Our Tier 1 common equity ratio increased to 9.16% up 23 basis points from the first quarter and up 155 basis points from a year ago.
Under current Basel III capital proposals our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio grew to 7.4% this quarter.
$3.4 billion of trust preferred were redeemed in the second order with a weighted average coupon of 7.44%.
We expect to redeem additional trust preferred securities in the second half of this year.
We restarted our open market common stock repurchase program and repurchased 35 million shares in the second quarter and we will continue to opportunistically buyback our stock.
In summary our strong results this quarter reflect strength throughout our franchise as we produce quarterly growth in revenue loans and deposits.
And our return on assets was 1.27% our highest ROA in 3 years.
The decline in noninterest expense from the first quarter is just the beginning of our efforts targeting $11 billion in quarterly noninterest expense by the fourth quarter of 2012.
The quality of our loan portfolios resulted in continued improvement in charge-offs nonperforming assets and early stage delinquencies across our portfolios.
Our capital levels continued to grow and we returned more capital to our shareholders.
We're optimistic that the momentum demonstrated in our results this quarter will drive future growth as we complete the Wachovia merger integration remain disciplined on expenses and continue to focus on meeting the financial needs of our customers.
I will now open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
I just wanted to make sure.
You said you were going to be doing a portfolio review and you've mentioned that in the context of the expenses.
Does that suggest that there would be any revenues impacted by a portfolio review or not? No.
I wouldn't read that into it.
We're always looking at our portfolios and what makes sense but no I wouldn't go -- that's not our intention.
And Betsy I would just reinforce that the $11 billion target that we set for the fourth quarter of next year assumes revenue growth.
We believe that we can achieve that target by continuing to grow our revenues.
And Betsy just let me highlight that.
Nothing -- revenues remains king around here.
And we think that by becoming more efficient we actually can grow revenue faster.
We'll be more competitive on the Street so -- and we have as Tim mentioned in his comments we have assumed in these numbers adding more people putting more feet on the street.
And if we see some opportunity between now and the end of 2012 we'll even do more.
Okay.
And then just separately on Page 6 you talked through the NII during the quarter.
Can you talk about what kind of mitigating factors you have to deal with the potential for further earning asset yield compression? Well I think that the key for the business is to continue to grow loans.
And we were able to grow loans on a sequential basis particularly in our wholesale portfolios in the quarter which was really exciting.
We saw a decline in the rate of the drop off in the non-core nonstrategic portfolios.
I think in addition as we mentioned we purchased about $18 billion of AFS securities high-quality short-duration assets toward the end of the quarter.
We'll continue to look for those types of opportunities.
And it's also likely that we'll hold more mortgages that we originate on the sheet.
Especially as the conforming caps come down.
Right that's going to happen in September.
So as you move into fourth quarter is there -- can you give us any sense of how much you're expecting to retain relative to current run rate? No.
We don't have a good estimate for that right now because we're not 100% sure what jumbo origination would be in terms of that mortgage class.
But it's likely that we're going to hold more mortgages on the balance sheet than we did in the second quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Tim a question on the noninterest expense side and the target.
The foreclosed asset expense doesn't decline that much in your target by fourth quarter of 2012.
And I guess does that assume that you're still working through the cycle there and there's more room to improve that particular line beyond the fourth quarter of 2012? That's a reasonable assumption John.
But I'd also say John there are some additional costs because of regulatory reform and some of the consent order that we had to build into our thinking there.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So some piece of that is still cyclically elevated and some of it's just going to be structurally a little bit higher than it was historically.
Correct.
That's a good way of thinking of it.
Okay.
Another question is you're not a huge International player but you do have some businesses.
Could you comment on your exposure to the troubled economies in Europe and how you think about risks there for your business? Sure.
Right now we have $3.2 billion of exposure to the countries affectionately called PIIGS.
Most of it -- very little of that exposure is sovereign risk.
Most of it's the corporates and bonds.
Having said that one of the real benefits from putting Wells Fargo and Wachovia together was growing our international presence.
And our GFITS business is a terrific business.
And we'll continue to grow Internationally but we'd want to do it in a way where we take appropriate credit risk and deal with the right customers.
And John most of our international business first of all it's a very small percentage of our revenue.
But as Tim mentioned it's a business we like a lot.
It's a correspondent business for central and international commercial banks.
And it's highly biased or skewed towards foreign exchange trade and those kinds of things but it's a very small piece of our overall company.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Last question is could you give us any color on where you stand in terms of building reserves for litigation and regulatory matters including the AG discussions? Is this process of building litigation reserves likely to go on for a while? Any of you? Well here's how I think about that.
First I'm not going to speculate on the ultimate outcome of the discussion with the AGs and the Department of Justice.
But the reserves the litigation reserves we have today reflect our best estimate of the estimable and probable outcomes of the discussions and conversations we've had.
And remember in addition to that we've also written down the MSR by $2.5 billion to reflect the future costs of servicing those mortgages.
And we of course have a loan loss reserve that we believe is adequate considering all the discussions we've had.
So think of it in those 3 ways.
It's our best estimate for what we know today.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then one quick follow-up Tim on Betsy's discussion around the NIM and the NII.
So as you look ahead how would you kind of summarize the puts and takes for the net interest income and the NIM going forward here? In terms of what the NIM might look like in future quarters? Inc.</strong> Just positives and negatives and where the key variables are.
And what leverage you might have and what environmental factors are going to influence whether you're able to grow NII and keep the NIM stable? Well I think that the key leverage we have is just to continue to grow loans.
I mean we've got -- we've really grown relationships we've talked about the success of the merger integration.
And so that's number one.
I think number two as we talked about in the past to the extent that rates rise a bit we'll invest at a faster pace than we're investing our excess liquidity today.
Having said that as we mentioned in the second quarter we took advantage of some short-duration assets that we found attractive.
Again these are high-quality well-underwritten.
We'll continue to do that.
John I think of it this way.
We have a NIM around 4% now in probably one of the toughest environments I've ever seen.
I mean there's very tepid loan demand.
We are winning new relationships but you got to run pretty hard just to cover the runoff of some things that we'd like to see run off.
And this wonderful deposit franchise we have is I think really undervalued in today's economic times.
So these are pretty tough headwinds and we're doing pretty well in that.
And we're also sitting on almost $90 billion of liquidity that's -- we're not even earning the cost of our deposits on that.
So I mean we have some real dry powder here if you will.
And John just the final point and that is when you look at one of the reasons that our liability costs came down it was because we repurchased some drops.
As I mentioned we'll continue to repurchase drops in the second half of the year as well as the fact that we've got about $20 billion of debt that's going to mature in the second half of the year.
And I think we'll reduce our funding cost there too.
Inc.</strong> And can we assume the amount that you deployed this quarter Tim was pretty small relative to the $90 billion of liquidity? Can you tell us? Yes that is correct.
Yes absolutely.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Can you comment on the timing of the expense reductions as we think about getting from the mid-12s down to the 11% range over the next I guess it's 6 quarters? Is that a straight line front-ended back-ended? Yes.
It's not back-ended and it's probably not going to be front-ended.
I don't know if it's going to be at a straight line but it's probably going to be closer to a continued quarterly reduction like we've shown for the last couple of quarters than anything else.
Though again I'd highlight that we could have some seasonal impacts.
But the important thing Matt is you shouldn't expect the expenses to be flat and then all of a sudden we'll just have a big drop in the fourth quarter next year.
We're going to continue each quarter to reduce our expenses and work hard at doing that.
And any related restructuring charges that we should expect? Not anything that's abnormal no.
Okay.
And then just different topic.
Among the regional and super regional banks you have a bigger delta between your Basel I and Basel III capital ratios.
I think it's about 1.8 % or so.
One can you remind us why there is such a big difference? I think part of it is deductions and part of it's the RWA inflation.
And then two what are some of the opportunities you have to narrow that 1.8% gap? Yes.
Matt I'll take you at your word that it's about 1.8%.
But the way that we think about it is that historically Wells Fargo has always felt that it's important to have adequate capital.
That's one of the reasons why we got through the downturn as well as we did.
So we've been competing against the regional banks other smaller regional banks with more capital.
And we don't believe that's a big issue.
I think that the difference is specifically between our sheet and each bank is just going to be kind of bank by bank.
Matt I'm little confused.
I thought the big banks we compete with have a bigger delta between I and III but...
No I'm sorry.
I meant versus other regional.
I guess I tend to think about you...
No.
On the regional side I get it.
But surely not on the big side.
Right.
So your gap is less but I think all things else being equal you'd like it to be even less than it is...
Yes.
Less is good in this case.
So are there opportunities to...
If there -- we're always looking at that but we're not going to do anything stupid or anything that doesn't make business sense.
I don't worry about us getting to whatever our number will be.
We're growing capital very quickly now and we're going to do the right thing for the business and for our customers.
And I wouldn't do something different just because I'm trying to figure out some way to narrow that gap or that we have a challenge getting to that number.
Okay.
And then just lastly it's a little bit of an annoying an accounting question on the accretable yield.
But on Page 32 you showed the accretable yield balance coming down by about $1.1 billion or $1.2 billion the weighted average life increasing.
And I'm just trying to understand what drove both the accretable yield balance down much more than the accretion that came into earnings and then why the average life.
I assume it's related but why that increased? You're right Matt.
When you look at the PCI accretable yield it was down about $1 billion from the first to the second quarter.
About half of that was reduction -- was the normal accretion which we recognized in NII this quarter.
The other half was due to a decline in our expected cash flows.
This decline was driven by primarily by Pick-a-Pay.
Again we'll call these our lifetime estimates.
We update these quarterly.
They can be affected by interest rates liquidation timing loan modification activity.
I think the important thing to remember is that the projected accretion is still significantly better than we had at acquisition.
At acquisition we thought this would be about $10.4 billion.
We're at $14.9 billion this quarter.
So even after netting out the $6.1 billion of accretion we've recognized since the merger we're still higher.
And the pace that that accretes into earnings we can think about the remaining balance of roughly $13 billion.
That's 10 years so it's going to be with us at a similar pace more or less for quite some time? Yes.
It's been pretty steady so I think that's a fair way to look at it Matt.
Good way of thinking of it.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Market.
There's been a lot of stuff -- earnings out as far as I'm all over the place.
But did you address the loan demand? And also especially like I think you had a big drive this year to drive small business loans.
And I wonder can you give us an update on that? Yes.
We did address loan demand.
Our loans were up sequentially from the first to the second quarter by $766 million.
The core loan portfolio grew $5.8 billion from the first quarter.
The loan growth was strongest in our commercial portfolio at $7.5 billion which is up about 2% from the quarter.
And then the runoff of the liquidating portfolio was down about $5 billion.
And one of the areas that we grew -- I think we got an award actually in the second quarter for the SBA who is our small business area.
And those loans were up.
Small business or SBA.
There's been a couple banks out there saying that in mid-May they saw loan demand kind of dry up due to some of the headlines from the debt ceiling talks in overseas.
Have you seen loan demand consistent throughout the quarter and even into July? We saw loan demand consistent throughout the quarter.
Overall.
Every area is going to be a little different but overall loan demand was pretty consistent.
And I think that just -- that reflects the balance of our diversified model.
We're not dependent on one specific area which is pretty exciting.
Not only -- but also by geography.
By geography too.
Yes.
And by product type.
So did you see consistent across geography? Was there certain areas that you saw better loan demand than others? It's not necessarily by geography different but surely difference based on the kind of business it is.
Those who have commodities that they're selling as commodity prices go up or down you'll see more inventory financing.
Agriculture we're the largest U.S.
lender to agriculture and people putting crops in and doing things and buying fertilizer we're financing.
That's just more I would say business-specific or industry-specific as opposed to geography-specific.
Your next question comes from the line of Fred Cannon with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the capital discussion.
I mean we are expecting to get some word this week out of the Basel committee on how they define global systemically important companies.
I'm wondering any thoughts in terms of where Wells falls into that? Your thoughts on that number one.
And number two with 7.4% Tier 1 common under Basel III that looks quite healthy relative to the 7%.
Should we expect continued capital accumulation in the next year or 2 or can we expect that to level off at some point? Fred we did get more information since the last call.
And now the beta ask [ph] seems to be between the 1% and 2.5%.
And they also shared as you've all read some of the criteria that gets you closer to the 1% or closer to 2.5% based on size interconnectedness complexity.
On some of those measures we don't even hit the scale.
We're so -- whatever the opposite of interconnected is not connected and not complex.
So we've not been told our number and we'll know more as you'll know more.
But my expectation is that whatever the number is I'm expecting it to be in the low to moderate side.
And whatever you add that to the 7% I just don't see this is an issue for us as I mentioned in my comments.
And we can't wait here to return more capital to our shareholders our very loyal stockholders for a long time.
And if you think of the kind of earnings we have today and the capital accumulation.
I mean you can just do your own math.
This is just not a big issue for us as I see it today.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Great okay.
And just on that John once we get those numbers would you like to operate any kind of strategic sense of where you'd like to operate how much of above that or pretty close to it? Wells Fargo has always had this bias and view of strong capital.
We even did that before Basel -- I even knew where Basel was or anything about the accords.
And that's the history of the company and what it gives you is the financial flexibility to do a Wachovia or do strategic things that really are important at a time when that capital really matters then.
But we'll have to see what the numbers are and what the rules are and how it all comes down.
So it's a little too early to comment on that.
But again just we've got another 6 quarters or so before the start of 2013 and I just don't see this as a big issue.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> And just one more in terms of the loan growth one thing I don't think you've talked about too much was credit cards.
It looks like you got some pretty good fee growth quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year.
It's still a relatively small portfolio compared to your peers.
Any color on that portfolio or opportunities? Sure.
So we have something in the range of 28 million plus retail checking accounts and the penetration of credit cards in the East is about 14.5% of our retail checking accounts have a credit card.
It's 2.5 or 3x more than that on the West.
We think there's huge opportunity here.
And I can't wait to get a credit card in every one of our customers our credit-worthy customers' wallets.
And not only get in there to be the dominant card or the primary card.
So I think there's huge organic opportunity here.
We like that business from a customer perspective and not only for the transaction volume that they do.
But it's a good -- it's another payments product.
So we think there's big opportunity.
And again we're growing checking accounts also very quickly.
So as we're catching the train the train is also moving here which is a good thing.
Net checking accounts are up on the retail side 7% year-over-year.
Those are big numbers because it's off a big base.
Your next question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Could you expand a little bit in terms of your earlier comments John about capital deployment and how you see kind of the mix between further purchases of drops stock buyback you've done obviously some of both this quarter and whether any acquisitions for cash also fit into that category? Okay.
Again so let's start with the idea that we like a strong capital position.
It's part of our history.
We have some instruments some hybrids that are not going to fit into the capital regime going forward.
And at an appropriate time and it'll take a process we will look to deal with those eliminate some of those.
And then the key will be how do you deploy your capital? And I think the first call on capital -- or one of the calls is to support the business.
We think we're a growth business.
And acquisitions are a part of that but also organic growth is also part of it adding people adding distribution capabilities and so forth.
I've said this publicly the acquisitions that look most opportunistic or promising would be help build out our Wealth Brokerage Retirement area.
We like that business a lot.
We have opportunities to gain share there and have that share be more relative to the share we have in the business compared to our deposit business.
We have opportunities I think in the insurance distribution business.
We could -- so there's just opportunities like that.
With respect to -- and then the rest should be once you get to your numbers should be returned to shareholders.
It's their capital.
It's your capital.
And we'll do that through -- there's an annual process now to -- with our regulator.
And then we'll also -- and part of that is dividends and part of that is stock repurchase which we've done some in the first half of the year.
And so you should expect that we have a strong bias to return capital to shareholders if we can't use it internally or don't need it.
Kind of on a separate question.
When I think about that $125 million for the settlement obviously country-wide there's something of an [indiscernible] but even just using their kind of loss expectations we still would've come up with a higher number.
Just can you talk a little bit about how that settlement was reached and what it encompasses? Well I won't talk about how it was reached but I'll talk about how it was -- first of all think of that as securities.
So you've got to separate reps and warranties kinds of settlements and litigation from securities law.
This related to securities issues and it's a settlement that involves most of the purchasers of those securities.
You first have to think.
So let's think about first of all securities and then think about reps and warranties.
But everything starts with the quality of the portfolio.
So you go to Page 20 and look at that portfolio and look at the dichotomy the differences.
And remember in our numbers and the 7.2 is also some of the stuff that's on balance sheet.
Pick-a-Pay which is in that.
So if you took that out it'd even be a better number of what we sold.
So how I think about the reps and warranties side the portfolio is different than our competitors.
Some of the riskiest or more problematic portfolios we have on balance sheet.
And we've dealt with the rep and warranty cost through our PCI process.
So we don't live that way.
And in our $125 million it's still a lot of money.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Morford with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Just following up on Paul's questions I guess.
CNI balances in particular were up nicely from the first quarter.
And I just wonder if you could talk more about what was driving that.
Any particular businesses? Was it more kind of large corporate or middle market? Did you see line utilization tick up at all? And any comments just in general on the competitive environment.
Yes a good question.
I think the first point is that we do not see much line utilization which makes the growth that much more impressive from my perspective that's number one.
Number two it was really broad based across the entire wholesale platform.
We saw it in commercial banking real estate corporate banking capital finance asset-backed finance and international.
So it was good that it wasn't just based upon line utilization and it was great that it was broad based.
LLC</strong> And then any comments on the competitive environment right now? You know what it's competitive out there.
I mean it's always going to be competitive.
I think that depending upon the business it's probably a little bit more competitive than others.
It's probably a bit more competitive at the high end in some of the large corporate when there's investment banking opportunities but it's certainly a very reasonable environment.
We like our chances in this environment given how much we've grown customers over the last couple of years because we were there for people when things were a little bit tough.
Your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
Three questions for you.
On the Pick-a-Pay portfolio do you continue to try to convert those loans to a "more normal" type of amortizing loan? Can you just speak to sort of ongoing restructuring efforts in that portfolio? Absolutely.
Yes.
I mean we're trying to any time we have an opportunity to modify a loan on a makes-sense basis for a customer and for us we're going to do it.
And we'll continue to do that.
I think that's one of the reasons why the portfolio continues to perform better than our initial expectations because we got at it very quickly.
You have a sense of how -- I mean at what point will that portfolio essentially disappear? I mean is there still sort of a half life on it at this point? Yes I would think of it that way.
First of all let me just say on the loans that have an option to them about 56%.
So less than 60% overall today has the Pay option if you will.
And that's down substantially from where it was when we started out.
But some of these customers are -- these portfolios were built earlier.
The average loan balance is in the 200 range for the ones that were not marked if you will.
And about 1 000 for the ones that were marked.
So this will probably behave much like a real estate first mortgage portfolio as it is over time.
So there will be a tail here.
But it's a 10-year -- you should think about it as a 10-year portfolio Nancy.
Secondly I know it's very early on in the expense reduction of the Project Compass days.
But do you have any sense very roughly at this point how much of the expense reductions are going to come from sort of frontline branch activities versus non-branch? Well most of it's -- very little going is going to come from frontline branch activity.
And let me just go back we've been working on Project Compass for a year.
And one of the reasons why we started a year ago is because we wanted to make sure that it was a bottoms-up process.
So it was focused on improving how our team members do their jobs and how they interact with our customers right.
It's not hard to reduce expenses at the expense of revenue right.
And we're just not going to do that.
We want to continue to grow revenue during this time period.
So when you think about Project Compass I would think about in a reduction in merger integration expenses we're nearing the tail end of the merger.
It's costing us between $400 million and $500 million a quarter.
Then you think about the reduction in loss mitigation expenses and then it's going to come much more from staff and back-office type functions as opposed to the frontline.
We want to continue to invest in our frontline bankers and stores as we've done in the East in our relationship managers in wholesale and our financial advisors in Wealth Brokerage and Retirement to take advantage of the opportunities we have out there.
Nancy I've been convinced for 25 years now that distribution matters.
And we were convinced that when people were saying it didn't matter and it wouldn't be around anymore.
And now you're having people -- then everybody said this was just mere [ph] and now you're kind of getting some saying it doesn't [indiscernible].
We think it does.
And you should expect more stores net stores we're still opening stores.
And you should expect more people in the stores in the East.
I mean that's -- we wouldn't be growing the accounts that we are without it.
So now that does not mean the store make up might not change.
We continue to innovate.
I mean today we have about 5 billion retail transactions a year.
And 2.5 billion half of those are online.
Another 300 million or 400 million are on mobiles.
I mean so we continue to innovate and change.
In the store design make up what we do there we continue to think about that.
But distribution matters big-time.
And finally just Tim do have an estimate of the tangible book value per share for Wells Fargo? I know that's a metric you guys don't think that much about or really present that much but do you have the number? And if so can you just kind of walk us through how you come up with it? You know what Nancy Jim will give you a call on that.
We're so interested in Basel we don't think of that.
Well unfortunately the market still does from time to time.
Seriously we'll get you that number.
And I don't have it at the top.
I mean I...
Your final question will come from the line of Chris Mutascio with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Two quick questions.
Do your litigation reserves take into account the civil money penalties that could be coming about from the federal regulators and/or the AG settlements that may be coming? It's the best estimate we have for everything we know today.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up John my fear is that the AGs will look at the penalties or fines whatever they want to do and they'll prorate it based on originations or based on servicing book and not based on the quality of the servicing book which you showed in your slides is much better than others.
Is my fear justified? And if it is justified do you balk and take your chances in court? I think what we should think about that is that our portfolio is different from others.
And we're very proud of the prudence we had.
We didn't do everything right but the prudence we had.
And we tell the Wells Fargo story in plain English when we have those kind of discussions.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Are they listening? We say it in plain English.
Thank you very much.
Very much appreciate all of you on the phone.
And we will see you next quarter at this time.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's Wells Fargo Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that today's call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe.
Thank you Regina.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf and our CFO Tim Sloan will review third quarter results and answer your questions.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that our third quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website.
I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.
Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can also be found in our SEC filings in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website at wellsfargo.com.
I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf.
Thanks Jim.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
We produced record results in the third quarter despite a choppy economic environment as we continue to execute Wells Fargo's diversified business model which has guided us for decades.
Our diversified businesses generated record net income of $4.1 billion in the third quarter an increase of 21% from a year ago and a record EPS of $0.72 an increase of 20% from a year ago.
Our focus on meeting our customers' financial needs led to robust deposit growth and our strongest quarterly loan growth since our merger with Wachovia almost 3 years ago.
We also benefited this quarter from lower expenses and continued improvement in credit quality.
As the economic environment and recovery remains uneven Wells Fargo has not wavered from our commitment to do all we can to help our customers and the overall economy.
For example we remain committed to helping homeowners stay in their homes.
Since 2009 we have hosted 40 preservation workshops opened 27 home preservation centers initiated over 716 000 active trial or completed mortgage modifications.
Within our Pick-a-Pay portfolio alone we have forgiven over $4 billion of principal since we acquired this portfolio from Wachovia and modified approximately 1/3 of our total Pick-a-Pay loans as we strive to give customers an affordable sustainable payment.
We are also lending providing companies with funds to invest for growth and job creation.
As the #1 small business lender for 9 consecutive years we are committed to helping small businesses succeed by actively lending.
During the first 3 quarters of this year we made over $10 billion in new loan commitments to our small business customers an 8% increase from a year ago.
We are also the #1 lender to middle-sized companies and we've grown loans to middle market commercial customers for 14 straight months.
And we continue to lend throughout our businesses both commercial and consumer with our core loan portfolio growing by $13.5 billion in the third quarter alone.
In addition to serving the financial needs of our business and individual customers every day we also strengthen our communities in many other ways.
Wells Fargo employs 1 in every 500 Americans.
And last year we contributed $219 million to 19 000 nonprofits across U.S.
making us America's third most generous cash donor according to The Chronicle of Philanthropy.
Our team members throughout the country are active volunteers in the communities where they live and work volunteering a total of over 900 000 hours during the first 9 months of this year alone.
We know that with each community's success comes our success.
I also want to highlight a very important milestone that occurred this past weekend.
We completed our last retail banking state conversion North Carolina.
With all our banking stores in the U.S.
operating under the Wells Fargo brand I believe we now have the best leadership team the best products and services and the best distribution system we've ever had at Wells Fargo.
Our successful integration reflects an incredible effort made by our entire team.
Since we first started working to integrate Wachovia almost 3 years ago we've converted over 3 000 Wachovia retail banking stores and more than 38 million customer accounts including mortgage deposits trust brokerage and credit cards onto one common platform.
While the effort required to convert Wachovia stores and millions of accounts was tremendous the real measure of success will be our ability to retain and grow customer relationships in the East and throughout our franchise going forward as One Wells Fargo.
A cornerstone of those relationships and one of the most valuable parts of our franchise is our ability to attract and retain core deposits.
Since the merger with Wachovia we have grown checking and savings accounts by -- deposits by $185 billion.
That's just in 3 years.
We achieved this growth through building relationships with customers not pricing.
In fact our average deposit costs were only 25 basis points in the third quarter.
So with the Wachovia integration nearing successful completion we remain focused on Wells Fargo's time-tested formula for success an unwavering focus on helping our customers succeed financially.
By focusing on our opportunities to better serve our customers and grow our businesses Wells Fargo has never been better positioned for future growth.
Let me now turn this over to Tim for more detail on our financial results.
Tim? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
My remarks which will take approximately 20 minutes will follow the presentation included in the first half of the quarterly supplement starting on Page 2.
John and I will then take your questions.
As John highlighted we had record earnings of $4.1 billion in the third quarter up 3% from the second quarter and 21% from a year ago.
And we achieved record EPS of $0.72 also up 3% from last quarter and 20% from a year ago.
During a continued period of economic volatility our diversified model has performed for our shareholders with 4 consecutive quarters of earning asset growth and 7 consecutive quarters of EPS growth.
It is important to note that while our total revenue was down $758 million compared with the second quarter half of this decline was from items that are relatively neutral to the bottom line lower deferred compensation plan investment results and seasonally lower insurance which have offsets in expenses and the rest of the decline is due to lower equity gains.
Our pretax pre-provision profit increased slightly in the quarter to $8 billion.
Our ROA remained strong at 1.26% and our ROE was 11.86% up almost 100 basis points from a year ago.
These results generated strong internal capital growth producing an estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under current Basel III capital proposals of 7.4%.
We remain focused on meeting the required capital levels once Basel III is finalized while returning capital to our shareholders through dividends and share buybacks.
On Page 3 we highlight our diversified business model our results this quarter and the business momentum we see ahead derived from our basic banking strategy and the diversity of our businesses.
This is a major differentiator for Wells Fargo.
In the third quarter we remained balanced between consumer and commercial loans and fee and spread income and our sources of fee income were broadly diversified.
Each quarter is different in terms of which customer segments or businesses drive results.
But as we've demonstrated through many different economic environments our business model provides us with a tested ability to perform over time and through cycles.
It is also important to note that our performance has not come at the expense of risk discipline as we believe we maintain one of the lowest risk profiles in our industry.
Let me take a minute upfront to highlight some of the key business drivers this quarter and I'll follow up with more detail later in my remarks.
Starting with the balance sheet.
We generated strong loan growth this quarter with our core loan portfolio up $13.5 billion or 2% from the second quarter which excludes the expected $5.3 billion runoff from a liquidating portfolio.
By staying consistent and serving customers when the market were soft we're now benefiting from the relationships that we've developed over the last few years.
We also actively deployed some of our liquidity this quarter with our securities portfolio increasing $20.9 billion as we increase purchase activity.
We also generated exceptionally strong deposit growth with balances up $41.8 billion driven by a flight to quality and new account growth.
This strong deposit growth was the primary driver behind the decline in the NIM this quarter accounting for about 70% of the change from the second quarter but with slightly positive to net interest income.
We also lowered our other funding costs by reducing long-term debt by $9.7 billion and we called $5.8 billion of high-cost trust preferred securities in the third quarter which were redeemed earlier this month.
This redemption will benefit net interest income and NIM starting in the fourth quarter.
Let me now turn to the income statement.
Net interest income was down $136 million as balance sheet repricing and lower variable income was partially offset by growth in loans securities and the mortgage warehouse as well as one extra day in the quarter.
Turning to the fee side we had revenue growth in many of our businesses including an increase of over $200 million in mortgage banking.
If you isolate our revenue items that are market-sensitive trading debt and equity gains these 3 items again generated positive results $202 million of revenue this quarter.
The linked quarter decline in market-sensitive revenue of $808 million was due to 4 factors.
First as I've mentioned equity gains declined  $380 million from very strong second quarter equity investment business results.
Second trading losses included a $234 million linked-quarter decline in deferred compensation plan investment results which reduced employee benefits' expense by approximately the same amount so no overall impact to the bottom line.
Third a loss and a gain on resolving 2 legacy Wachovia positions partially offset one another but reduced market-sensitive revenue by $106 million.
And finally customer-driven trading results were down $108 million from the second quarter on weaker market conditions.
Noninterest expense declined $798 million from the second quarter which included the $235 million redemption from deferred compensation.
The linked-quarter decline was also driven by $108 million in lower merger integration expenses and $230 million in lower operating losses reflecting lower litigation accruals.
Let me now cover our results in more detail.
As shown on Page 6 period-end loans were up $8.2 billion from the second quarter reflecting our commitment to our commercial and retail customers through this period of economic uncertainty.
Most of this growth came near the end of the quarter and therefore our average loans were up just $3.3 billion.
Loan growth was once again driven by our commercial portfolio which grew $9.1 billion or 3% from the second quarter and was diverse across our commercial businesses.
This growth also reflects our ability to capitalize on the opportunities generated in the business environment including the purchase of $1.1 billion in loans from the Bank of Ireland which were all U.S.-based and largely all commercial real estate.
Excluding the runoff of $4.5 billion of liquidating consumer loans core consumer loans grew $3.5 billion.
Loans grew in a number of consumer portfolios including mortgage core auto credit card and private student lending.
The runoff of the liquidating portfolio continued as expected down $5.3 billion from the second quarter and down $74 billion or 39% since the Wachovia merger.
As I mentioned earlier deposit growth was exceptionally strong this quarter driven by both the flight to quality and new account growth.
Average core deposits were up $29.4 billion from the second quarter and up $64.9 billion or 8% from a year ago and were 111% of average loans.
Average core checking and savings deposits were $769 billion up 12% from a year ago and were 92% of average core deposits.
Consumer checking accounts were up 5.6% from a year ago and we experienced strong growth throughout our markets including 7% growth in California and 9.8% growth in North Carolina.
We continue to be effective in lowering funding costs with average deposit cost declining 25 basis points down 3 basis points from the second quarter and 10 basis points from a year ago evidence that we still have the ability to reprice deposits even in this low rate environment.
This strong deposit growth will benefit Wells Fargo over time as we grow our relationship with new customers and use these deposits to fund future loan and securities growth.
But as I mentioned earlier this growth was diluted to NIM this quarter which is why we've always said we don't manage to the NIM.
Our goal is to generate more business from our existing customers and grow our customer base and that may increase or decrease NIM in any given quarter.
Instead we manage our business with a focus on net interest income and this is how we return value to our shareholders.
Our net interest income declined $137 million from the second quarter.
Let me highlight the drivers on Page 8.
First lower income from balance sheet repricing which was partially offset by growth in loans securities and the mortgage warehouse and while the expected runoff of our liquidating loans which had a weighted average yield of 5.61% puts downward pressure on net interest income these loans generally have higher charge-offs and cost more to service.
Second we had lower income from variable sources including loan prepayments and resolutions.
These factors were partially offset by the benefit of an extra day in the quarter.
Let me continue the discussion of net interest income on Page 9.
NIM and net interest income do not necessarily move in sync and this quarter was a great example of that.
The deposit growth we had this quarter actually had a small positive impact to net interest income of $13 million but was diluted -- but diluted our NIM by 12 basis points.
Growing net interest income remains our focus and the size and mix of earning assets are keys to achieving that goal.
The available-for-sale portfolio has grown by over $39 billion in the last 2 quarters and loans outstanding have grown nearly $9 billion despite the continued runoff of the liquidating portfolio.
The mortgage warehouse grew by $11.5 billion in the third quarter benefiting from the current refi wave.
While earning asset growth is the primary driver of net interest income growth our liability mix also influences our net interest income trends.
The benefit from the redemption of $5.8 billion of TRUPs will begin in the fourth quarter and the long-term debt outstanding was down $9.7 billion in the third quarter with an additional $9 billion maturing in the fourth quarter.
Obviously 3 of the biggest drivers of net interest income over time are the size and mix of our securities and loan portfolios and our funding cost.
Over the course of 2011 these have all moved in the right direction and we feel confident that that trend will continue.
Noninterest income was down $622 million from the second quarter driven by the $808 million linked-quarter decline in market-sensitive revenue that I highlighted earlier.
Trust and investment fees declined $158 million from the second quarter on lower brokerage transaction activity and weaker investment banking.
We generated linked-quarter growth in deposit service charges card fees other fees including charges and fees on loans mortgage banking and operating leases.
Mortgage banking revenue was up $214 million or 13% from the second quarter.
Originations increased $25 billion or 39% from the second quarter and application volume rose $60 billion or 55% during the quarter.
The unclosed mortgage pipeline increased $33 billion to $84 billion at the end of the quarter.
This is one of the largest pipelines we've had since the merger.
As it relates to revenue it is important to note we fair value our interest rate locks at the time of commitment but we recognize the majority of our gain at the time of funding.
Therefore the increase in applications in the third quarter should benefit fourth quarter revenue.
As a reminder last quarter we provided an update on the impact of Federal Reserve rules regarding debit interchange fees.
Our estimate is unchanged.
And starting in the fourth quarter we estimate these lower fees will reduce earnings by approximately $250 million quarterly after tax before any offsets.
We expect to recapture at least half of this over time through volume and product changes.
Noninterest expense declined $798 million or 6% from the second quarter.
The large linked-quarter decline was driven by few significant items.
$384 million decline in employee benefit expense this is where the $235 million decline in deferred compensation is reflected which was an offset in trading revenue.
Merger integration costs was $376 million down $108 million from the second quarter.
We had a $198 million of operating losses down $230 million driven by lower litigation accruals.
We had a $107 million decline in insurance expenses due to seasonally lower crop insurance which also reduced insurance revenues.
While we had strong reductions in expenses this quarter as we've said previously noninterest expense trends will vary from quarter to quarter but we are still targeting noninterest expense of $11 billion in the fourth quarter of 2012.
For example in the fourth quarter of this year we expect expenses to be higher than the third quarter driven by higher mortgage expenses as we had team members to capture increased revenue opportunities driven by refinance activity.
We also expect higher merger integration costs and we typically have seasonally higher fourth quarter expenses in a number of areas.
Also as we said last quarter when we provided our expense target we will continue to invest in our businesses and add team members where appropriate.
We expect to continue to have positive operating leverage and recognize savings as Project Compass is executed over the next 5 quarters.
Turning briefly to our segment results starting on Page 13.
Community Banking earned $2.3 billion up 11% from the second quarter driven by stronger mortgage banking revenue.
Sales trends remain strong.
Core product sales in the West were $8.8 million up 15% from the prior year and core product sales in the East continue to grow by double digits.
Retail banking cross-sell continued to grow to a record 5.91 products per household up from 5.68 a year ago.
Cross-sell in the East was 5.39 up from 5.10 a year ago.
The majority of our retail banking markets in the East were already converted by the third quarter which helped to accelerate cross-sell growth in these markets.
The East is also benefiting from more than 1 000 incremental platform banker FTEs added over the past year a 10% increase.
Wholesale Banking earned $1.8 billion down 6% from the second quarter driven by a 9% decline in revenue.
The decline in revenue was driven by lower capital markets trading and resolution income and seasonally lower insurance.
However most other businesses grew revenue such as commercial banking government banking capital finance asset-backed finance and international.
Wholesale Banking continued to generate strong broad-based loan growth from both new and existing customers with average loans up 4% from the second quarter.
This growth occurred in almost all portfolios including commercial banking international commercial real estate capital finance asset-backed finance government banking and corporate banking.
Average core deposits increased $19 billion from the second quarter up 10% our largest quarterly increase since the merger with Wachovia.
This growth reflects a combination of a flight to quality and the fact that our commercial customers are holding more liquidity.
Wealth Brokerage and Retirement earned $291 million down 13% from the second quarter driven by lower securities gains and reduced brokerage transaction revenue reflecting the lower market activity while credit quality continued to improve driving loan losses lower.
Average loans were stable from the second quarter with growth in brokerage-originated loans.
Average core deposits increased $7.4 billion up 6% from the second quarter reflecting both a flight to quality and our continued success in attracting client assets including deposits.
Managed account asset net flows remained strong despite market volatility.
Asset levels were down 9% from the second quarter reflecting the impact of the market decline.
Our continued focus on meeting our customers' financial needs is reflected in achieving an average cross-sell ratio of 10 products per WBR household.
Credit quality continued to improve as shown on Page 17.
We are very pleased with how our loan portfolios are performing.
Charge-offs declined for the seventh consecutive quarter down $227 million from the second quarter 52% below the peak in the fourth quarter of 2009.
While we continue to see positive trends in credit performance the rate of improvement moderated at some portfolios in the quarter as expected at this point in the credit cycle.
Provision expense was $1.8 billion down $27 million from the second quarter including an $800 million reserve release.
Absent significant deterioration in the economy we expect future reserve releases.
Other credit metrics showed continued improvement also.
Nonperforming assets were down $1.1 billion from the second quarter reflecting lower inflows of commercial nonaccrual loans.
Early-stage delinquency balances were down modestly while delinquency rates were stable.
The past few quarters I've discussed the quality of our mortgage servicing portfolio and why we believe it is among the best in the industry so I won't go into a lot of detail here.
But since the risks associated with mortgage servicing are still important to investors let me highlight just a few key items starting on Page 19.
The majority of our $1.8 trillion residential servicing portfolio or 69% is service for the agencies and only 6% are private securitizations where we originated the loans.
Reflecting the quality of our portfolio our delinquency and foreclosure rate is over 400 basis points lower than the industry average excluding Wells Fargo based on the most recent publicly available data.
Wells Fargo's total delinquency and foreclosure rate was 7.63% in the third quarter down from a peak of 8.96% in the fourth quarter but up modestly from the second quarter due to seasonality.
Losses on repurchases were up $123 million in the quarter but total demands outstanding were down in both number and balances for the fifth consecutive quarter and down approximately 50% from the third quarter of last year.
We added $390 million to the repurchased reserve this quarter up $148 million from the second quarter primarily due to an increase in demands from Fannie Mae on 2006 through 2008 vintage loans.
Demands from Freddie Mac continue to be consistent with our expectations.
As shown on Page 21 our strong internal capital generation continued and capital ratios grew.
Tier 1 common equity ratio increased to 9.35% up 20 basis points from the second quarter and up 134 basis points from a year ago.
Our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under current Basel III proposals grew to 7.4% this quarter.
$5.8 billion of trust preferreds were redeemed earlier this month with a weighted average coupon of 8.45%.
This redemption reduced our Tier 1 capital ratio in the third quarter but the benefit to net interest income and NIM will begin in the fourth quarter.
We repurchased 22 million shares in the third quarter and an additional estimated 6 million shares through a forward repurchase transaction that will settle in the fourth quarter of 2011.
We plan to continue to repurchase shares in the fourth quarter pursuant to our capital plan.
In summary our diversified business model continued to produce record results this quarter with earnings up 21% from a year ago.
In the quarter we saw continued growth in earning assets loans securities deposits and capital.
Many individual businesses both consumer and commercial generated revenue and loan growth.
By focusing on meeting our customers' financial needs we continued to generate very strong deposit growth and had the largest linked-quarter increase in loans in 11 quarters.
And based on current business trends we expect loan growth to continue.
We remain focused on our efforts targeting $11 billion in quarterly noninterest expense by the fourth quarter of 2012.
However next quarter we expect higher expenses driven by strong mortgage origination volumes which will also benefit revenue higher merger expenses and typical fourth quarter seasonality.
During the first 9 months of this year we've grown our securities portfolio by $35 billion in loans excluding the expected runoff were up by $20 billion.
Deposits have increased $47 billion.
Long-term debt is down $24 billion and we've redeemed 9 billion of TRUPs.
Clearly we have positioned our balance sheet very well for growth.
With the completion of the conversion of Wachovia banking stores this weekend we are very optimistic about the growth opportunities we have throughout our company operating as One Wells Fargo.
I will now open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of John McDonald with Sanford C.
Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Tim a question on the net interest income and the margin.
So first I guess of the 17 basis point drop you've mentioned 12 of it are due to deposits.
What were the other 5? What would you say that was driven by? You know what John it was a mix across a number of factors.
None of them really stood out.
It was the 5 basis point decline which really wasn't that significant.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you give us any feel for how much benefit you expect to get from the TRUPs retirement? Well just at the margin John you can take the 845 basis points and subtract it from a marginal cost of forms which this quarter was 25 basis points.
And then you can annualize that so it's pretty significant.
It's over $200 million I think after tax a year.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of additional TRUPs could you remind us what you have left and if some of that is still something that you'd consider calling? Well John we've got to move forward with our capital plan for next year and we've got a plan in terms of calling the TRUPs.
But in terms of specifically which TRUPs we'll call and when we're going to call I prefer not to be specific about that right now.
But as we did this quarter we're going to continue to be as aggressive as we can be in redeeming TRUPs pursuant to their terms as quickly as we can given the cost of those TRUPs and the fact that they're not added at the capital any longer.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just back on the margin and the $42 billion of the deposit inflow and that getting invested into a low-yielding securities what kind of stuff are you investing this deposit flow into and where can we look on the balance sheet to see these growing low-yielding asset accounts? Well John I didn't say they were going  into low-yielding.
I think they're going into securities.
First we want them to go into loans right? And again we're very pleased with the loan growth that we had in the second quarter and we feel poised for continued loan growth in the fourth quarter as it relates to the types of securities.
And we go through our standard quarterly process.
We look at what we think provides a good risk/return but it was a mix from shorter-term and high-quality securities all the way to medium-term as well as kind of longer-term securities.
So it's a mix.
There wasn't anything in particular.
It's just across all the categories in the statement.
John maybe I can just give you my sense.
The way I think about NIM is as Tim mentioned we don't run the company around the NIM.
We never have.
We really run it around trying to add long-term shareholder value and we think we can do that best by serving individuals and companies completely and deeply.
And the things that we can manage like loan growth and deposit growth and more customers and deeper relationships we're doing those sorts of things.
Because it's an unusual rate environment today some of that you don't get paid for right away.
And we are making investments and we had the best loan growth we've had in -- frankly since the merger.
And when we look at securities we look at safety quality.
We look at the duration and all those things.
And because of our strong deposit growth we still are a very liquid company but we continue to make investments as we see opportunistic opportunities.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Thanks John.
And one quick follow-up just on capital return.
John maybe you can comment on this.
Do you -- what is your hope in terms of next year's capital return into the buybacks and dividends? Do you hope to do more than you did this year in buybacks and dividends? And do you know the rules yet on that the Fed will hold you to in terms of 2012 capital distributions? The answer is I think yes and no.
So let me take the last question first.
We don't know what the SIFI reserve or the buffer is going to be.
We hope to hear sometime in the fourth quarter.
And you're right.
We have the annual plan coming up soon our capital plan that we will discuss with our regulators.
And we have stated publicly that -- I've stated publicly and I think we've also -- you've seen it in Tim's comments and other things that we've written that we want to return more capital to our shareholders.
And I don't want to get into specifics because the plan is just being developed now.
But I'm confident that given where we are today in the absolute number we're at 7.4% Tier 1 common Basel to the third degree.
And we're not that -- when you look at the risk profile of the company it's not on -- we're not global.
We don't have a lot of the risks that others do.
And on top of that we're generating just lots of internal capital.
So you put all that together and that's why I just don't worry about that.
And I want to get as much back to shareholders as fast as we can.
And dividends are an important part of it let me just say that.
The next question comes from the line of Joe Morford with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> You mentioned Tim much of the loan growth came late in the quarter.
I was wondering if you could talk about how customer sentiment evolved over the quarter and if you're seeing more confidence there recently.
And also maybe comment on kind of the risk-adjusted return opportunities you're seeing in the CRE area right now and competitive environment as well.
Yes it seems like a long time ago but there was a lot of volatility in the third quarter.
If you remember some of the things we watched on television in late July and then obviously there was a lot of concern and there still is about what's going on in Europe.
I think generally when you look at our customer base customer sentiment is good.
The economy continues to kind of bump along a little bit but the customer sentiment is good.
And as I said and will reiterate we feel good about loan growth in the quarter.
And I think one of the reasons why we feel good about it is that it's really broad-based.
As I mentioned and gave some examples in terms of loan growth both in our commercial or our wholesale and our consumer portfolios.
It's 7 8 9 10 businesses that are growing loans across the board.
It's not concentrated anywhere.
It's not one industry.
It's not one geography so we're feeling good about that.
And as it relates to CRE I think that the fact that we stayed consistent in that business over the cycle which was very difficult at times for the commercial real estate business is really paying dividends right now.
We're the largest commercial real estate lender in the country.
There's lots of opportunities to help our existing customers to refinance their existing loans as they buy new properties.
We can provide capital to them.
And then also as the CMBS market continues to mature and refinance there's opportunities there.
So overall the commercial real estate business and the risk-adjusted returns there are pretty attractive.
And also Joe as you noticed or you've probably read that we were able to buy some loans on opportunistic basis from some international competitors that are getting out of the U.S.
market.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes that's great and helpful.
I guess just one follow-up to John's question.
The buyback was a bit less this quarter despite the recent drop in the stock over the period and I guess any comments on that as part of your overall capital deployment plan.
Yes Joe that's a real fair question.
I think that when you think about our capital plan what you got to think about it being a very balanced plan right? And it's true that we bought back fewer shares of stock in the third quarter than we did in the second but on the other hand we also retired some pretty high-cost TRUPs.
And to reiterate we continue or we plan to continue to buy back shares this quarter.
Again we have a very measured and balanced plan that we want to execute to and we think by doing that it'll create some dividends as we go into the next capital planning cycle.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple follow-up questions on the NIM and just looking for the average balance you have on your supplement.
Looking at things like commercial and industrial loans which had deals come down pretty significantly and I just wanted to understand how much of that was driven by just the repricing that you have within the C&amp;I loan book because LIBOR came down or is that more net new borrowers coming on the balance sheet and you being competitive on pricing? Yes I think Betsy it wasn't any one specific category but it's a combination of some one-timers that we had in the second quarter versus the third quarter.
It also included some repricing in the existing book and then new loans on but it wasn't really any one specific item.
Research Division</strong> And when we think about that loan yield going forward I mean a lot of that book is priced off of floating LIBOR either 1 month 3 months or what have you.
Is it pretty much repriced at this stage or is there more to do? Well there's generally a little bit of a lag so that we've seen LIBOR start to tick up a little bit this month which should have a bit of a benefit.
But there's about a 1-month to 2-month lag on average.
Research Division</strong> And when you think about the TRUPs that you called in the quarter in the third quarter how much of an impact is that going to have on your NIM in fourth quarter? Off the top of my head I don't know.
Let us get back to you on that Betsy.
I'd be guessing right now but we'll get back to you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on incremental loans that you're interested in buying from folks that are exiting portfolios.
I mean how much risk are you looking to take onto the balance sheet? Are you only going to be playing in the higher investment-grade type of securities or in loans or are you willing to go into securities or loans that might be a little bit more costly from a capital perspective? Well I think it's really going to be a function of one what's available; and then two we've got to -- even though there's a lot of opportunity to buy securities and loans today we've got to be continued to be really measured and follow the risk discipline that we've had for years.
And so a long answer to your question but the point is I think we're going to buy across the spectrum as long as we're comfortable with the risk-adjusted returns.
Sometimes the pricing is attractive at the high end and sometimes at the low end.
There are a lot of securities and loans that are available today.
And I think this is really reflective of what is strong about Wells Fargo and that is this is the time in the cycle that because we had a risk discipline over the years in place we've got the opportunity to be a buyer today.
Yes Betsy let me add to that and I appreciate that question because I think you know us well enough.
We don't feel any sense of urgency to have to do something that does not make sense here.
I mean we're looking for value and the ones we bought in this last group happened to be the higher end and the more investment-grade names that we knew many customers we already had something out to.
But even though revenue was challenged this quarter I feel and our team feels no sense of improper urgency to do something that does not make sense for this company.
We just will not do that.
Research Division</strong> Would you prioritize growing the common Tier 1 ratio under Basel III or prioritizing earnings? Well I don't know that.
First of all I would say that the #1 priority is to develop more long-term profitable customer relationships.
That's what we get up in the morning to do.
And the result of that is we make money and when you make money you grow your capital.
Again when John asked a question about the Tier 1 common Basel III we're already at 7.4%.
I don't know what the buffer will be.
As I said before the bidding assets are between 1% and 2.5%.
We are clearly on the low end or to the left if that makes it less risky.
7.4 is already 40 basis points over the minimum.
And our capital generation we're putting tons of capital on the balance sheet every quarter now so I think it starts with relationships.
From that over time you make money and then you build capital.
Yes and just to add to that Betsy I don't think it's an either/or for us right now.
We can do both right? We can go out and we can buy assets that are for sale with good quality customers that we've appropriately underwritten.
And we can make money doing that and we can also grow capital.
It's really not an either/or.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Foran with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I guess as we think about mortgage in the fourth quarter I mean it would seem like gain on sale is going to be very high if not actually at record levels the percentage gain on sale for each loan.
And I mean is there any way to break apart how much of the expansion and gain on sale we've seen in this cycle is cyclical because of low rates capacity constraints in the industry et cetera and how much of it you think is secular given a more consolidated industry mainly of banks and hopefully more rational pricing? Yes you know what Brian I wish I was smart enough to know the answer to that question.
I just don't.
I mean I think what we're seeing is a very attractive mortgage market.
We worked long and hard to be the largest mortgage originator in the country and we're well positioned.
We've got a great team.
We're seeing a lot of good volume as we mentioned going into the fourth quarter.
But in terms of what percent of the margin is related to the industry and what percent is related to capacity really I don't know.
Brian I would make this comment.
Part of the reason that we're able to capture more share today is related to the fact that we don't have a lot of problems in our exiting portfolio.
I mean 400 basis points less in terms of delinquencies and foreclosures that's a lot.
Especially when you service 9 million mortgages or so that becomes a big big number.
So we've continued to invest in systems and in people and in training and compliance and outreach and even during the big refi booms we never lost our interest or hunger in serving the purchase money markets.
So what you're saying is right.
I mean they're good margins.
We've got a great pipeline and we're busy.
Research Division</strong> If I could ask a follow-up I guess on the bad side of the mortgage business right now on Page 28 you show $16.5 billion of FHA-insured guaranteed by the VA delinquent but still accruing loans.
I guess just in the spirit of things having put-backs and litigation risks having extended further than most of us thought this cycle is there anyway contractually that those loans any part of those loans could become the responsibility of Wells Fargo? Brian we have not seen any change in our relationship with the FHA/VA.
When a loan goes 90 days delinquent it's put back on the balance sheet.
We work through it.
That's what happened this quarter.
It happens every quarter.
And then once we work through it they honor their guarantee.
We haven't seen any change in that relationship at all.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I understand that you don't manage to the margin but given how the interest rate environment will be seemingly suboptimal for longer and I understand that you have taken steps to redeploy some of your liquidity already in the third quarter what would you have to see to be a little bit more aggressive in moving down your cash balances? Well Erika the first thing that -- the first call on liquidity and I think Tim mentioned this is to fund loans.
And when you think about it this quarter we had $13.5 billion of core loan growth.
That's a great quarter of loan growth and that's because we're out serving customers.
And I'm not going to predict what's going to happen in the fourth quarter.
But our people are busy and we're serving our retail household and the business households.
And we're always looking at the market and if we can get spreads that we think that are appropriate recognizing that we're at record low levels.
And we're not any better at market timing so we're careful and cautious as we do that.
And if you look at our cash balances they are pretty much on top of where they were a quarter ago even though we've made a fair amount of what we think high-quality shorter-term investments along the way.
You recognize one thing that we still don't know yet is the LCR the liquidity coverage ratio and that's important also.
So we are in a very balanced way moving forward here.
And do you have a sense from your conversations with Washington that there is a chance that the LCR in its final interpretation will likely get softened? I don't -- I'm not in the prediction business especially when it comes to Washington.
But I can tell you this our team has been very active and responsive to the requests so we could -- from Washington and other places to help them understand our view and the calibration and what happened during previous times with previous companies and so forth and what happened with deposit runoff and loan line takedowns during times of stress so we think we have something to offer there.
Okay.
And just one last follow-up question.
I just wanted to ask one of Betsy's questions another way.
I think a lot of investors were concerned about the C&amp;I decline in terms of the yield and I understand there's a lot of puts and takes in this line item.
But if you look at your pipeline of new originations and you've told us that loan growth prospects are quite strong and you look at what's set to renew I guess should we see or should we expect a similar quarterly decline next quarter aside from the movements in LIBOR? Yes we're too early in the quarter to be able to have any specific -- or give you a real specific answer to that question because we're going to have loans that aren't even in the pipeline right now.
They're going to close toward the end of the year so I don't know the answer to your question.
The point is I think from our perspective is that loan growth is real strong right now.
And think of it this way Erika.
A lot of loan growth we had in the third quarter didn't come until later in the quarter.
We have some purchases that we've made that will close in the fourth quarter that have been announced.
And a lot of what's happened in mortgage has not yet come through so think of it in those terms.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Hagerman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Tim and John just going back to the capital question.
I understand that Tim you mentioned you have a very balanced very measured approach in terms of your capital plan.
But the thing about the 2012 CCAR program and the Fed process it appears that number one the Fed is taking more active role in terms of determining the kind of the various scenarios for the program; and then two it appears that the Feds are also taking a more conservative view as it relates to their concerns surrounding systemic capital risk.
And as I look at your buyback for example and I listened to some of your competitors how do you think about that 2012 program in terms of -- you mentioned the uncertainty in terms of the operating environment.
You talked about the TRUPs potential.
But how do we think about Wells Fargo being more or less aggressive with the plan going in the 2012 given your capital generation and what appears to be a heightened concern on the part of Fed with capital and buybacks? Say Todd let me just give you a sense before Tim talks about the numbers.
The best thing we can do the most aggressive thing we could do is serve our customers really really well and produce great results and have a low risk profile for our company and have lots of capital generation internally.
We do all those things well.
We can achieve the kinds of things our shareholders want i.e.
returning capital to them as quickly as we can.
And one of my biases is dividends.
I don't know what we can -- well if you can add something to that Tim? Well I think Todd we haven't seen any major change in terms of our relationship with the Fed in terms of how they're looking at this next CCAR process versus a year ago.
And again I would step back and put this into perspective.
Think about what our balance sheet what our earnings what our capital level was a year ago at this time and then compare them to where we are today.
Losses are down.
Nonperforming's down.
Credit's improved.
We're generating a lot more earnings right? And we have more liquidity and we have more capital to start with.
So we don't go into this next CCAR process being pessimistic at all.
We got a great story to tell.
We got a great relationship.
We're going to make a proposal and we're looking forward to working with the Fed.
Research Division</strong> That's actually very helpful.
I appreciate that.
And if I could John just a follow-up or a question just in terms of the update on the AG settlement with California in particular opting out opting in just your latest thoughts in terms of the settlement process how that may evolve as you currently see it.
There's nothing there to report.
Research Division</strong> Positive negative? There's just if -- no there's nothing new to report.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Listen just a follow-up on Brian's questions a little bit on the mortgage banking side.
The big announcement this quarter well we all know it's Bank of America getting out of the correspondent business.
And it sure looks like some of these bigger guys are pulling back capacity especially in the wholesale and correspondent business.
Does that give an opportunity for Wells Fargo to expand capacity in that business? Yes I think that it's fair to say that we've had a lot of opportunity to grow capacity today across the board not just because of the correspondent business alone but I think the key is to make sure you do it in a real measured way because there are lots of correspondents that we'd like to do more business with and some we wouldn't.
But that's not the primary driver for why our refis are up.
Our refis are up because we already have a great servicing customer base.
In fact Paul that's one of the things that I think is missed a lot.
We have like a 25% or 26% share of overall originations.
But it's much higher on the refinance because of the fact that our people do such a great job in servicing we get a disproportionate higher number of people refinancing with us because of our servicing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the other issue is and I hear it a lot from my contacts in the industry is that -- and you've seen some of the notes I've written where the government is being tougher and tougher accepting mortgages now.
Does that give an opportunity for you to start to find some niches on your balance sheet and put some decent loans on your balance sheet that's not necessarily jumbos but just doesn't fit the -- there could be Fannie and Freddie and FHA boxes? Well we wouldn't put loans on our balance sheet just because the government didn't like them.
We put loans on our balance sheet if they provided a good risk/return.
But there's no question in this environment that there's some good risk/return relative to other ways that we can deploy our liquidity and mortgage is one of them.
That's an opportunity Paul clearly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last question.
On the jumbo market you saw that the FHA -- I mean they're lowering the jumbo spreads a little bit.
Are you seeing a pickup in signing of that jumbo product or is that just really difficult? It's pretty early yet.
Your next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had a question -- actually 2 questions.
One is the deployment of liquidity into loans and securities.
So you put about $39 billion into securities and about almost $10 billion into loans.
What types of assets are you looking and what kind of yield characteristics and duration are you trying to peg as you're going through that process? Yes on the security side Marty it's really across the board.
We really look at the risk-adjusted return based upon what's out there today right? And so a portion went into short-term -- shorter-term very high-quality investments and then a portion went into medium-term and some longer-term durations.
Obviously there's more assets out there to buy than there were a few months ago.
On the loan side again it's across the board.
We feel really pleased that we're seeing loan growth in a number of our businesses and not just 1 or 2.
And then as John mentioned and we gave a couple of examples we're also able to buy loans in the market today so it's not one specific area.
It's across the board and I think that just reinforces the value of the diversified model.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then when you're looking at revenue compression from last quarter this quarter you really have -- it looks like almost 3 components.
The market sensitive is really going down over $800 million.
You can kind of take some of those pluses and minuses and it looks like that probably netted out to about a $0.02 impact negative from second to third quarter.
And then you got mortgage offsetting the decline in what you would see in net interest income.
The market-sensitive revenues how do you look at that? And do you think that some of the uncertainty that we hit in this quarter you'll begin to see some improvement or did you see any improvement in that line as we moved through the quarter into the fourth quarter? Well Marty I think you're right.
And as we pointed out there's some puts and takes in the market-sensitive revenue so the $808 million is not what I would think about as a run rate basis particularly compared to the second quarter because you also had an outsized gain in the second quarter that we called out then that we didn't have in the third quarter.
I don't know what is going to happen in the capital markets in the next few months.
They feel like they've settled down today but you know what you could have made that same statement in July and you could have made that same statement in the middle of August.
I think the important thing as it relates to the capital markets is make sure that you're focused on serving your customers make sure that you've got good risk discipline in place so you're not sitting on a bunch of loans that you have to sell or other securities that you have to mark in a significant way.
And again we think that we're pretty good at that.
We've got a good team in place.
We're being thoughtful about being focused on customers so we're not overly concerned about our capital markets activity at all.
LLC Research Division</strong> And lastly would you say that your guidance on expenses saying that it's going to go up in the fourth quarter is primarily tied to the improvement that you see in your mortgage banking fee income? Well there's no question that we're going to have increases in expenses related to bringing on team members to support underwrite and close the mortgage pipeline that we're seeing.
That will be part of it.
But also we're still in the midst of an integration.
As John mentioned we had a milestone this weekend.
And so the timing of those expenses happen when they happen.
And our guess is there's going to be more of them in the fourth quarter than there were in the third quarter.
And then also there's generally some seasonality in all of our expense line items so we'll probably get a little bit of a pickup there as we saw in the fourth quarter last year.
But again we want to be really clear that we've made a lot of progress in terms of reducing our expenses this quarter.
We continue to believe that we're going to make a lot of progress and reiterate our goal of getting to an $11 billion run rate by the fourth quarter next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I'm looking at your business optimization expenses down $363 million linked quarter.
So what is that since that fueled a lot of the expense improvement? Yes so that would've included a number of different items.
None of them were candidly very significant Mike.
I mean it's a bit here a bit there and it all totaled up to be the differential that's in the numbers.
Research Division</strong> But those are permanent savings? Well there's always some timing in your expenses but I would -- I guess the important thing is that we wanted to call out the fact that we didn't believe that that $758 million reduction in expenses that we saw from the second quarter to the third quarter was all permanent right? We called out the $234 million of deferred comp differential and we've mentioned that integration costs were a little bit low so I think the permanent reduction is less than that.
And again we think fourth quarter is going to be a little bit higher but we'll get to the $11 billion number.
Research Division</strong> And I guess we're kind of dancing around the question.
So do you think revenues will outpace expenses? Linked quarter it looks like it was a tie revenues and expenses both down $800 million.
So as we look out which will win revenues or expenses? Well I think over the long term revenues are going to beat expenses Mike.
Research Division</strong> And by the end of next year which is the end of your Compass initiatives? Revenues are going to beat expenses.
In fact Mike that's the only way to run a successful company.
And they're short term.
We can't tell from quarter to quarter and we wouldn't try to predict that.
But when you do the right thing over a long period of time invest in your people your distribution your customers serve them well serve them broadly and deeply revenue wins in that race.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so yes the key milestone then for us looking at the company would be the end of next year we should see revenues surpass expenses if you achieve your target if I heard that correctly? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then completely separate you mentioned the foreclosure rate.
You're doing everything you can to keep homeowners in their houses but there are some houses that are owned as second properties or speculators or are empty.
So my question is what percent of homes that you foreclose on are not the primary residence of an individual that's living in the home? I don't know that number but I can tell you that when we get to our foreclosure customers on average are about 16 months past due and of the primary residence about 25% have already abandoned the property.
But I don't have the second home off the top of my head.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on Page 27 of the handout where -- it's the page where you go through the PCI accretable yield.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And you outlined the expected cash flows.
It went up this quarter by about $2.5 billion which drove the total accretable yield number up from $14.9 billion to $16.9 billion.
Right.
Research Division</strong> And then on a bullet down there you say most of that came from the Pick-a-Pay portfolio.
So I guess I'm just looking for some insight on what drove your expected cash flow on the Pick-a-Pay portfolio up that much during the quarter and then if any meaningful amount of the total accretable yield difference came from somewhere other than the Pick-a-Pay portfolio.
Yes it's a fair question.
I think as you know we look at this estimate every quarter.
And there are lots of different factors that drive their assumptions.
There's interest rate assumptions.
There's liquidation timing modification assumptions and their performance.
And the performance in the Pick-a-Pay portfolio continues to be very strong.
So it wasn't any one of those in particular.
It was the combination of all of them.
But again we've had really good experience to date in terms of the performance of that Pick-a-Pay portfolio but that was the primary driver for the $2.5 billion increase.
Research Division</strong> Do you expect that number to keep going higher? And could you remind us when we look at that $16.9 billion balance sort of how you think about the weighted average or what is the weighted average duration of that $16.9 billion? Well on Page 28 and Page 29 we show the weighted average life on commercial as well as Pick-a-Pay.
And I would say that the average is approximately 11 years or 10 to 11 years because the lion's share of that yield is on the Pick-a-Pay side so it's going to be around for a long period of time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And no outlook in terms of where that 16.9 number.
In terms of the number no.
I wouldn't -- I'd be guessing if there was a more specific outlook.
I mean look at -- as I said we look at the assumptions and the flows kind of each quarter and come up with what we think say a reasonable estimate and that's what we have here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Thanks Tim.
And then as a quick follow-up just looking at your average balance sheet and your mortgage-backed securities yield that was one of the asset yields that came down a lot during the quarter down I think by 62 basis points linked quarter.
And I think I understand that some of that decline was because of an increase in the size of the MBS portfolio and the investment of some of the deposit inflows.
But obviously probably a good chunk of it was from refinancing activity as well.
So I guess any insight as to how much more pressure you expect on that yield over the next quarter or 2 from refinancing pressure? I would -- there's no question that we had some impact on refinancing but I wouldn't say that's a big driver.
And we don't expect that to be a big driver going forward or at least more than what we saw this quarter.
The other reason that the yield went down is just in terms of some of the securities that we invested in this quarter.
Research Division</strong> But generally we should -- well I mean it seems likely that that number will continue to come down.
But any sense of how we should think about that from a pace standpoint in terms of that MBS average yield coming down? No I really don't have one for you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Bank of America recently announced the $5 fee and by my calculations that would recoup most of the loss from Durbin.
And if that's the industry standard or if that's one of the -- what some of the major competitors out there I guess why are you still more guarded and guiding that you can only recover half? And any idea how long it would take to recover what was lost on the Durbin side? Chris the way we think about that is our focus is on building lifelong relationships with our consumers.
And we have as you know grown checking and savings accounts dollars by $185 billion in 3 years.
And they're responding to the value the convenience and the choice that we're giving our consumers and there's real value here.
I mean we have the most stores of any bank.
We have 12 000 ATMs.
We give free online and free bill pay and all these sort of things.
So when you talk about how we're going to get paid for that we're testing things and we're going to learn.
Our customers will help us understand how they want to pay for that value that choice and that convenience.
And we'll learn from those tests and then we'll do what we think will be appropriate so we continue to grow households.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question I have it's more of a numbers question and I'm referring to Page 37 of the press release.
And it's just that on a Basel I basis your risk-weighted assets grew by about $8 billion but on a Basel III basis they grew by about $60 billion.
And I was wondering is that a new interpretation of the rules or there are different assets that you put on the balance sheet...
It's an interpretation of the rules right? And in fairness the rules aren't finalized yet.
But we're making our best guess as to what they are but that's the primary differential.
Research Division</strong> And can you flesh that out a little bit? I mean is it beginning to stabilize in your models and can you talk at all about what caused the difference there? I don't know if we can say it's going to stabilize because it's going to be a function of how we're going to grow the company right? I mean the easiest way to stabilize would be to shrink and we don't want to do that.
Research Division</strong> Well I meant under the rules or what caused the delta here and...
Well one thing is the OCI effects.
Are you talking about the difference between Basel I and Basel III? I mean that's an influence and we're refining.
Is that your question? Research Division</strong> No I guess my question was under Basel I your risk-weighted assets went up by $8 billion.
And under Basel III I'm looking at the prior press release and this press release side-by-side and your Basel III risk-weighted assets went from $1.1213 billion to $1.272 billion and it just seemed like a big increase.
Well again we had growth in the balance sheet this quarter right? And then we've got -- as we continue to refine our interpretation of Basel III we're going to make adjustments.
But again there wasn't anything significant and we don't really break that out on an asset class-by-asset class basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
There is sort of a shorthand in the market right now with regard to bank stocks that the larger your securities portfolio the more you're going to get hurt in the present rate environment.
You guys have always been very astute securities portfolio managers.
Could you just sort of address that? Well I appreciate the compliment.
First thank you.
What we want to do Nancy is look at where we see good risk/return.
As we've said for the last year as soon as rates started to really drop it would be really easy for us to grow revenue and to grow the net interest margin by just investing in long-dated securities.
And then we'd be more at risk for a backup when it comes and someday it will come.
I think from our perspective we want to look at good risk/return in terms of what's out there today.
There's a lot out there today in terms of securities that we can buy.
But we also want to make sure that we're pretty balanced in terms of short- medium- and long-duration assets.
We think we're fairly well positioned today because we have an unrecognized gain on the balance sheet that's still pretty significant.
I think it's still over $6 billion.
So we think we're in pretty good shape even if we saw a rate backup.
But again in a rate backup even if it might affect the unrecognized or unrealized gain it would be very beneficial for the rest of the company.
And again I think that is a testament to the balance model that we have.
Nancy I must look at -- I agree to everything Tim said and one of the things that is happening today we're not getting recognized or paid for the wonderful deposit franchise we have.
And there is real value there.
Rates won't stay this low forever.
They will back up and you're going to see the real quality of the liability side.
And in the interim things look different in the market today than they looked 9 months ago.
Some good and some of it's not good as far as we got QE IIs and twists and this and that and those things could have -- it surely will have an influence on rates.
But over time rates will rise and I think we are uniquely well positioned for that time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second question is this.
I think the CFPB announced last week that one of their first forays would be an examination of the mortgage servicers to basically make sure you're not doing bad things.
And it just seems to me that it's getting a little crowded in the mortgage servicing space right now.
Could you guys just sort of summarize for us these various regulatory issues or activities that are sort of swirling around your mortgage servicing portfolio right now? And do you have any idea of how much this is costing you? Yes you're correct Nancy that there's a lot of regulatory oversight in the mortgage servicing business today whether you're talking about the CFPB upcoming activities or any of the other regulators.
And we feel like we're implementing -- we began to implement changes last year.
We've continued to implement more changes pursuant to the consent order though the cost of those changes are included in all of our numbers right now.
Nancy think of it this way.
A lot has changed in the mortgage business.
It's really starting in 2008.
There is no -- this low-doc and liar loans and stated income is all history.
So if you look at the originations starting in -- it's really 2006 and 2008 vintages that we're working through.
But 2008 from then on it's really a different ballgame first of all.
Secondly on the foreclosure side as Tim mentioned we have made changes.
You're right.
There are a lot of people and regulators and so forth that are swirling around.
But in our case most of our production is done by our people on the direct side and we've been around this thing for a long time.
And I'm confident that we've got the right people leading that organization.
And you never know where all these things turn out but it's a very different environment today vis-à-vis 5 or 6 years ago.
Even we didn't participate in some of the most egregious things we held our discipline really well during that time not perfect but pretty darn well.
I can't predict what's going to happen next but it's a very different business.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just one final issue for you John.
I'm sure you're very well aware every day of Occupy Wall Street and Occupy Montgomery Street and all the other occupies that seem to be going on.
You did a good summary at the beginning of the call the stuff that Wells Fargo does I think that perhaps is not recognized: the charitable contributions the level of employment et cetera et cetera.
What do you and/or your banking industry peers need to do to make it known that the banking industry is not some big evil behemoth to out to crush the middle class? Well that is a good question.
First of all I understand some of the angst and the anger.
This downturn has been too long.
Unemployment is too high and people are hurting.
We get that.
We have 265 000 people which most of them are in the U.S.
We live and work in these communities.
We're committed to lead more hire more lend more be part of the solution.
And I don't think you do that through an advertising program.
You do that knee to knee street corner by street corner community by community and that's what we're committed to do.
LLC Research Division</strong> So no you don't see anything coming out of the industry that's sort of an answer to some of the stuff that's being put out there by the administration and others at this point? I think we're all in this thing together and I think we're all trying to respond in the most appropriate way of serving our communities serving each other helping to get the economy going.
And again I think this is very much about getting it done as opposed to some program of some type.
Your final question comes from the line of Chris Mutascio with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tim I got 2 reconciliation questions.
Forget about the margin for a second.
If I just look at net interest income dollars your average earning assets were $26 billion in the quarter.
Your deposit growth was slightly accretive to net interest income and the accretable yield contribution wasn't materially different than what it was in the second quarter and yet your net interest income dollars were down about $140 million sequentially.
What drove the dollars being down? Well it was a function of one-timers that we had in the second quarter.
It was a function of some security and loan runoff and it was a function of repricing but it was kind of all those together in terms of the decline.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Now it seems like if 12 of the 17 basis points of margin compression was deposit-related but the deposit was actually accretive to net interest income dollars it seems like the difference the 5 basis points of compression would be more than offset by almost what $30 billion of average earning asset growth in the quarter.
I'm just kind of -- I didn't see how the dollars came down as much as I had -- the dollars came down more than I would have anticipated given the growth in the balance sheet.
The second thing on a reconciliation when I look at the one line item on the income statement the net gains from trading activities now I know you went through some of those numbers but that was a loss of $442 million.
And if I back out I think the 3 items you mentioned the $234 million from deferred compensation investment income the $106 million and the net loss between the 2 legacy Wachovia positions and $108 million in the weak markets if I net those out that line would have been 0.
In the past 4 5 quarters it's been running about $500 million or so.
So what's the difference netting -- even netting out those 3 items what's the difference in that category this quarter versus what we've seen in the past 3 or 4 quarters? Are you talking about the debt or equity or just the debt that...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is net gains and losses from trading activities which was negative $442 million a quarter.
In the last 4 quarters it's been roughly about $500 million positive.
Yes so within that number would've been the outsized equity gains that we had in the second quarter.
And that's the primary driver in terms of the differential because remember the equity gains that we had in the second quarter of about $725 million and this quarter...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No that's in a different line item.
On your income statement your net gains on investment...
I thought you were talking about the trading asset not decline.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well this is just Page 19 of your release this morning.
There's 2 different line items.
There's net gains on trading activities.
There's also net gain on equity investments.
I think the net gain on the equity investments includes that onetime gain last quarter but if you're looking at net gains on trading activities and I back out those onetime items if you will that would've been 0 versus again about a $500 million run rate the past 4 quarters.
I don't think that includes the equity investment gains.
I thought you were talking about a different line item.
I'm sorry.
So if you look at the -- you're talking about the 854 right? That differential from the 415 to 441? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Right so you would have had the gross effect of one of the legacy Wachovia positions that we're of course reaching a resolution on.
So that was about 370 380 and you would have had the 234 in terms of the deferred comp.
And the rest of it was just a function of what was going on in the market and nothing specific.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's no one line item in there that wasn't more negative than the 3 items that you mentioned in your statements? No we would have called it out if that was the case.
Thank you very much.
We appreciate everybody's time and we will do this next quarter.
Thank you very much.
This does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that today's call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Rowe you may begin your conference.
Thank you Regina.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf; and our CFO Tim Sloan will review fourth quarter results and answer your questions.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that our fourth quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website.
I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.
Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can be found in our SEC filings in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website at wellsfargo.com.
I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning.
Happy new year and thanks for joining us today.
A year ago we were excited about all the opportunities we had ahead of us even in a challenging economic environment and I couldn't be more pleased with all that we accomplished in 2011.
We earned a record $15.9 billion up 28% from 2010.
We grew deposits by $72 billion up 9%.
We grew loans by $12 billion and grew our core loan portfolio by $33 billion.
We achieved record retail banking cross-sell of 5.9 products per household.
We improved credit quality with net charge-offs down 36% from a year ago.
We began our expense initiative and remained focus on our target of $11 billion in noninterest expense in the fourth quarter of this year 2012.
We grew ROA by 24 basis points and increased ROE by 160 basis points.
And we remain committed to helping homeowners stay in their homes with over 720 000 active or completed loan modifications initiated since the beginning of 2009.
We also increased capital levels while providing shareholders with a higher return on their investment by increasing our dividend and repurchasing 86 million shares of common stock.
We also redeemed $9.2 billion of high-cost trust preferred securities.
We accomplished all of this while completing the conversion of Wachovia's retail banking stores the largest conversion in banking history.
Our 6 239 retail banking stores are now on a single platform serving customers coast to coast.
In most mergers in financial services customer service typically declines but our team members remain committed to providing outstanding customer service as reflected in Wells Fargo once again ranking #1 in customer satisfaction among large banks based on a national survey.
2011 was a remarkable year but I'm even more excited about the opportunities that lie ahead as we enter 2012 as One Wells Fargo.
We have submitted our board-approved capital plan to the Fed and we are focused on returning even more capital to our shareholders.
We remain focused on better serving our existing customers and welcoming new customers as we grow market share both organically and through acquisitions.
And we remain committed to strengthening the overall economy by lending to our business customers to fund growth and create jobs by helping homeowners stay in their homes through participating in Home Preservation Workshops and loan modifications and by being active volunteers in the communities where we live and where we work.
The vision -- this vision has guided us for decades meeting our customers' financial needs will continue to drive our growth in the year ahead.
Let me now turn this over to Tim Sloan for more detail on our financial results.
Tim? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
My remarks will follow the presentation included in the first half of the quarterly supplement starting on Page 2.
John and I will then take your questions.
As John highlighted we achieved outstanding results in 2011 including a very strong fourth quarter.
We generated record earnings of $4.1 billion up 1% from the third quarter and up 20% from a year ago.
Earnings per share were a record $0.73 also up 1% from last quarter and 20% from a year ago.
This is the eighth consecutive quarter of EPS growth.
In fact by almost any measure our results in the fourth quarter moved in the right direction demonstrating the underlying strength of our diversified franchise.
We had linked quarter growth in revenue with growth in both net interest income and noninterest income.
We had higher pretax pre-provision profits loans deposits and securities available for sale.
We also had strong credit quality and our capital levels continue to grow.
On Page 3 we highlight our continued strong diversification which is a major differentiator for Wells Fargo and is a key driver of our ability to generate growth over time and through various economic cycles and interest rate environments.
Let me start with a few highlights of the drivers behind our balance sheet and income statement growth and I'll add more detail later in my remarks.
Starting with the balance sheet.
We generated strong loan growth this quarter with loans up $9.5 billion.
Our core loan portfolio which excludes the planned runoff from the liquidating portfolio was up $13.7 billion from the third quarter.
We once again purchased securities this quarter with balances up $15.4 billion from the third quarter as we continue to redeploy cash.
We also generated strong deposit growth with balances up $24.6 billion.
Now let's turn to the income statement.
Revenue grew by 5% from the third quarter driven by strong loan growth and deposit growth as well as fee growth throughout our diversified businesses.
Expenses increased as expected in the fourth quarter but we are still targeting $11 billion in noninterest expense in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Let me now cover our results in more detail.
As shown on Page 6 period-end loans were up $9.5 billion from the third quarter our third consecutive quarter of loan growth while we continue to reduce the size of our liquidating portfolio.
Excluding the runoff of $4.2 billion of liquidating loans our core loans grew by $13.7 billion including organic loan growth of $6 billion.
Commercial loans grew $5.6 billion driven by portfolio acquisitions new loans and new customer activity.
Loan growth in the fourth quarter included the purchase of $2.1 billion of U.S.-based commercial real estate loans.
We have purchased several portfolios over the past few quarters which reflect our ability to capitalize in the opportunities generated in this business environment and provide attractive returns for our shareholders.
While we have -- while we already have relationships with many of these customers these portfolio purchases also provide us with new customers that we hope to do more business with in the future.
Consumer loans also grew this quarter up $3.9 billion from the third quarter driven by the reconsolidation of $5.6 billion of reverse mortgage loans and was reduced by the runoff of $3.6 billion of liquidating consumer loans.
We had loan growth in our core auto portfolio.
Our credit card portfolio growth reflected strong account growth and seasonality.
We believe we're well positioned to grow loans organically and through acquisitions and we expect loan growth to continue.
We also continue to generate strong deposit growth with average deposits up $29.5 billion from the third quarter and up $74 billion or 9% from a year ago.
Average core checking and savings deposits grew $30.9 billion or 4% from the third quarter and were up 12% from a year ago.
Consumer checking accounts were up 3.2% from a year ago.
We achieved this growth while continuing to bring down our deposit cost which were 22 basis points in the fourth quarter down 3 basis points from the third quarter and down 9 basis points from a year ago.
We have grown deposits while reducing our deposit cost for 5 consecutive quarters.
Tax equivalent net interest income increased $369 million from the third quarter benefiting from a $24 billion increase in average earning assets and a 5 basis point increase in net interest margin.
Earning asset growth this quarter was broad based with increases in loans securities and mortgages held for sale.
We funded the growth in these assets by continuing to successfully attract low-cost deposits and by reducing cash and other short-term investments.
The balance sheet continue to reprice in this low-rate environment but we were able to offset that through pricing discipline including a 4 -basis point decline in interest-bearing deposit cost and reducing long-term debt by $10 billion in the fourth quarter.
Noninterest income increased $627 million from the third quarter or 7%.
This growth was driven by an increase in mortgage banking revenue of $531 million up 29% from the third quarter driven by higher margins and strong originations.
Originations increased $31 billion or 35% from the third quarter.
The unclosed mortgage pipeline remained very strong at $72 billion at quarter end.
Trading debt and equity gains were up $337 million from the third quarter.
Linked quarter growth in trading gains benefited from $275 million of higher deferred compensation plan investment results which is offset in expense and stronger core customer accommodation trading.
The linked quarter comparison also benefits because you recall that the third quarter included a loss from resolving one legacy Wachovia position.
Noninterest income also benefited from $153 million gain on the sale of H.D.
Vest in the fourth quarter.
Credit card fees were down $333 million from the third quarter reflecting the first quarter of lower debit interchange fees which reduced debit card fees by $365 million in the fourth quarter.
Card fees benefited this quarter from strong growth in consumer credit cards with new account growth up 6% from the third quarter and up 90% from the fourth quarter of 2010 driven by very strong growth in the east.
Noninterest expense increased 7% from the third quarter.
We highlighted on the call last quarter that we expected expenses to increase in the fourth quarter.
Let me walk you through the drivers of the increase on Slide 11.
Third quarter expenses included a $210 million benefit due to lower deferred compensation expenses and the fourth quarter had a net deferred compensation expense of $56 million.
These 2 amounts increased fourth quarter expenses by $266 million compared to the third quarter.
After adjusting for this amount the remaining increase in expenses were driven by 3 primary factors.
First mortgage and capital markets personnel expense increased approximately $300 million driven by higher revenue in the third -- in the quarter which is largely reflected in higher incentive compensation.
Secondly we have seasonally higher equipment cost and higher foreclosed asset expense.
Combined these increased expenses by approximately $200 million.
Finally we had approximately $100 million of higher cost associated with the mortgage servicing regulatory consent order.
We currently expect first quarter expenses to remain elevated driven by seasonally higher comp and benefit expenses and our final quarter Wachovia integration expenses but partially offset by continued gains from our expense initiatives.
In the second quarter of 2012 we expect expenses will decline by $500 million to $700 million from the first quarter driven by the elimination of merger expenses and lower comp and benefit expenses which as I just mentioned will be seasonally higher in the first quarter.
Our expenses in 2012 will reflect the benefit from our expense initiative and we continue to target noninterest expenses declining to $11 billion in the fourth quarter of 2012.
We expect to capture most of the savings through the consolidation of consumer lending businesses combining staff functions and technology groups moderation of cyclically high mortgage costs including loss remediation and simplifying customer interaction to improve service and efficiencies.
Turning briefly to our segment results starting on Page 13.
Community Banking earned $2.5 billion up 8% from the third quarter driven by stronger mortgage banking revenue.
Sales trends remain strong.
Core product sales in the West were $7.6 million up 9% from the prior year and core product sales in the East continue to grow by double digits.
Retail Banking cross-sell continue to grow to a record 5.92 products per household up from 5.7 a year ago.
And while cross-sell in the East continue to grow to 5.43 there is still plenty of opportunity to further increase cross-sell to the 6.29 products per household in the West.
Wholesale Banking earned $1.6 billion down $172 million from the third quarter reflecting lower loan loss reserve release.
Revenue increased 5% from the third quarter as many businesses including commercial real estate banking government banking and international generated strong loan and deposit growth and fixed income sales and trading and investment banking results benefited from improved market conditions.
Wholesale Banking continued to generate strong broad-based loan growth from both new and existing customers with average loans up $11.4 billion or 4% from the third quarter.
This growth reflects the purchase of $2.1 billion of U.S.-based commercial real estate loans as well as growth across from all portfolios including: commercial banking which has grown loan for 17 consecutive months; international; commercial real estate; capital finance; asset-backed finance; government banking; and corporate banking.
Average core deposits increased $14 billion from the third quarter up 7% and are up $38 billion or 21% from a year ago.
Wholesale Banking businesses continue to increase market share including our investment banking market share growing from 4.2% in 2010 to 5.1% in 2011.
Wealth Brokerage and Retirement earned $325 million up 12% from the third quarter.
This growth was driven by a 6% increase in revenue.
Revenue benefited from the $153 million gain on the sale of H.D.
Vest and $59 million of deferred compensation plan investment gains compared to $128 million loss in the third quarter.
Excluding these items revenue was down 5% on lower asset-based fees retail brokerage transaction revenue and securities gains.
Average core deposits increased $3.2 billion up 2% from the third quarter reflecting both the flight to quality and our continued success in attracting client assets including deposits.
Managed account assets were up 7% from the third quarter driven by strong net inflows.
Since managed account asset fees are priced on a quarterly lag first quarter revenue will benefit from the improved fourth quarter markets.
Our continued focus on meeting our customers' financial needs is reflected in achieving a record cross-sell of over 10 products per WBR household.
Our credit quality remains strong in the quarter as shown on Page 16.
Net charge-offs were stable from the third quarter and down 51% from the peak in the fourth quarter of 2009.
We remain pleased with how our loan portfolios are performing and we expect them to continue to improve in 2012.
Reflecting our continued improvement in credit quality we had a $600 million reserve release in the fourth quarter.
Absent a significant deterioration in the economy we continue to expect future reserve releases in 2012.
Nonperforming assets continue to decline down $879 million from the third quarter reflecting a $596 million decline in nonaccrual loans driven by a lower commercial real estate non-accruals and a $283 million decrease in foreclosed assets.
Loans 90 days or more past due were up modestly $119 million while early stage retail delinquency balances were stable with rates up modestly on lower loan balances.
On Page 18 we highlight what we believe our mortgage servicing portfolio is the best in the industry.
The majority of our $1.8 trillion residential servicing portfolio or 69% is serviced through the agencies.
Our private securitizations where we originated the loans are very -- are a very low portion of our total portfolio.
Reflecting the quality of our portfolio our delinquency and foreclosure rate was over 400 basis points lower than the industry average excluding Wells Fargo based on the most recent publicly available data.
Our total delinquency and foreclosure rate was 7.96% in the fourth quarter down from a peak of 8.96% in the fourth quarter of 2009 but up modestly from the third quarter due to seasonality.
Total repurchase demands were stable compared to the third quarter and went down approximately 31% from a year ago.
As shown on Page 20 our capital position continue to improve with our Tier 1 common equity ratio increasing to 9.46% and our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under current Basel III proposals growing to 7.49%.
We redeemed $5.8 billion of trust preferred securities in the fourth quarter with a weighted average coupon of 8.42%.
We purchased 26.6 million shares in the fourth quarter and an additional estimated 5.6 million shares through a full repurchase transaction that will settle in the first quarter of 2012.
As John mentioned at the beginning of the call we submitted our capital plan earlier this month and we expect to response no later than March 15.
We have a great story to tell reflecting the performance of our diversified model and the strength of our balance sheet.
We remain focused on returning more capital to our shareholders as we continue to grow our capital levels.
In summary our strong fourth quarter and full year 2011 results reflected the benefit of our diversified model which provides us with many opportunities for growth.
In the fourth quarter we grew earnings revenue loans deposits and capital with strong contributions throughout our consumer and commercial businesses.
As we begin the new year we're encouraged by the signs the U.S.
economy is doing better and we believe Wells Fargo is in a unique position to further benefit from the opportunities that drove a record performance in 2011.
I will now open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> If I could just focus on the net interest margin percent and net interest income dollars to start.
Last quarter the market was disappointed in the NIM percent specifically.
You guys probably had one of the worst NIMs last quarter.
It seems like this quarter you'll probably have one of the best ones.
And I appreciate there's a lot of moving pieces.
But as you look forward maybe you can give some insight on how you think the NIM percent and the net interest income dollars will trend from here and if we can expect similar volatility to what we've seen.
Matt you focused on the fact that it's difficult to look at the NIM on a quarterly basis and there can be some volatility quarter-to-quarter so I don't want to provide any specific guidance on the NIM.
But as we've said generally we think that the NIM is trending down a bit given that the -- that rates are lower.
However as you pointed out our net interest income was up and the reason that net interest income was up was because we were able to grow loans and continue to invest in high-quality securities.
Research Division</strong> And I guess as a follow-up on that as I think about the loans that are running off and the loans that you're purchasing they're starting to converge a little bit in terms of magnitude meaning just the runoff is less of a drag from -- or so far.
Now going forward there have obviously been some portfolios in the news since speculation of you bidding on some but what do you think the opportunity is for additional loan purchases from here? And maybe some comment on how those yields compared to what's running off.
Matt we are taking lots of tires.
We are in a unique position that we're not capital constrained.
We can do things that make good sense for us economically for our stockholders.
As you know and you know Wells Fargo well we are cautious.
It have to make a lot of sense for us.
And if all we get out of this is sore toes that's fine also but there -- because we don't have to do something.
But the deals we've done so far we like a lot.
It brings customers.
It brings earning assets.
And of course we're not going to do these things unless they're good economically for us.
So that's just one of the opportunities we have going forward and I suspect we'll see more things.
And again if we do some they'll be done at the right way.
If we don't do any that's also fine.
Research Division</strong> And how did the yields compare? You show us the runoff portfolio yields but how about the loans that you're purchasing and might be looking at.
How do those yields compared to what's running off? Well there -- these are attractive IRRs.
We wouldn't do them unless that'd be the case.
The next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> One follow-up on Matt's question on liquidity.
Tim maybe just a little bit of color of what led you to deploy liquidity this quarter and into what did you deploy that.
And do you still feel like you're sitting on excess liquidity? And what will drive the pace at which you further deploy the liquidity you have? Sure.
As you know the first call on our liquidity at any time is going to be for loans.
And we had good loan growth this quarter both organically and through acquisitions which we're excited about.
When you look at our investments in the securities portfolio there really weren't a whole lot different than what we looked at in the third quarter.
The timing was a little bit different because you recall in the third quarter there was a lot of volatility that occurred in a good portion of the third quarter.
So we invested more or less ratably across the quarter which is a good thing.
We really didn't change the complexion of the securities portfolio.
We continue to invest in high-quality assets across duration -- the duration of the portfolio didn't significant change.
As to your last question about capacity one of the great things about the company is that we're continuing to grow deposits.
And we feel like we've got -- have more than ample liquidity to continue to grow and service our existing customers maybe look at some acquisitions as John mentioned and continue to invest in the securities portfolio.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on expenses.
Can you talk a little bit more color about the drivers of the decline that you expect in the second quarter? Specifically first the merger integration expenses will stop in the second quarter will those stop for good? And then also in the personnel decline that you're talking about in the second quarter is that seasonal the mortgage banking or is this some of the consolidation of functions that you're doing? Can you give a little more color there? Sure.
So if you go back to Slide 11 I think that the first -- I'm sorry Slide 12.
The first part of the question relates to the integration and the integration expenses will be over in the first quarter.
So we won't be talking about them again after first quarter.
So that's number one.
Number two the incentive compensation and expenses and employee comp in the first quarter is more seasonal.
It's not necessarily cyclical.
It's not necessarily tied to any business.
It's just in the first quarter you tend to have more incentive comp and in terms of when you recognize it as well as the fact that you might recognize payroll taxes at a higher rate in the first quarter.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you're going to walk us down from second quarter down to the fourth quarter where you hope to get to $11 billion the drivers of that would be the other things on this table on Page 12? Correct.
And again to reiterate we feel good about being able to see the expenses decline from the first to the second quarter by $500 million to $700 million which takes us a long way to get to that $11 billion.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the last thing for me is on share repurchases.
The forward contract that you entered for the first quarter of $5.6 million is that the entirety of what you're approved for this quarter? Or you have approval to do additional open market purchases in the first quarter beyond that? Yes.
Matt I'm not going to comment on any specifics of the capital plan from last year as well as what we submitted for this year.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
You just said that you hope to do more in 2012.
I guess you said that already Tim.
That's correct.
Yes more is more as I said before.
And our shareholders have been very patient and we'll have to just wait until the 15th of March.
The next question comes from the line of Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us a sense of what you think on the -- in terms of mitigating some of the Durbin headwind on what you could accomplish with regards to implementing deposit fees in 2012? Well Erika we have talked a lot about the fact that in most cases our customers pay for all the convenience we offer them through more products and services with us and that's always been the case around here.
And in fact if you look at the hit we took in the fourth quarter now that the debit interchange number is all through that it was actually a little less than the $2.50 after tax that we have talked about because we're doing more business.
And we actually have more accounts now.
So -- but we're always looking at ways to tighten our belt offer more value look at ways that customers how they want to pay us for the services we provide and that's an ongoing process.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I hear the message loud and clear in terms of not answering any questions about what was submitted to the regulators with regard to your capital plan.
But I have a timing question.
I'm wondering if there are opportunities that are more sizable for M&amp;A that could be coming out of Europe or even in the U.S.
Does the fact that you're not going to get an answer from the Fed until March 15 deter you from doing anything between now and then? There was some background noise during the question so people put their phones on mute.
That would be great while they're not speaking.
But anyway we have -- as I mentioned we continue to kick tires.
We're looking at things and we'll do that.
We're doing that continuously.
But again we're cautious.
We don't had to do anything.
If we do something it will be a bolt-on business or it'd be an add to something we're doing right now either in terms of capability or capacity or new customers.
And that'll continue even during this process.
Research Division</strong> But just to follow-up and clarify.
The fact that the capital plan is outstanding for approval doesn't impact your ability to make an announcement before March 15 in terms of any M&amp;A.
No it doesn't.
No it does not.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Real quick on the -- it looks like you grew your residential loans by $6 billion looking at the average balance sheet.
If I'm incorrect can you tell me what did you grow it by? And if you did was that a change of policy? It's the first time we've seen some material growth in that residential portfolios.
Well Paul we did reconsolidate $5.6 billion of reverse mortgages that we have previously sold based upon some clarifying guidance that SEC provided to the entire industry.
So that was the primary driver for the growth in the residential loan line this quarter.
The economics stay the same Paul but that -- it's more of an accounting.
We earn a servicing fee that loans continue to be insured by the FHA so it was more of accounting transaction than anything.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And real quick on the HAMP program that was announced over the quarter do you think that's going to be material? Are you guys at all or do you think there's still too many roadblocks for that program to have any impact at all in the mortgage market? Not the HAMP part the HARP.
Yes.
You're talking about the HARP 2? Research Division</strong> Yes HARP 2.
Yes there's going to be some customers and we're ramping up.
We're going to be helping them and it's hard to say today how many and so forth.
But we're eager to help customers who have 7% and 8% coupons refinanced down to 4% notwithstanding their loan-to-value issue which has been the issue.
But again it's hard for me to predict how big that will be.
Incidentally with HARP 1 we've been doing a lot of those.
This is -- kind of takes it above the 1.25 or whatever the number is.
So we'll catch up to you in there but I don't -- this is not going to be a refinance boom equal to 2003 for example.
I mean a lot of -- there's been a lot of refinancing going on.
But there are some customers there and we're eager to help them.
Yes.
Paul I think the administration set an expectation of about 1 million mortgages as part of this program and that seems about right to us.
Research Division</strong> And then we've seen a lot of turmoil come out of Fannie and Freddie recently a lot of a political fallout from their high salary.
We just saw Williams just stepped down.
Are you seeing -- I mean is -- do you -- how -- do you think it is a negative for Fannie and Freddie going forward or you don't think it's really -- it's business as usual out there? Well I don't know that I focus on that.
I mean we're focused on helping customers.
And whatever happens with Fannie and Freddie I mean we're getting support and approvals that we need.
Of course you know there's been a small increase in the GPs.
That probably affects things more than what's happening at Fannie and Freddie's management levels.
Our next question comes from the line of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Yes just 2 quick questions.
Tim I appreciate no sort of forecast for the net interest margin but do you mind going over some of the big pieces that you see in terms of your ongoing ability to reduce funding cost like more TRUPs redemptions long-term debt lower deposit cost? Could you just sort of remind us how you sort of think about the opportunity remain? Well let's -- sure.
Let's start in reverse order.
I think first on lower deposit costs.
I mean the team has done a terrific job over the last couple years of reducing deposit costs.
And given where rates are today we think that there's still more room to reduce deposit cost.
Specifically what that -- the number is I don't know on a quarterly basis.
But if you've seen the last couple of quarters it's been pretty consistent.
And so we're optimistic that we'll continue to make progress even as we grow deposits which is pretty important.
I think if we were reducing deposit across and not growing deposits that would probably not be a good thing.
In terms of the TRUPs we had a -- or we called about 7 -- or we have about $7.5 billion that are still outstanding and $2.7 billion have a call date in 2012 right.
Beyond that I don't want to provide any specific guidance about the TRUPs.
That's part of our capital plan submission so we'll leave it at that.
In terms of long-term debt we think that we've done a nice job of reducing overall debt.
I think over time in our overall debt over the last 3 years I think it's down 53% which is really good results.
But I think over time you'll probably see us be a little bit more active in the market as opposed to continuing to decrease long-term debt.
But I do think given where rates and spreads are that we can reduce our overall debt cost even if we do have to raise some debt in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then is there a portion of noninterest-bearing deposits that we should think about maybe going away in 2012 because of escrow deposits related to the very strong mortgage origination quarter? Well escrow deposits were up I think slightly.
Actually I can't recall the specific number off the top of my head...
Around $35 billion.
But they were up a bit.
And that's really reflective of what's going on in the mortgage market.
Certainly if the mortgage market continues to be a strong as it is right now they'll be the same as the mortgage market comes down a bit.
Escrows will be down.
But those are the only deposits I will look at as being concerned about non-interest-bearing deposits being concerned about moving away based upon what's going on in the economy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally sort of mixed trends on the linked quarter credit quality improvement.
We saw delinquencies tick up a bit.
Could you put a little more color around your thoughts? You mentioned that you thought you expected more reserve release in 2012.
I don't really expect you to quantify that but maybe that thought in conjunction with sort of the trends we saw in credit metrics this quarter.
Yes.
That's a fair question.
Overall we were very pleased with credit.
We continue to have very strong credit.
Where we are right now is consistent with the expectations that we've been talking about for the last couple of quarters and consistent with what we're seeing at this part of the credit cycle.
NPAs were down almost $900 million on a link quarter basis.
That was very nice progress.
Charge-offs were stable.
Retail delinquencies 30-plus delinquencies were normally up and in the fourth quarter due to seasonality and they were stable this quarter so we're pleased about that.
It's an item that we've all forgotten about but our PCI loans continue to perform better than what our expectations.
Now almost $4 billion better than our original projections and that we still have 27.5% coverage in terms of the non-accretable on the PCI.
So we continue to feel good on credit.
Our expectation is that credit will continue to improve throughout this year.
It's not going to improve at the same -- we don't think it will improve at the same rate as what we saw over the last couple of years but we'll continue to see improvement.
And again as you mentioned and I'll reiterate it I think the fact of the matter is that our loan loss reserve release are likely to continue this year.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Hagerman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the last question.
Just how should we -- Tim with your outlook on credit and again just you look at the kind of the stabilizing trends that we've seen in the last couple of quarters if I think about the loan loss release and your expectations how is the housing market kind of factored into the equation and the consumer in particular as you guys look out the next 12 to 18 months? Well the housing market clearly is factored into how we think about our loan loss reserve.
And to the extent that the housing market gets better that's a good thing; if it gets worse it's a bad thing.
But the primary driver in terms of consumer delinquencies and losses is jobs.
That's the primary focus from our perspective in terms of the portfolio.
But again at this point in the cycle where we've had a lot of improvement and the economy is growing but growing very slowly it's not a surprise that we've seen a couple of quarters of reduced improvement.
But remember even in this quarter our consumer losses were down which we're pretty pleased with.
Yes and think of it this way.
Since 2008 underwriting in some of these portfolios have changed.
So all of a sudden you have 8 and 9 and 10 and 11 that becomes a more substantial part of your portfolio.
And if you look at our delinquencies on residential real estate and you look at how well we're doing in commercial I couldn't be happy with our progress on credit.
Research Division</strong> I guess what I'm getting at is just in terms of the embedded reserve and granted your coverage ratios are very strong.
But I guess what I'm driving at is kind of the embedded or assumptions in terms of home price decline unemployment that sort of thing in terms of as you factor into your outlook on credit.
Well that's all factored in there.
I mean we look at that.
We consider that.
We obviously have a -- we stressed these portfolios and we look at indicators.
And as Tim mentioned on the consumer side where you typically see a seasonal run-up in consumer delinquency we didn't.
So that bodes well for the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could just real quickly switching gears just on the mortgage side.
The reps and warranties cost ticked up a little bit in the quarter.
Can you just talk about kind of just again the trends that you're seeing? Is that something that should be is it going to be fairly lumpy? Is it something specific more with Fannie versus Freddie in the quarter in terms of the earlier stage delinquency buckets if you would? Just kind of trying to get a gauge on what your expectations what happened in the quarter? Actually the fourth quarter results in terms of the mortgage repurchase reserve were pretty stable.
Total demands outstanding both in terms of the number and the balance were stable in the fourth quarter and recall they're down over 30% from the prior year.
The new demands that we saw for the '06 to '08 vintages are still up as John said that was the vintages that are most problematic.
But again for us relative to the rest of the industry it's less than an issue.
But they were up for Fannie that's been consistent now for about 3 quarters.
Freddie was still within our expectations.
But again it's important to note that our realized losses were $272 million which were down in the fourth quarter from $384 million in the third quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Foran with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> On the FHA insured loans that are 90 days more past due and still accruing I recognize the risk really is on your balance sheet but can you just talk about the trends? They seem to be bouncing around between $14 billion and $15 billion up until the middle of this year and then there's been a pretty significant ramp over the past 6 months.
Is that timing or is that deterioration of FHA loans overall? And as a follow-up is there any signs that there could be risk to the banking industry of the FHA potentially putting some of these losses to the banks? Well let me jump on the first part of your question and I'll let John answer the last.
I think that what you're seeing is the fact that we're a very large mortgage lender in this country and that our volumes are up and our market share is up.
So it's understandable that because our FHA/VA origination volume has increased since the end of 2008 that there's going to be a natural increase in delinquency.
If you look at the performance of these mortgages relative to what we've seen in history they're not performing any they're actually performing better than what we've seen historically it's just that we're a bigger lender.
And as you point out these continue to be guaranteed by FHA/VA.
John I don't know if you have any comments about FHA and VA.
Yes.
We've not seen any change in how they handle their guarantees and their situations.
So I have nothing to report on that.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough and a separate question.
I guess ambitions in capital markets and retail brokerage and specifically a lot of things are coming to market as other banks are forced to deleverage and as some of the wholesale business models come under pressure.
How do you think about the trade-off between organic growth in those areas versus any pockets where acquisitions might make more sense? As I mentioned in either my formal comments or just made a few minutes ago we're taking tiers.
We're taking lots of tiers and our use of capital on the acquisition side will be for businesses that are bolt on to existing areas of expertise that we have and you've seen that recently where we did a couple things with Irish assets here in the U.S.
It will be places where we can either add skill or scale for customers.
And it will and think of things starting with customers.
That's kind of who we are.
So and if we do like I mentioned if we do some things it will be done right the right price it will be compelling for our stockholders.
If we can't find those things we won't do them.
So it's really that simple.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Mutascio with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tim I had a quick question just follow up on the securities portfolio.
I mean I know you said that you bought throughout the quarter but there's still a pretty big difference between the end of period balances and the average balances for the available for sale.
Should I suspect to see the average balances on the available for sale to catch up to the end of period balances in the first quarter? It's about a $20 billion difference between the 2 right now.
Chris that may be the case.
Again it take some time.
When you look at the quarterly numbers you can get a little bit of distortion.
But yes I think that it's more likely that they'll catch up than not.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And similar to that on the trading side your trading assets on an end of period basis were roughly what $77 billion or so and even running in more in the mid-50s.
Is that $77 billion a decent run rate going forward in 2012 or that line item? Yes I don't think so.
I think -- it's a good question though.
The primary driver for the increase was that we had some conforming mortgage production agency conforming mortgage production that we decided to hold over through the end of the year because we thought we could get a better execution in the first part of 2012.
Because the production had already been securitized just by accounting definitions it had to be classified as a trading asset.
We've now -- and it was about $20 billion as you point out.
About $19 billion of that $20 billion is already settled and we'll settle the remaining one sometime this week.
So I would not look at that increase in the $77 billion as the run rate in the future.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So there's no economic gain in the first quarter with the $19 billion removal from trading assets? There was just a modest positive impact in the fourth quarter.
There will be a gain in the first quarter but it's not significant to the company.
We just thought we could get a better execution.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> First question on loan utilization and commercial and industrial loans.
Has that picked up or is this really acquisitions and market share gains? It's acquisitions and market share gain.
We've seen nothing really -- just very very modest.
It didn't account for much.
Research Division</strong> So this commercial loan growth that we're seeing in the industry why are we seeing it if there's not that natural demand? Well first of all there's fewer players that are sharing it.
And we have more people on the street and an offering that includes not only loans but other things that help customers succeed so.
And we're not capital constrained.
At least we have that escape for us.
Research Division</strong> And you didn't mention Europe to the extent that there's opportunities there? You mean to buy in Europe or to buy...
Research Division</strong> Market share gains.
Well we're -- 98% of our revenues come from the United States 98% of our people are here.
We're really focused on -- there's so much growth and so much opportunity here.
I mean I wouldn't rule out -- I never say never in anything.
But I can tell you we are really focused on serving our domestic customers now that we have Wachovia integrated.
And surely we help individuals and companies as they do business overseas and vice versa.
But our focus is really our primary focus I should put it that way is domestic.
Research Division</strong> So how does the European crisis impact you if at all? Is it a nonevent or you -- how could impact you? Well it impacts us as foreign banks especially European banks are trying to solve for their capital requirements.
And they are as you've seen offering assets and businesses for sale.
And we have -- we have been successful in some of those.
And our direct exposure to the 5 most challenged countries the sovereign exposure is next to nil and our overall exposure is also very small.
So we don't have a lot of direct exposure to the troubled countries of Europe.
But surely if Europe's challenges worsen and I'm not going to expect that but if they do worsen that would have an impact on the overall U.S.
economy or could have an impact and then we could get impacted but our exposure is quite indirect if you will.
Research Division</strong> Then last question on your expense plan.
When you talk about it you talk about getting rid of your merger expenses and a lower comp and benefits and it doesn't sound so structural.
It sounds kind of cyclical.
Just the way you talk about it I know you said there's some technology in consumer lending.
Can you just explain in more general terms why do you have these extra expense savings I guess you're looking to go from what $12.5 billion down to $11 billion by the fourth quarter of this year.
Is this all just a cycle or is there something more fundamental happening? Well I think there's something more fundamental that's happening.
The progress that we're making is being masked by some of the items that we've been very specific to call out.
But as we mentioned on Slide 12 we've reorganized and consolidated our consumer lending businesses.
There will be a lot of savings related to that.
We're combining many of our staff functions and technology groups and we can do that now that we're almost done with the merger.
We do believe that there's some cyclically high mortgage costs that are going to roll off.
So it's a combination of a lot of different things but it is a result of a lot of hard work and effort on the part of the team.
Research Division</strong> Should we characterize this as a second look at expenses now that the merger integration is complete? Just as a second look at the old Wachovia First Union merger? Is there -- how would you describe it? Well I would describe it as being more reflective of what's going on from an economic standpoint from a regulatory standpoint.
We made a lot of really thoughtful decisions about how we were going to be organized in a different environment in the first quarter of 2009.
And we've made a lot of success.
We've had a lot of success in integrating the platform.
As you recall about a year ago we've stepped back and said "Well how do we want the company to look going forward?" And we're making some changes reflective of what's going on in the environment right now.
I think it's really important that we continue to improve.
This isn't just about reducing expenses this year and hoping for the best.
It's about a focus on providing more value to our customers.
That's the primary driver of our expense initiatives how can we drive more value to our customers and be more efficient.
The next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you a couple of questions.
One is on the efficiency ratio taking your $11 billion which is very clear and I like the way you're putting that out there.
But the business will move up and down hopefully revenues as we saw this quarter starting to see some improvement.
So if you look at the efficiency ratio coming into the year we were kind of in the mid-60s sort of 63% to 64%.
As we got through the third quarter it improved to 60%.
In the fourth quarter it ticked up about 1%.
If I take the $11 billion and just kind of put it on the income statement it actually brings our efficiency ratio down below 55%.
Is that kind of the goal we're looking at? I was just trying to equate it so we can move from just the $11 billion into somewhat of an efficiency target as well.
Yes.
Marty it's a fair question.
But candidly we have not set a specific efficiency goal.
We set a run rate.
So the efficiency is going to be whatever it's going to be based upon where our revenues are going to be in the fourth quarter.
But clearly we think that a 60% rate is too high.
LLC Research Division</strong> And so the seasonality of the revenues this quarter given the mortgage always has a strong fourth quarter hasn't really over -- I did say I want to make sure we weren't overemphasizing that number to get down to 53% something like that would be doable given the assumptions we have.
Yes.
Marty I don't know if 53% or 54% is doable.
I think historically if you look at the company we've been down in that range.
The company's changed a little bit.
But again we haven't set a specific efficiency goal target.
We're focused on that $11 billion.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I have one other question that I wanted to kind of see if you can walk through in the sense of the mortgage putbacks.
It's really kind of a 3-layered question.
I hate to throw this at you.
But one is are the primary reasons for the deficiencies can you kind of highlight why we're dealing with agencies which was a very regulated process we're still seeing that they can throw back at us these deficient loans or the delinquent loans because of paperwork and deficiency in the process.
Have those issues changed at all so did you see a year ago different issues than we're seeing today or are they about the same? And then lastly what would be your guess in the sense of what percent of the originations we did? To me this is the critical assumption.
I would have the deficiencies that are out there.
So if we take a sample of a 1 000 loans where we see that the deficiencies have been getting back to us with a 30% or the 40% of the loans.
What's kind of the range that you think the loans that we're originating would have in the sense of deficiencies? So a lot of questions there Marty which I appreciate.
That's okay it's okay.
I think that when you think about the kind of the context of the repurchase demands that we're seeing there isn't anything really new.
I think that what we've seen is a steady review by Freddie Mac and then Fannie Mae during this year accelerated its view.
But the issues are really not that different.
And from our perspective as we look at our portfolio it has much more to do with vintage than anything.
And we're slowly but surely kind of working our way through the vintages.
The repurchases was pretty flat.
Our losses were down for the quarter.
In terms of the answer to your bigger question what I'd like to do on that one Marty is just punt and have our IR folks get with our mortgage folks and get back to you because they're going to provide you with a better answer than I'm going to.
I just think that percentage if we could look at some sample size would give us some subset that we're dealing with that kind of puts an upper bound which in my mind we have to be approaching after the agencies have gone through 2 and 3 years of looking at this stuff.
Unless they're coming up with new stuff eventually they're going to run out.
And it seems like we're at some point you're going to approach that number.
I look forward to getting to that point too.
Marty the biggest thing in 2006 to '08 was stated income.
I mean that was -- and of course that's all changed since 2008 so.
But we'll get back to you on that.
Our next question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to kind of ask about the mortgage bank.
You had obviously great revenue numbers this quarter particularly on the production side and great production numbers for this quarter.
Usually that tends to follow through it to good revenues in Q4.
Can you talk a little bit about the margin on production and anything else that might be impacting the mortgage bank as we look at first quarter? Yes.
I think that the margin was up from the third quarter.
It was up to 190 basis points from about 134 in the third quarter.
And that's something that you see typically in periods of increased demand.
And as we've mentioned we've taken share so that's good.
I don't know where the margin is going to be in the first quarter.
Clearly 190 is very attractive.
We hope that it continues to be in that range.
It might.
It might not.
Just as a comment about the Mortgage business we like the Mortgage business.
We like that business.
And we have a -- we've been taking share in that business.
For 2/3 of Americans it's the most significant financial asset they'll have.
If you're going to be in the consumer business we believe you have to be good at the mortgage business and it's a balanced business.
So again I can't predict where volumes and originations are going to go.
But we believe this is a strong business for our company and we like it.
Your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on the investment bank.
The market share gains that you're seeing in the investment bank can you just -- I mean is that due to any one particular activity or segment? If you could just give us a little color about that.
No it's not Nancy.
I think it's just reflective of the fact that it's a different competitive environment number one.
Number two we have many more relationships than we had a few years ago.
And we've got a great team and so they're out providing advice and service to those relationships but it was really pretty broad based.
It's not for one specific product or trading activity or industry.
It's really reflective of the fact that when we think this is a good business for us and we think we can continue to grow it but we're going to grow it in our way that's very focused on risk and very focused on providing the right product and service to the client.
It's mostly about us doing more with existing customers.
We've already had a relationship.
We already lent them money.
We already did something with them.
And now because we have 15 000 brokers that are able to help sell a debt issuance or an equity offering.
As Tim mentioned we have great folks who play team ball.
LLC Research Division</strong> My add-on my second question will be just an add-on to that.
I mean you guys clearly have benefited in quarters like this quarter from not being identified as a capital market/investment banking company.
And I guess my question would be how big a market share do you actually ever want to have or how big do you want the investment bank to be in relation to the rest of the company to continue that premium I think you're getting for not being identified as an investment bank? So Nancy here's how I think about that.
I think first of all we love the capability of our people and -- but we think of investment banking or capital markets as another product another arrow we have in our quivers.
We sit down with medium-sized companies and large companies.
This is a product and a service that we have that we believe can help them succeed financially.
If they choose us for that that's terrific.
If they choose us to do their stock transfer business or treasury management instead of that that's also terrific.
I'm not driven by league tables around here.
I'm driven by conference room tables.
I want to see us sitting around a table helping customers.
So if we grow because we're helping customers terrific.
If we don't grow because their business isn't there but we're getting paid a different way that's also terrific.
And that's where I think we are fundamentally different.
We don't have a standalone Head of Corporate Finance that reports to me that has a league table goal.
I could care less about that.
It's a product that reports into our overall commercial business.
They're very good people they do terrific work.
I can't tell you how excited I am about the kind of -- the way they play team ball and work around here.
LLC Research Division</strong> John I'd like to get your perspective on one other thing as well.
Jamie Dimon said a few days ago that given the stringency of this stress test the CCAR the 13% unemployment et cetera et cetera.
He expected after you get the results of that and he implied that he does not think there will be capital raising needed on the part of major American banks as a result.
Do you hope that that would be the definitive word on capital? Do you expect that -- do you have that same expectation? Well I don't know other banks as well as he knows other banks.
So I know this company.
And we surely believe we're in a good spot.
But I would make a general comment.
What we've been through the last 3 years in the U.S.
there's been a lot of capital grown organically and just through earnings and a lot of capital was raised.
The industry is far stronger than it's been in the past.
And it takes strong banks and a strong financial system to support a growing economy.
This country is in a much better position than a lot of our European counterparts because of the strength of the banks.
So I don't know what the stress test is going to show for each institution.
I don't have a vision of that.
But I know in our case I don't worry a lot about our capital to support growth in this for us.
Our next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of questions.
One is on the excess liquidity that you have.
Can you just give us what number you calculate that to be? We don't really calculate an excess liquidity number at the company Betsy.
I think that it ebbs and flows based upon deposit growth and the opportunities we see in terms of loan growth and acquisitions and investing the securities portfolio.
So I mean I wish I could give you a specific answer but that's not the way we think about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess the reason I asked that question is I'm thinking about your firepower for investing in loans going forward.
Do you feel like that rate of change is decelerating or accelerating? Well I think it's about the same.
As we talked about we got a tremendous amount of deposit growth in the third quarter.
We got a lot of deposit growth in the fourth quarter when you think about it we're up $30 billion in one quarter and then turn the clock back and how that would feel 2 or 3 years ago.
But we've got more than enough dry powder to take advantage of the organic growth that we're seeing from our customers which is strong as well as look at any acquisitions.
But as John said we're going to look at a lot of acquisitions.
We may make none of them we may make a lot but we feel good about where we are from a liquidity standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Can you just give us a sense of what your hurdle rates are for the kind of loans you're seeing? You mentioned earlier on the call that you've been seeing a lot of opportunities you're being selective.
Can you just give us a sense as to whether or not your hurdle rates have changed or what they are for the C&amp;I loan book for example? So I'd rather not be specific about what our hurdle rates because if we're in a competitive situation then our competitors might know what we're trying to solve for.
But I can tell you as we look at the portfolios that we purchased today those portfolios have been higher-quality portfolios and the yields have been consistent with our existing commercial real estate portfolio.
We really don't -- we don't have a specific hurdle rate that we would necessarily apply to every portfolio or every business because the risk in those businesses and portfolios can be different.
You got to do it kind of deal by deal opportunity by opportunity just like when you underwrite a new loan that you look at the risk to that existing customer.
And also Betsy we bring other things.
We bring when we do sit down with a potential seller we also want to get paid for the trust these folks have in us that we'll complete the deal and that we have the capacity to complete the deal.
We don't re-trade it.
So these are all these all add into the mix.
And in some cases we're not even the highest bidder when we get deals.
Research Division</strong> Sure okay.
And then lastly on C&amp;I the average is up nicely around 4% to 4.5% 4.6%.
Q-on-Q the end of period was up a little bit less just under 2%.
So I guess -- and that's in an environment based on the HA data that were showing accelerating C&amp;I EOP into the end of the quarter.
So did you see competition kind of heating up and you're backing off? Or opportunity just wasn't just as great? Can you just explain why the EOPs are different? Yes.
I think the important thing is to appreciate that you shouldn't get too focused on what happens quarter-to-quarter because you can have a lot of the activity that happens over the quarter.
I would not be concerned about our ability to grow commercial loans at all.
Research Division</strong> Was there originally a pullback a little bit relative to what we saw from the HA? Was it a function of the competition that you see? No no no.
We didn't necessarily pull back.
A lot of it can just be timing.
I mean we have a bunch of loans that and transactions you're working on that could you think might close toward the end of the year and they don't.
They close in the first part of the next year or the  next quarter.
And there's also some seasonality here also.
Research Division</strong> So your average growth rates are better for forecast than you think than EOP? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Fred Cannon with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but I just want to follow-up on the last one about loan growth.
If I look at your end of period loans and exclude the $5.6 billion in reclassifications and then the $3.6 billion in purchased average bank loans I have the quarter-on-quarter loan balances essentially flat which suggests that your organic growth is essentially offsetting your portfolio your run-off portfolio decline.
Is that a fair way to think about where you are right now? Or is that understating what's going on? No.
I think it understates what's going on.
I think the important thing from our perspective Fred is that we've got the ability to grow loans in various loan types as well as make acquisitions.
And depending upon the timing in the quarter or any given quarter some might be growing faster than others.
And I really think you've got to think about it as a total of all of them.
And I wouldn't look at loan growth that we had from acquisition as being a bad thing.
That's just part of the opportunities that we have to grow.
And only a couple of billion of it showed up in the fourth quarter so you can't look at all of the purchase.
Some of that was on the third quarter.
So there was actual growth in the fourth quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Just one more Tim.
Just looking at the yield on the security you probably already covered this.
The yield on the security portfolio has come down fairly significantly over the last year and even in the quarter-on-quarter.
Is that just inherent in the flat yield curve environment? And just in terms of the opportunities to invest in securities inherently lower yielding is just what you face right now? Yes yes.
I think that's right.
I mean I think that the rate of decline is slowing just a little bit but that's a very fair characterization which again is why we're focusing on net interest income as opposed to just the yield.
Your final question will come from the line of Joe Morford with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just one last follow-up on the drivers to the growth on the C&amp;I side.
Do you have any color on kind of the relative strength of the different segments be it kind of large corporate or syndicated middle markets small business and just as is there any one area where you're seeing better opportunities to take share? Well it's more on the type of business as opposed to the size.
If you look at anybody or any company involved in the commodities they're doing quite well and because commodity prices are up there's lending opportunities there.
Agriculture is pretty good energy is pretty good.
So if you -- and manufacturing actually is doing quite well.
On the other side if it's around residential real estate not so good.
So it depends more on that than on size.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any comments just broadly on how  pricing's holding in? Pricing continues to be to hold in pretty well during the quarter.
And think of our pricing.
We price at the relationship level.
So it's not only the price on the loan it's the price on the treasury business the 401(k) business the stock transfer business and a whole bunch of other things.
So we think it's  probably differently than a lot of other companies.
And thank you all for joining us.
Again we were proud of what our team did in the fourth quarter of 2011 and we're excited about 2012.
Talk to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like turn the call over to Jim Rowe Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Rowe you may begin your conference.
Thank you Regina and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf; and our CFO Tim Sloan will review first quarter results and answer your questions.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that our first quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website.
I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.
Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can also be found in our SEC filings in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website at wellsfargo.com.
I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf.
Thank you Jim and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Our outstanding results for the first quarter demonstrate the strength of our franchise and the benefit of our diversified business model.
Our ability to meet our customers' financial needs throughout our geographic footprint and broadly diversified businesses is clearly reflected in our results.
Let me quickly review some of the highlights of the first quarter.
We grew revenue to $21.6 billion up 6% from a year ago.
We generated net income after tax up 13% and EPS up 12% from a year ago.
Pretax preprovisioned profits increased 14% from a year ago.
We had positive operating leverage and our efficiency -- expense efficiency ratio improved by 250 basis points from a year ago.
We grew our retail banking cross-sell ratio to a record 5.98 products per household.
Credit quality continued to improve with our charge-off ratio declining to 1.25% the lowest level since 2007.
Our profitability ratios reflect these strong results with our return on assets growing to 1.31% up 8 basis points from a year ago the highest it's been in 4 years.
Our return on equity increased to 12.14% up 16 basis points from just a year ago.
We continued to grow capital with our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under Basel III increasing to 7.81%.
We are extremely pleased that during the first quarter we were able to reward our shareholders by increasing our dividend for the second consecutive year with an 83% increase to $0.22 per share per quarter.
Wells Fargo's performance has benefited from our diversified business model and the improvements in the economy.
We remain focused on our commitment to do all we can to help customers and the overall economy.
We are helping homeowners stay in their homes with over 740 000 active trial or completed mortgage modifications since the beginning of 2009.
We've also helped nearly 5.6 million customers secure new low-rate loans for home purchases or refinancing since the beginning of 2009.
In the first quarter we successfully completed integrating the largest and most complex bank merger in our nation's history.
It took us 3 years but we did it the right way on time and under budget.
We believe our strong results this quarter are just the beginning of our ability to capitalize on all of the tremendous growth opportunities ahead of us as we move forward as One Wells Fargo serving our 70 million customers coast-to-coast.
Now Tim our CFO will provide more details on our financial results.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
My remarks will follow the presentation included in the first half of the quarterly supplement starting on Page 2 and then John and I will take your questions.
As John highlighted we achieved very strong first quarter results with record earnings of $4.2 billion up 3% from the fourth quarter and up 13% from a year ago.
Earnings per share were a record $0.75 up 3% from last quarter and 12% from a year ago.
This is our ninth consecutive quarter of EPS growth.
That's real consistency.
Our ability to grow our bottom line consistently during a time when the industry has faced many challenges reflects the underlying strength and the benefit of our diversified business model.
This quarter was no different.
As Slide 3 shows we have a diversified loan portfolio balanced spread and fee income and our sources of noninterest income are well diversified.
Let me start by highlighting some of the key drivers of our results this quarter and I'll add more detail later in my remarks.
While total loans declined this quarter our core loan portfolio which excludes the planned runoff from the liquidating portfolio was up $1 billion from the fourth quarter.
Our securities portfolio grew $7.7 billion as we continued to deploy cash into longer-term investments and benefit from continued strong deposit growth with deposit balances up $10.2 billion.
Now let's turn to the income statement.
Revenue grew by $1 billion or 5% from the fourth quarter on strong mortgage results and fee growth throughout our diversified businesses while net interest income was stable.
As expected our expenses remained elevated in this quarter but we generated positive operating leverage.
We expect second quarter expenses to decline by $500 million to $700 million and that our quarterly expenses will continue to decline over the remainder of the year.
Now let me cover our results in more detail.
As shown on Page 6 period-end loans were down $3.1 billion from the fourth quarter as we continue to reduce the size of our liquidating portfolio.
Excluding the runoff of $4.1 billion of liquidating loans our core loan portfolio grew by $1 billion.
Commercial loans grew $299 million as growth in C&amp;I was partially offset by lower commercial real estate and foreign loans.
Loan growth benefited from $858 million of loans acquired from Burdale Capital Finance during the quarter.
As we head into the second quarter we have a nice tailwind for increasing loans with the announced acquisition of BNP Paribas' North American energy lending business which includes approximately $3.9 billion of loans outstanding and is expected to close later this month.
Consumer loans declined $3.4 billion from the fourth quarter as growth in our auto and our private student lending portfolios was offset by lower junior lien mortgages and seasonally lower credit card balances.
Average loan balances were flat linked quarter but we had growth in many portfolios.
We believe we're well positioned to grow loans during the rest of the year.
We had strong deposit growth with average core deposits up $5.6 billion from the fourth quarter and up $73.7 billion or 9% from a year ago.
Core deposits were 113% of average loans.
Average core checking and savings deposits were up 12% from a year ago and were 93% of core deposits.
Consumer checking accounts were up a net 2.5% from a year ago.
We have successfully grown deposits while reducing our deposit costs for 6 consecutive quarters.
Deposit costs in the first quarter were 20 basis points down 2 basis points from the fourth quarter and down 10 basis points from a year ago.
Tax equivalent net interest income was stable from the fourth quarter with average earning assets essentially unchanged and the NIM was up 2 basis points.
That said; we expect continued pressure on our NIM as a result of the current interest rate environment.
The benefit of disciplined deposit pricing with interest-bearing deposit costs down 3 basis points in the quarter and the redeployment of short-term investments into longer-term securities largely offset the expected runoff of higher-yielding loans and investments during the quarter.
Noninterest income increased $1 billion from the fourth quarter up 11%.
This growth was broad-based and reflected very strong mortgage results.
Mortgage banking revenue increased $506 million up 21% from the fourth quarter driven by strong originations and higher margins.
Mortgage originations were $129 billion in the first quarter up 8% from the fourth quarter.
Only 15% of our origination volume this quarter was from HARP.
The unclosed mortgage pipeline was solid at $79 billion at quarter end.
Mortgage results included a $343 million reduction in the value of MSRs to incorporate a higher discount rate.
Market-sensitive revenues were up $458 million from the fourth quarter and included $364 million in equity gains.
These equity gains were up $303 million from last quarter but were in line with our quarterly average last year of $370 million.
Trading gains increased $210 million from the last quarter reflecting the benefit from $109 million of higher deferred compensation plan investment results which is offset in expense and stronger core customer accommodation trading.
Trust and investment fees increased $181 million up 7% from the fourth quarter from higher retail brokerage transaction activity and asset-based fees.
Turning to expenses.
Recall that we indicated last quarter that costs will remain elevated in the first quarter.
Noninterest expense increased $485 million from the fourth quarter driven primarily by 2 factors higher personnel expenses and operating losses.
Now let me walk you through the first quarter expenses in more detail on Page 11.
Employee compensation expense increased for 3 primary reasons: first we had $476 million of seasonally higher employee benefit expenses from higher payroll taxes and 401(k) matching; second we had $120 million of higher deferred compensation expenses which are offsetting revenue; and finally we had $166 million of higher commission and incentive compensation expenses driven by revenue growth in mortgage retail brokerage and insurance.
In addition we had $314 million of higher operating losses primarily due to additional litigation accruals for various legal matters.
Offsetting these increases was $262 million of lower merger integration and Compass severance expenses and $329 million in lower expenses from seasonally higher fourth quarter levels in equipment and foreclosed asset expense and other benefits including Compass cost saves.
As shown on Page 12 we expect second quarter expenses to decline by $500 million to $700 million driven by the elimination of merger integration expenses and lower personnel expense and we expect expenses to continue to decline over the remainder of the year.
As you will recall when we first provided you detail on our expense initiative in the second quarter of last year we stated that we expect that our fourth quarter 2012 expenses to be within the range of $10.75 billion to $11.25 billion with the target of $11 billion.
This target assumed a certain level of revenue growth which we now expect to be stronger than we originally assumed obviously a very good thing.
Because of expected higher revenue we're now targeting fourth quarter 2012 expenses to be $11.25 billion.
We have continued to make progress on reducing expenses through our Compass expense initiative.
For example noncustomer-facing team members and contractors in high-cost geographies are down 11% from the beginning of 2011 and we've reduced technology expense by 3% despite meaningful growth in IT-related volumes.
Turning briefly to our segment results starting on Page 13.
Community Banking earned $2.3 billion in the first quarter benefiting from strong mortgage results.
Retail banking sales continued to generate strong growth with core product sales up 9% from a year ago.
Retail banking cross-sell grew to 5.98 products per household up from 5.76 a year ago.
Cross-sell growth occurred throughout the franchise.
With the East cross-sell 86 basis points lower than the West we have plenty of opportunity to earn more business from our customers in the East.
Credit card penetration in our retail banking households continued to increase to 30% up from 27% a year ago.
We generated record consumer auto originations in the first quarter of $6 billion up 25% from fourth quarter and 10% from a year ago.
Wholesale Banking earned $1.9 billion in the first quarter up $232 million or 14% from the fourth quarter.
This strong bottom line growth reflects record revenue of $6 billion up 11% from the fourth quarter which was broad-based across our diversified commercial businesses.
Wholesale Banking also generated record pretax preprovision profit and positive operating leverage with the expense efficiency ratio improving to 50.6% in the first quarter compared with 54.2% in the fourth quarter.
Loan growth was broad-based reflecting new and existing customer growth and our ability to capitalize on acquisition opportunities in this environment.
For example we have grown our Commercial Banking portfolio for 20 consecutive months from new originations and increased line utilization from our middle-market customers.
During the past year we have completed $4.8 billion of loan portfolio acquisitions.
And this quarter we announced the acquisition of $3.9 billion on loans outstanding from BNP Paribas which we expect to close later this month.
Wealth Brokerage and Retirement earned $296 million.
Excluding the fourth quarter's gain on the sale of H.D.
Vest of $153 million earnings would have increased 34% from last quarter.
Revenue increased 1% from the fourth quarter.
Again excluding the fourth quarter H.D.
Vest gain revenue grew 6% from last quarter.
This growth was driven by higher asset-based fees strong brokerage transaction revenue and securities gains in the brokerage business.
Managed account assets were up $26 billion or 10% from the fourth quarter driven by strong net flows in market performance.
First quarter net flows reflect recovery to levels last seen in the second quarter of 2011.
Our continued focus on helping customers succeed financially drove cross-sell to 10.16 up from 9.85 a year ago.
Credit quality continued to improve this quarter as shown on Page 16.
Net charge-offs were down $245 million from the fourth quarter and were 1.25% of average loans down 48 basis points from a year ago and the lowest charge-off rate since 2007.
Provision expense was $2 billion including a $400 million reserve release in the first quarter.
Absent significant deterioration of the economy we continue to expect future reserve releases in 2012.
Nonaccrual loans increased $722 million from the fourth quarter.
This entire increase was a result of the reclassification of $1.7 billion of performing junior lien loans and lines to nonaccrual status in accordance with interagency guidance issued to the industry this quarter related to junior liens behind a delinquent senior lien loan.
Only 12% of these reclassified junior liens were 30 days or more past due.
This policy change had an immaterial impact on our earnings since the loans were already considered in our loan loss allowance and the related interest income impact was minimal.
Absent this policy change nonaccrual loans would have been down $948 million from the fourth quarter with declines in all loan categories.
This continues the trend of improvement that started in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Loans 90 days or more past due were down $412 million or 20% from the fourth quarter with declines in both commercial and consumer portfolios.
Early-stage consumer loan delinquency balances and rates also improved from the fourth quarter driven by seasonality but are also significantly better than a year ago as portfolio performance continued to improve.
We service $1.8 trillion of residential mortgages.
We like the cross-sell opportunities this provides and it also positions us well to benefit from refinance waves like we're experiencing now since existing customers usually give us the first chance when they refinance.
On Page 18 we highlight why we believe our servicing portfolio is the best in the industry.
71% of our servicing portfolio is service for the agency; only 5% are private securitizations and 79% of those were prime at origination and over 1/2 were originated prior to 2006.
Most of the loans we securitized were jumbo loans.
We do not have private label option ARM securities nor do we have a significant amount of home equity securitizations.
Reflecting the quality of our servicing portfolio our delinquency and foreclosure rate was nearly 400 basis points lower than the industry average excluding Wells Fargo based on the most recent publicly available data.
Our delinquency -- our total delinquency and foreclosure rate was 6.89% in the first quarter down from 7.2% a year ago and from a peak of 8.96% in the fourth quarter of 2009.
The repurchase reserve increased by $118 million in the first quarter.
Total repurchase demands were down $154 million from the fourth quarter down approximately 25% from a year ago and down 57% from the peak in the second quarter of 2010.
As shown on Page 20 our capital position continued to improve with our Tier 1 common equity ratio increasing to 9.95% and our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under current Basel III proposals growing to 7.81% up 31 basis points from the fourth quarter.
We've been able to grow our capital ratios while rewarding our shareholders by increasing our first quarter dividend by 83%.
We purchased 7.6 million shares in the first quarter primarily through a forward repurchase transaction entered into during the fourth quarter.
We called $875 million of 6.38% trust preferred securities in the first quarter which we redeemed today.
In summary our diversified business model focused on basic banking generated another quarter of outstanding results with record earnings robust revenue and pretax preprovision growth positive operating leverage and continued improvement in credit quality.
These results drove our ROA to 1.31% and increased our ROE to 12.14% and our capital ratios continued to grow.
We increased our dividend rate to $0.22 per share which we paid to our shareholders in the first quarter.
We are well positioned to continue to grow ending the quarter with a strong mortgage pipeline and we are focused on capitalizing on acquisition opportunities increasing our cross-sell growing our loans and deposits and reducing our expenses.
We look forward to sharing more details on our growth opportunities at our Investor Day next month.
I will now open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Joe Morford with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wondered Tim could you give us a sense of the yields you're getting on some of the loan portfolio purchases you've made to date and how additive they are to the margin? And also are you still seeing a good pipeline of opportunities and just how competitive is the market now for these acquisitions? Sure good question.
When you look at the yields that we received on our commercial real estate loans that we bought last year in a number of transactions they were more or less consistent with the rest of the portfolio.
These were generally high-quality loans.
As you recall a good portion of those were customers that we already knew.
So I would say that it was consistent with those yields.
And then in terms of the Burdale Capital Finance portfolio again it was pretty consistent high-quality stuff with the Capital Finance portfolio.
In terms of how competitive the market is I wouldn't say that it's really changed a whole lot.
I mean in any situation that we're seeing that we're interested in there's at least a handful of competitors and everybody wants to grow so you've got to pay an appropriate price.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one other is that you mentioned HARP accounted for around 15% of the origination volume in the first quarter.
Do you see that rising much and having a greater impact on your business? And beyond that just in general what are your thoughts on the current strength of the housing market? Well John do you want to...
Yes.
I want to tell you on the housing side we're seeing improvement.
And we've been seeing that for some time but we're seeing it more.
And it depends on the region of the country strength of course and the different price points.
But when you have the dynamics of higher rental rates and lower home values at great financing rates there's a point in time where the market's going to clear and you're going to see improvement.
I think we're getting very close to that tipping point and we've seen it in some of the markets.
In some markets like Northern California Texas the District of Columbia in that area stronger.
Other areas would be a bit weaker but we are seeing improvement there.
With respect to HARP you're right.
15% of our volume was HARP.
But we have a pretty good pipeline there.
HARP 2 is an opportunity for very high loan-to-value or "underwater" from an equity perspective current borrowers to refinance.
And we're going to see more volume in that.
And John maybe let me just add on to that.
And that is Joe most of the volume that we saw from HARP was from HARP 1.
And again about 15% of the total fundings in the first quarter.
So we're just beginning to see the results of HARP 2 start to kick in.
How long that continues we don't know.
But right now the mortgage business is very good for us.
Our next question will come from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering about if you could give us a little color on your approach to share buybacks.
Are you purely price-sensitive? Or does it kind of depend on what other uses of capital you have? Could you give us some color on how you think about the buybacks? Sure.
We've been very consistent with our view of rewarding shareholders.
First of all those of you who know us well know that we are very shareholder-friendly and -centric.
There's a number of dynamics that are going on right now.
We are still buying back TruPS.
We have increased our dividend by 83%.
We are going to -- we have approval to do more repurchase this year than last year.
We're very happy we went through the CCAR with no objections to our plan.
And we want to have enough capital around so we can grow this company.
And we believe we are a growth company.
So we will buy back when it's opportunistic for us to do that.
But again we have all of those other issues in play.
And I think balance consistency and a friendly view around rewarding our stockholders.
So again we have great emphasis on that; will really dictate what we do.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a question for Tim on expenses.
Tim any color on the pace of expense decline throughout the year from the second quarter third and fourth? Does it pick up steam? Or do you envision that kind of spread evenly throughout the quarters as we go towards that fourth quarter goal? Yes John a good question.
Again nothing's really fundamentally changed as we think about expenses from the prior quarter.
I mean we're committed to reducing our expenses and improving operating efficiency.
Again we feel good about the $500 million to $700 million.
But in terms of the specifics as it relates to the third and fourth quarter obviously to get down to the $11.25 billion target that we set it's going to have to be spread pretty evenly.
But again we feel confident in our ability to do it and are looking forward to it.
Yes John I'd like to add one thing to that.
We are absolutely committed.
But if we get to the fourth quarter and if for whatever reason there is all kinds of revenue available in a certain business or a number of businesses we're not going to be slavish to any one number.
We're going to do the right thing for the stockholder and we're going to make sure that we continue to produce the kind of results you want us to do.
But we are committed to that number.
We have plans in place.
We know we're going to get it but we're not going to be slavish to it.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Okay.
And then Tim is there any Compass savings that go beyond the fourth quarter? Are there savings that you'd be working on for the year 2013 out of Compass or anything else? Oh sure.
Absolutely.
I mean I think that's a really important point.
It's not as if we put together an expense focus and when we get to the fourth quarter and just stop being focused on improving operating efficiencies.
I mean I think that post the merger integration it really gives us an opportunity to focus on operating leverage and improved efficiencies.
And we'll continue to do that into '14 '15 and '16.
And we're not going to stop.
Yes absolutely.
And because the key here is if we're more efficient on things that customers don't want to pay for we can add sales people add more value to things that customers want to have so we can compete for revenues and grow our franchise and do all the things that add value.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a question on Basel III for Tim I guess.
Tim your pro forma ratio of risk-weighted assets to total assets under Basel III is high; it seems like almost 100%.
Where's the biggest inflation of your risk-weighted assets coming from under Basel III? Is it kind of the sub-investment grade securities that get hit pretty hard? And is there an opportunity to mitigate that over time? Well I don't know if I would describe it as an inflation of our numbers.
I mean we go through what we think is an appropriate review of all of our assets and try to compare them to what the Basel -- what we think the Basel III rules are going to be.
Others it may be where you're going that others have different ratios I don't know how anybody else is doing.
I know how we're doing it and I think we're doing it in an appropriate way.
Having said that obviously because it's an important ratio we're going to look at our risk-weighted assets and make sure that we're getting the good return on all of our risk-weighted assets as we roll into Basel III.
But I think the other important point is that regardless of what the risk-weighted asset level is capital's not an issue for us right? We're at 7.81%.
The minimum requirement for us we know is 7%.
Maybe there's going to be a SIV buffer maybe not.
And so we're not concerned about -- we're not overly concerned about that ratio but we spend a lot of time making sure that it's calculated correctly.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And does the treatment of MSR under Basel III affect at all how you decide or not decide to grow the business? Or will decisions to grow mortgage servicing or not be independent kind of capital treatment? I just want to get that.
Is that the factor in how you look at the MSR? John first of all we love the mortgage business.
We love it because our customers love it.
2/3 of our customers are in the mortgage business and I don't know how you can be in the consumer banking business if you're not in the mortgage business.
Along with checking accounts and mortgages that drives a lot of the household acquisition.
And once a customer does a mortgage with us great things happen.
They stay longer they buy more products so that's great.
And in our mortgage business specifically on the MSR as you know it's a balanced business.
Origination on one side and servicing on the other side and they move in opposite directions with what happens in interest rates.
Yes there is an element of the MSR that we think is not -- we don't agree with the treatment under Basel because we think it's as good an asset as you can have.
But that being said if rates do rise and the mortgage servicing asset goes up in value and less of it gets counted for capital or there's a bigger exclusion other great things happen in the company.
There's offsets and there's balances.
We're not going to let one ratio and one issue like that drive us away from the business that we think is a good thing for customers for our stockholders for everyone involved here.
It's not that we're oblivious to it and we're looking for other ways to mitigate it.
And we spend a lot of time on that.
But it's just not a deal stopper around here.
We love the business.
Your next question will come from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned that 15% of your total fundings were HARP.
Could you just give us a sense of the application volumes that have been HARP-related? And then I just had a follow-up question on the ultimate approval of HARP relative to other apps that you've been seeing.
Yes.
The application volumes again were about 15%.
HARP 2 was kind of rolled out in the middle of the quarter and so those applications are up a bit.
But I wouldn't describe -- it wasn't a significant portion of the first quarter volume.
Our expectation is they're probably going to increase.
But again we think it's a good program.
We think it will be helpful.
But it's in its early stages.
But obviously given the servicing book that we have we're going to be a large part of that program.
And Betsy one thing that's a little different about that you actually have to -- we spend a little more time marketing.
You have to actually go and talk with people and help them understand how they qualify and how they fit into the program.
And we're doing that.
We have feet on the street.
We have people available.
We have a big retail distribution and we think it's a -- first of all we think it's a good thing.
It's great to see people who have made their payments every month even though they're under water or hugely under water.
And now to be able to help them put a few hundred dollars extra in their pocket every month that's terrific.
Research Division</strong> So a little bit more expensive to get the refi in obviously.
But I guess the question is what is the -- what has the approval rate been? What do you think the approval rate is likely to be relative to other refis non-HARP refis? That's a fair question.
But I think we're too new to rate into the HARP 2 program.
I think over the next few months we'll have a better appreciation for that but I wouldn't want to guess on that one.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a minor question that has to do with loan growth.
I know that that's a priority for you.
Given the push-pull in the portfolio where you've got -- some of the portfolio is obviously still in runoff do you feel that you can drive net loan growth over the next year or so? Or do you have to wait for that runoff portfolio to really shrink a little bit more dramatically before you can anticipate that? No we think we could continue to drive the growth.
I mean you saw in the third and fourth quarter of last year that we saw point-to-point growth in both quarters.
This quarter we were down a bit.
But we feel good about our ability to grow loans organically as well.
And in addition as we mentioned we've been active from an acquisition standpoint.
So any quarter might be a little bit up a little bit down but over time we feel confident about our ability to grow the loan portfolio.
And we don't think we're going to need to wait until the liquidating portfolio just declines to a small number.
And Betsy the other thing is in the first quarter there is some seasonality.
So we typically see card balances coming down in the first quarter and then you see that change over the rest of the year.
So we believe we can grow organically here.
And as Tim mentioned it will be lumpy but we have lots of opportunity.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Then I guess just a last question on this topic is competition.
So clearly there's competition with other banks.
There's also competition with the capital markets right because interest rates are so low.
So I'm just wondering how do you deal with that particularly in the commercial real estate and the C&amp;I space where your borrowers might be able to access longer-term funds cheaper than they have historically.
Would they choose to be doing that as opposed to drawing down C&amp;I lines or doing a CRE...
Well they might.
No it's a fair question.
I think depending upon what's going on in the capital markets you can see kind of an ebb and flow back and forth.
And I think from our perspective look even though we want to grow loans the most important thing is do the right thing for the customer.
And because of the fact that we've got a broader base of product and services today including an investment banking capability unlike maybe where we were a few years ago we can help them do that.
So we sit down with our customers and give them our best recommendations.
If it's a commercial real estate customer whether or not we could do it on-balance sheet or whether we could do it in a CMBS market so on and so forth.
So there's no question there's always going to be competition from the capital markets.
It was a little bit less in the third quarter of last year a little bit more in the fourth quarter probably a little bit more steady state this quarter but you're going to see that ebb and flow.
Your next question will come from the line of Brian Foran with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I guess on the $1.7 billion reclass of home equities I totally realize you guys have already reserved for it.
But just in thinking about what the loss content on those loans might be I guess Chase kind of put out there a 55% cume loss rate on these kind of high-risk seconds.
Is that a reasonable guess for the type of reserves you would already have against that bucket? Yes.
Our experience hasn't been 55%.
I think that our view is that we needed to be consistent with this interagency guidance.
We had taken into consideration the fact that these were junior lien loans behind sub-performing first for an extended period of time.
This isn't the first time that we took that into consideration in our loan loss reserve so we think that we're adequately reserved.
But we haven't seen a disproportionate incremental loss rate on this portfolio relative to others.
But we've taken into consideration the loan loss reserve and we have for a while.
The biggest driver on losses here is jobs.
If people have income and if they have work that drives it more than anything else.
But also there's no question that once they don't have a job the severity is almost complete.
I mean so in other words you lose most of it.
But we're not running at those kind of numbers.
Research Division</strong> And then I know you've touched on a lot of the different aspects of HARP.
But just one follow-up would be on how does it affect the gain on sale outlook for the mortgage business over the remainder of the year? Well I think it's going to be just a function of volume.
I mean I think we -- if the HARP 2 is successful it will continue to increase volume.
The margins that we've had have been good.
But I think generally they've been a little bit overstated in the market in terms of media reports and the like.
Again HARP 2 loans are good the program seems to be catching on it's in its early stage.
And the way that we price those loans is as similar to any other refinance.
Research Division</strong> If I could sneak in just one last one I guess going back to John's question on the risk asset-weighted inflation.
I agree with everything you said.
But maybe the thing that's not obvious based your business mix is the $346 billion higher risk-weighted assets under Basel III versus Basel I as of March 31.
And how much of those -- that risk-weighted asset difference between Basel III and Basel I is something that would be permanent versus how much of it is from things that can be mitigated or reduced over time like subprime MBS that might be on the books or things like that? Well so let's step back for a minute.
I guess I'm disagreeing a little bit with the premise that somehow there's inflation in how we're calculating our risk-weighted assets under Basel III.
The rules for Basel I and Basel III are just different.
You've got to take into consideration things like operating risk.
You've got to take into consideration counterparty risk.
And everybody's doing that in the industry; we're doing that.
And so again we feel comfortable with our calculation.
We're not going to do anything inappropriate in terms of doing that calculation.
Having said that we're going to make sure that it's appropriate.
But again we're not overly concerned about our risk-weighted asset level just because of the fact that we've got adequate capital in the country -- or company excuse me.
Your next question will come from the line of Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us a sense of how you're treating any associated seconds if you're refinancing a first under the HARP program particularly if there is an underwater situation? Well we normally look at the exposure together or in tandem.
But in terms of any additional specifics we can get back to you.
We'll talk to our mortgage folks and follow up.
But I don't think there's anything special going on.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'm just wondering I understand that the $1.7 billion increase in the home equity problem loans was part of a reclassification.
But is the improvement generally in home equity problem loans for the industry going to be stagnant as perhaps some of the underwater home equity loans are charged off as the first are refinanced under HARP? Am I thinking about this the wrong way or...
No I think you said -- here's how we think about it.
Every time anything we can do to help a customer reduce their first mortgage obligations through refinancing to lower rates or modifications of the first obviously helps the second because it's about the total expense and the debt coverage around that.
So as part of how we normally work with customers we look at with respect to their debt and we work through the refinancing.
So the reclassification has really nothing to do with how we're going to work with customers or how we feel about future losses.
It's merely an interagency rule that we are honoring.
We have seen our home equity losses continue to come down.
That's been a function of working through some of the more challenged customers early.
And it's also been because of refinancing to lower rates to taking pressure off plus the improved job situation employment situation.
So all those 3 have helped on the home equity portfolio.
And I think we'll see continued improvement there.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just one last question it's a follow-up to Joe's question.
The loans that were required from BNP are they going to be in line with the commercial yields on the books today or accretive? Well we haven't acquired them yet.
The deal should close this month.
When we look at that portfolio again it's a high-quality portfolio.
We're familiar with many of the borrowers and we have relationships with them right now.
We're in a number of the deals so I would say it's consistent.
Your next question will come from the line of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> So a couple questions.
First one is sort of a follow-up to John McDonald's question on the operating cost.
And I guess I'm just trying to think about the trajectory of the decline and how you're describing it.
I get the idea of getting to the high end of the range by 4Q on higher revenue.
But in the fourth quarter you were $12.5 billion on costs.
You said we're expecting to remain elevated in the first quarter but then decline significantly starting in the second quarter.
Now we're up to $13 billion and you're looking for a $500 million to $700 million decline in the second quarter.
That takes us down to $12.3 billion to $12.5 billion on your guidance.
So I guess I'm wondering why is that second quarter number not materially below the fourth quarter number.
Do you -- especially given that it won't include a Wachovia integration cost whereas the fourth quarter included a fairly large one do you expect more litigation? Or what is it that I'm missing on sort of 2Q versus 4Q? Well Ed I think that based on what we see in the second quarter we're comfortable in providing the guidance that our expenses are going to be down between $500 million and $700 million.
Could they be a little bit more than that? They could right? But we're comfortable with that number right now.
And again that number is based upon an expectation of revenues.
We feel comfortable -- as we mentioned we entered this quarter with some nice tailwinds in terms of the mortgage pipeline as well as some acquisitions that we've mentioned.
So could the number be a little bit bigger? It could but we're comfortable with that range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But given that you don't -- if we take out Wachovia integration expense from the fourth quarter it would actually be up somewhat from the fourth quarter ex integration cost.
Is that outlook because of higher incentive comp? Or what is it that would be driving that core number up a little bit versus 4Q as opposed to down ex the Wachovia integration in 4Q? I just trying to understand the point where your thoughts are on how that's trending.
Yes.
I mean you're jumping to the conclusion that it will be up.
We're saying that we feel comfortable with the $500 million to $700 million guidance.
There's always going to be some puts and takes in our expenses as we move through the quarter.
But again we believe that we're going into this quarter with nice revenue right? And as we've demonstrated this quarter when you think about it our revenue was up $1 billion from the fourth quarter.
Do you have a little bit more expense related there? Of course you do.
Our revenue was up $1.3 billion from the first quarter last year.
Were there a little bit higher expenses? Of course there were.
So we're feeling good about this quarter right and we feel good about the $500 million to $700 million.
Could it be a little bit higher in terms of the reduction? Sure it could.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then just one more.
When I look at the net interest margin and expanding by 2 basis points what seems to have been sort of the surprise factor was the overall yield on your commercial loan portfolio going up by 6 basis points from 4.10% to 4.16% in the fourth quarter to the first quarter.
Is there anything in there that's abnormal? Or is there any thoughts about what caused the yield on the commercial loan portfolio to go up a little bit linked quarter versus down a little bit? No I wouldn't say there's anything abnormal in that.
I think we're starting to see the yield settle down just a bit.
Every quarter we have some level of volatility in terms of special items that are in the numbers and you saw some of that last year too.
But there's nothing abnormal in there.
Yes.
And that's actually influenced a little bit by some of the workouts that we do on the commercial side.
So that's -- that will bump around a little bit.
But I think it's important as long as we're talking about the NIM to mention 2 things.
And you know both of these Ed.
First of all we don't manage the company around the NIM.
And secondly I think still think it's going to be under pressure going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I didn't get a chance to look real closely at sort of how the accretive yield came in.
But were there some commercial loan sale gain that sort of impacted -- unmarked commercial loans that sort of impacted that yield at all in the first quarter or not really? It wasn't much.
But there's always a little bit here and there.
No that wasn't a driver in terms of the NIM.
And in fact the accretion was actually down a little bit from $552 million to $514 million in the first quarter.
Your next question will come from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I know you're probably sick of talking about HARP.
But as of April 1 I mean have you guys disclosed how much of HARP-eligible loans is in your servicing portfolio? No.
Research Division</strong> And secondly as of April 1 I believe that you can start to refi other people's servicing portfolios under HARP.
I'm just wondering I think the jury's out if that's a smart move or not.
Have you made any decision on that yet? Well Paul how we think about that first of all since a lot of HARP loans you get through a marketing you need to kind of know where people are.
It's easier to do your own portfolio than someone else's.
That being said we want to take on all comers and this is where our cross-sell in the community bank gets very involved as they talk with customers and frankly other parts of the company where we are able -- if someone has a mortgage that's not with us that we can do.
But I would say we'll know more about that as time goes on.
But I would bet the biggest part of the HARP 2s that we will do will be for our own portfolio just pulling [ph] the information.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then going back because I didn't quite understand the answer I didn't get it correct I think.
On the HELOC portfolio of which I believe is like close to $1.6 billion that you moved over was there other -- $1.7 billion sorry about that.
Was there other loans that where the first is defaulted that are not nonaccruals in the HELOC portfolio? No.
Research Division</strong> No.
So this is the entire community of loans where the first has been defaulted? Correct.
Correct.
Your next question will come from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Hopefully I didn't miss it.
I know you commented on NIM being under pressure but growing loans.
When we combine those 2 and think about your both capacity and desire to buy some more securities how does that all shake out for net interest income dollars from here? Well I think as John said we continue to believe that the net interest margins could be under pressure.
Having said that I think that we've got the ability to grow loans organically.
We believe that we can do that.
The core loans were up again this quarter a little bit less than in the third and fourth quarter but we feel confident about our ability to grow our core loans.
And one of the other things that I think is important to note is that the diversification in terms of the loan growth this quarter was a little bit better than the third and the fourth quarter because we saw auto loans and student loans growing whereas in the third and the fourth quarter it was a little bit more of that focus on Wholesale Banking.
As it relates to -- but the other avenue we have obviously to grow loans is through acquisition.
We continue to demonstrate that we're active there and we're paying appropriate prices and bringing new customers to the company.
In terms of securities purchases we're going to continue to manage the portfolio as we have very prudently.
We're not going too far out under the curve.
Having said that if we got incremental liquidity that's not needed for our customers in terms of loans we're going to invest appropriately.
And you saw our securities increase about $7 billion to $8 billion this quarter so we'll continue to do that.
And then I think the other point to make is just in terms of the input costs and that is we've been able to continue to grow deposits while reducing our deposit costs.
So we feel good about the ability to grow net interest income.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then separately as we think about the provision expense I was just looking at one of the slides over the last few quarters the provision expense in dollars has been relatively stable.
It seems like you still have quite a bit of excess loan loss reserves most of the credit metrics continue to improve from here or up until here.
How do we think about the pace of reserve release going forward? Yes.
That's a fair question.
I think we believe that we'll have incremental reserve release whether -- I'm not 100% sure what the pace is going to be.
We don't really make those decisions until the end of the quarter.
But we do think based upon the continued improvement in the portfolio which we've continued to see that we will have additional reserve release.
But it's going to be less than it was last year.
I mean the pace of improvement has slowed down a little bit.
I think the important thing is that we've gotten through the point at which the lines of the reduction in the loan loss reserve release and the improvement in charge-offs cross so that what we're seeing is a real kind of buttoned-down provision expense and net charge-off level.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly if I could sneak in a third one here.
The tax rate calculation was around 35% this quarter.
It's averaged probably 25% to 33% the last 3 years.
Anything different or just a little more conservative earlier in the year? Well it was up a bit this quarter.
And we think that the tax rate for 2012 is going to be higher than last year because we're making more money.
But beyond that I wouldn't read anything into it.
Your next question will come from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just to further clarify.
So your expense guidance is $250 million higher.
And John you said you're not going to be slavish to any one target.
Can you guys commit to having positive operating leverage? Yes.
Yes absolutely.
Research Division</strong> So you're going to miss it but revenues will be a lot more higher -- or at least higher than that $250 million no matter how we slice it.
We're not saying that.
No we're not going to miss it.
Okay a year ago we gave guidance right 6 quarters ahead and we gave you a range of $10.75 billion to $11.250 billion.
But we said then and we said now those are based upon a certain set of revenue assumptions so we're going to come in at the high end of the range...
Because revenues are at a high.
Because revenues are higher not because we're executing on our expense reductions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately John especially for you if I asked you 15 years ago what bank this quarter might have some of the best year-over-year growth in investment banking as you guys said it's up 20% a record wholesale and the biggest absolute growth in syndicated loan volume would you ever have guessed it'd be your company as opposed to JPMorgan Bank of America Citi Goldman Morgan Stanley or some of these firms that are no longer around? So my question really is is this mission creep? Is this opportunism? What's changed from going back? And I know you've evolved with your acquisitions and I'm sure we'll talk more about this at Investor Day.
But it seems as though you're getting farther away from what made at least legacy companies strong and you're doing more activities further away from your headquarters.
So how should we think about that? Well when I think of 15 years ago I had a mustache and dark hair so you're dating me now.
But let's think about this Mike.
The company today clearly has evolved.
But I think it is a more customer-relevant safer.
Our risk profile is reduced from 15 years ago.
And if you think about the business look at the balance in the business today.
But before I get to that what stayed consistent is we continue to be a relationship business.
We're in a relationship the long-term relationship with our customers.
And today we have more products to offer to these customers to help them succeed financially.
We're more balanced.
If you look at our income statement this quarter 1/2 of the revenue comes from fees for services 1/2 from the margin.
1/2 comes basically from wholesale and 1/2 from consumer.
We now have diversity of geography.
So I think if you look at that 15-year period you should even be happier today than -- and it's safer more diversified more customer-focused more value.
And we'll talk about this more at Investor Day.
But I think the evolution to that time reinforce what we were trying to do 15 years ago not moving away from it.
Research Division</strong> And then specifically as it relates to syndicated loans I'm surprised when I look at first quarter of this year versus first quarter of last year the biggest dollar amount increase in acting as agent for syndicated loans is Wells Fargo.
And I'm just...
You know what Mike that's a great thing.
Why are people coming to -- why are customers coming to Wells Fargo? Because they believe in our model they believe in the company.
They like the people they work with.
They know that we've got a strong balance sheet.
They know that we're going to be able to deliver for us right? That's a great thing.
It diversifies the business and it reinforces the model.
Everything around here starts with the customer.
Why wouldn't we want to help our customers? Why wouldn't we want if we deal with a large Fortune 500 company and we're doing loan business with them and they want to issue debt to buy a subsidiary or whatever.
But why wouldn't we want to help them do that? We happen to have 15 000 terrific retail brokerage people out there advisors who can help with that and sell this and we have great people on to help them price the debt or the equity.
This is what we ought to be doing.
Research Division</strong> And then last follow-up -- I'll let you finish too but we can finish at the Investor Day.
But is some of this opportunistic though? Because the European banks' market share in this area has gone from what 37% down to 21% over the past year.
So not only I guess I'm hearing you say your clients want this more but is this some Wells Fargo opportunism? Well of course.
There are -- some of the foreign banks are retreating to their home countries.
The industry has changed in a lot of these areas.
And we celebrated our 160th birthday a few weeks ago.
We've always evolved.
We always have change in product offerings and channels.
But what stayed true around here and will continue to stay is that it's all about long-term relationships with our customers helping them succeed.
So when I look at percentage changes from year-over-year or whatever I don't -- first of all percentages always have a numerator and denominator and I don't get too excited about that.
What I get excited about is if we keep customers at the center of what we do great things happen.
It always does.
Your next question will come from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions for you here.
Something we haven't heard a lot about lately is Wells Fargo Financial.
Could you guys just talk about what the results have been since you've moved or tried to move the Wells Fargo Financial people into the branch? Well those folks -- most of those folks on the production side many of them went into the banks and they've become personal bankers.
They're helping us serve customers make loans.
So yes that's been very successful.
LLC Research Division</strong> Have you been able to track how many -- how much business you might have lost for people who just don't want to go into a bank branch to get their loan or whatever? We've really not but what's happened is we actually had more distribution now because we got rid of 700 or 800 stores but we picked up 3 000 with the acquisition of Wachovia.
So I don't -- I've not heard -- as I'm out there on the street I've not ever heard from anyone that I prefer not going to a bank where I'd prefer going to a finance office.
What's changed mostly in that business Nancy is that much of what we did in Financial were loan accommodations where we would take 3 or 4 different loans and be a debt consolidation on homes.
And of course what's happened to home value is that business really changed a lot.
But the people we brought over were primarily lenders.
They knew that part of the business well so that helped enculturate even more in our banking stores this idea that we want to also be a great place to borrow money if your credit qualified.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And my second question sort of goes back to this point and it incorporates HARP and HAMP and all the other issues that we've had around mortgage banking.
But it's an issue -- or it's a question that relates more to moral hazard going forward.
We've had all these changes.
People have found that they can have their principal reduced they can have their rates reduced et cetera et cetera.
So how does that impact your underwriting of a mortgage going forward? Do you have to put a big orange sticker on it saying "We really mean this this is really what the thing is going to be"? Or I mean how do you think about that protecting yourself going forward? Well it's a great question.
So a couple things first of all to think about.
Of the 50 million mortgages in America about 10 million or 11 million are underwater.
And of those 11 million 90% or so are current.
So generally Americans by a vast majority want to pay their bills if they have the income to do it.
Secondly you build your best portfolios whether it's for your own account or whether you sell it off and keep the servicing you build your best portfolios after a downturn not going into a downturn.
And when the bubble is expanding usually you have your worst portfolio builds.
And the third thing is on the big yellow sticker I don't know that -- or the orange sticker.
Today in fact since really 2008 the mortgage business has retrenched and it's more like it was done prior to 2002 or '03 where there is full documentation income verification a proper amount down depending on which program it is.
So I'm -- and I think nothing would fix all of this more than a little appreciation in housing and getting to the bottom which I think we're very close to that point where we're going to see an inflection point here.
So I don't know if I answered your question but that's how we think about it.
LLC Research Division</strong> So do you think you're just getting a better customer who will treat their mortgage document a bit more carefully or take it more seriously going forward than did some of the people coming into this? Nancy I think it's a good point.
I think everybody involved in a mortgage needs to have skin in the game such that mortgages are good.
I mean that's the originator that's the borrower that's the realtor that puts the borrower and whatever together if it's a purchase.
It's the people who package and the rating agencies and the servicing.
And mortgages aren't complete until they pay off and it's well done so it's the whole process.
I think everybody is showing more care and diligence today and that's a good thing.
Your next question will come from the line of Scott Siefers with Sandler O'Neill.
I just had a quick question on the mechanics of the new regulatory guidance in that $1.7 billion that you moved over.
So since it's now a nonaccrual obviously you don't accrue the interest but the vast majority is still paying so the cash is coming in.
When you receive that cash does that go into NII now? Or does it go directly to pay down principal balances on the related loans? How does that work? Like all nonperforming assets or nonperforming loans this isn't different.
It pays down the principal.
Okay.
So there's some -- in your case it's an extraordinarily small amount but on a kind of go-forward ramification I guess to the earnings stream then.
It's not material.
Your next question will come from the line of Fred Cannon with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Brian Kleinhanzl on for Fred.
So I just had a quick question on the rep and warranty.
It looks like the repurchase demands are coming down or have been coming down for the last couple of quarters but the reserve keeps building from here.
I mean is there a target you're trying to get to? Or when can we finally see that the reserves come down for the rep and warranty? Yes.
And fair question.
The total demands outstanding both number and balances were down in the first quarter and were down kind of roughly 25% year-over-year.
The new agency demands for the more difficult vintages the '06 to '08 vintages declined a bit from the fourth quarter.
But the additions that we put into the reserve were more or less in line with last quarter.
We continue to add to the reserve do the elevated demands from Fannie.
And because of the projected higher mortgage insurance rescissions Freddie's been in line.
So we're hopeful it's going to come down at some point.
But we just haven't seen it come down enough yet so that we would want to reduce the reserve.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on a separate topic you used to give a disclosure about the excess liquidity that you held on the balance sheet.
Haven't seen that in the last couple of quarters.
What is it that you think the excess liquidity is right now on the balance sheet? And given that the Basel committee has just come out with saying that there's going to be a large shortfall under a third Basel III standard is it -- what is your idea of what that excess liquidity is for you? Yes I don't recall -- we'll go back.
I don't recall us giving any sort of guidance as to what our excess liquidity is.
I can tell you that we've got a lot of liquidity right now which is terrific.
It's allowed us to grow the loan portfolio year-over-year and grow the securities portfolio in a smart way.
And we're still working through and the regulators are still working through what the new liquidity guidance is going to be related to Basel III.
There's a lot of discussion going on about that.
But when you look at our balance sheet particularly how we're continuing to grow low-cost deposits we don't have a liquidity issue at all.
See I think that's the key Brian.
When you look at this company our liquidity is such solid.
I mean can you imagine $900 billion plus of deposits at 20 basis points and again virtually all of it’s core; a big chunk of it is consumer.
So this is just so so valuable and so undervalued today given where interest rates are.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just a quick question on the deposit costs.
I mean we saw them come down again this quarter basically on that core funding.
Is there still room for those to come down in the following quarters? I mean they're already kind of an industry low.
So have you guys think that there's a lot more room? You know what every time we get down to a lower number we talk to our folks and we ask them to continue to not compete on price continue to compete on value and relationship.
And I think that's one of the primary reasons we're able to continue to reduce cost.
Whether or not we're going to be able to continue to do that in the future I don't know for sure.
And you are getting pretty close here but it's down 10 basis points in a year.
I don't think you sat here a year ago and said "Could you bring it down 10?" People would've said "I don't think you can." So we're always looking to find that right area.
But the reason they're coming down is more about the mix as opposed -- we have to compete which we do but when you have the number of checking or near checking that we have that's just -- that's magical.
Your next question will come from Andrew Marquardt with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on that last question.
In terms of the margin guidance you had talked about how despite the 2 basis points better this quarter that we should expect some pressure going forward.
Just hoping we can get some color in terms of magnitude.
Is it kind of in the low single-digit range? And then it also sounds like despite that you still feel confident in holding the NII up with loan growth and earning asset growth.
Yes.
Andrew it's a fair question because there's been a lot of volatility in the NIM which is candidly why we don't manage to it.
I don't know what the NIM is going to be this quarter and I don't know what it's going to be next quarter.
What we do know is just the math is that there's pressure on it for sure.
We're hopeful that we can continue to relieve that pressure as best we can through a reduction in our deposit costs.
But in terms of specifics I'm not going to provide any guidance because I can't.
But Andrew you're right on the fact that -- forget the margin.
Look at net interest income.
That's really what drives us because that's the result of the work we do every day of getting new customers and selling them more things and so forth getting deposits and selling loans.
And I wake up and think about that more than I do about the NIM.
And there we think we have good opportunities to continue to produce the kind of things that drive net interest income.
Research Division</strong> So is it fair to assume then the confidence in terms of a higher NIM really won't come until the macro backdrop really improves in terms of a higher rate environment? Is that fair or maybe the run-off portfolio slows? I think it -- I wouldn't say it's confidence.
I think it's just more probability.
I think it's less likely that the NIM is going to grow.
Not impossible because we've been able to grow it a little bit over -- a few basis points in the last couple of quarters since the decline in the third quarter last year.
It's just a little bit less likely.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then lastly just on the -- going back to expenses in terms of the slight change in terms of the guidance for year end at the upper end now you had mentioned that that's driven by higher confidence in revenue.
You're feeling better about revenue more than you have before.
Can you help us understand exactly where exactly do you feel better about it? Is it really mortgage banking or trading? Or what is it that makes you feel better? Across-the-board.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no one particular area feeling better in terms of mortgage having greater strength or trading coming in better? No.
Your final question will come from the line of Chris Mutascio with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have 3 quick questions.
Tim on the margin guidance in terms of percent or dollar amount does that take into consideration perhaps a more aggressive TruPS redemptions than just the $875 million announced today or are redeeming today? No we're getting through really the end of the -- the tail end of the TruPS redemptions that we're going to be doing.
I mean most of the activity occurred last year.
So that's -- we'll continue to redeem TruPS in an appropriate way but it's not going to be as big a driver as it was last year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second thing is gain on sale margins this quarter versus last quarter do you have those handy on the mortgage side? Yes I think it was -- this quarter was I think 2.36%.
And that's up from 1.9% in the fourth quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally with the robo-signing settlement do you have discretion on who you modify? In other words can you modify the firsts that are delinquent ahead of the -- of your own home equity loans? We certainly have discretion in terms of what you modify.
I mean there's not -- there aren't specific requirements for specific borrowers.
We may -- and there's a lot of detail in our 10-K in terms of the specifics on the settlement.
And I would -- rather than go through that in detail right now I'd just ask you to take a peek at that.
We provide a lot of detail about how we see the settlement and how it would affect us.
Thank you everybody.
And thanks for joining our call.
We appreciate your interest and also the ones who asked the questions.
Thank you much and we will see you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Rowe you may begin your conference.
Thank you Regina and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf; and our CFO Tim Sloan will review third quarter results and answer your questions.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that our third quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at wellsfargo.com.
I’d also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today’s call that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings; including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.
Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can also be found in our SEC filings in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website.
I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Our results in the third quarter demonstrated the underlying strength of our diversified business model and our ability to earn more of our customers’ business driving outstanding performance throughout our franchise.
Let me quickly review some of the highlights of the quarter.
We achieved record net income up 22% from a year ago and EPS was also up 22%.
Revenue grew 8% and pre-tax pre-provision profit increased 14% from a year ago.
Our core loan portfolio grew 6% and core deposits were also up 6% from a year ago.
We had positive operating leverage and our efficiency ratio improved by 240 basis points from year ago.
We had continued strong underlying credit performance.
Our profitability ratios reflected these strong results with a return on assets growing to 1.45% up 19 basis points from year-ago the highest it’s been in five years.
Our return on equity increased to 13.38% up 152 basis points from a year-ago.
Our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under Basel III reached 8.02% as we continue to have strong capital growth while remaining focus on returning more capital to our shareholders.
This strong performance during a period of slow and uneven economic growth was driven by momentum across Wells Fargo’s diversified businesses.
We have a broad set of products that enables us to meet all of our customers’ financial needs which is reflected by our record retail banking cross-sell this quarter of 6.04 products per household.
In the current low rate environment our mortgage business continued to benefit from the strong refi and purchase volume.
And credit quality reflected an improving housing market.
Our credit card business is successfully generating new account growth up 46% from a year-ago and we are focused on increasing customer card usage which is generating strong balance and fee growth.
We’ve grown managed account assets in our retail brokerage business over 25% in the past 12 months driven by strong net flows and market performance.
Our wholesale banking business continues to meet the financial needs of our commercial customers generating nine consecutive quarters of loan growth from our middle market customers.
We are also meeting the lending needs of our small business customers with $11.4 billion of new loan commitments so far this year up approximately 30% from a year ago.
These are just a few examples of the momentum we have throughout our businesses as we remain focused on better serving our customers while we continue to be diligent in managing our costs and risks.
Our ability to meet a broadly diversified set of customer needs throughout a variety of economic cycles is a clear Wells Fargo advantage and contributed to another strong quarter for our company.
Tim Sloan our Chief Financial Officer will now provide more details on our financial results.
Tim? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
My remarks will follow the presentation included in the first half of our quarterly supplement starting on Page 2 and then John and I will take your questions.
As John highlighted we had a very strong quarter with record earnings of $4.9 billion up 7% from the second quarter.
Earnings per share were a record $0.88 up 7% from last quarter our 11<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter of EPS growth and the 6<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter of record EPS.
Our ability to consistently generate earnings growth reflects the benefit of our diversified business model.
We are balanced between fee and spread income and our sources of fee generation are also very diversified.
As John highlighted we had many businesses serving our commercial and consumer customers that had strong growth this quarter and I’ll provide more examples throughout my comments today.
I’m going to highlight some of the key drivers of our results this quarter starting on Page 4 and then I’ll discuss them in more detail later in my remarks.
We had strong balance sheet growth in the quarter.
We grew both our total and core loan portfolios with growth in commercial and consumer portfolios.
We once again had strong deposit growth with balances up $23 billion.
Turning to credit we continue to have strong underlying credit performance this quarter.
However our reported results were affected by regulatory guidance issued to the industry by the OCC.
The guidance covers consumer loans that are current or less than 60 days delinquent where the borrower has declared bankruptcy.
The implementation of this guidance resulted in a $1.4 billion reclassification of performing consumer loans to non-accrual and a $567 million in net charge-offs which was fully covered by our loan loss reserves.
Absent this change credit performance continued to improve which I’ll also highlight later on the call.
Turning to the income statement net interest income was down as our net interest margin declined as expected from the second quarter.
We had strong non-interest income growth across a number of our businesses this quarter and we remain focused on reducing expenses and we generated positive operating leverage.
Let me now cover our business drivers in more detail.
As shown on page six period-end loans were up $7.4 billion in the second quarter with growth across a number of commercial and consumer portfolios.
The liquidating portfolio declined by $4.5 billion and our core loan portfolio grew by $11.9 billion.
We’ve now grown our core portfolio for eight consecutive quarters.
Commercial loans declined $1.5 billion as growth in C&amp;I and real estate construction loans was offset by declines in our real estate mortgage loans leases and foreign portfolios.
Consumer loans increased by $8.9 billion with growth in first mortgage auto credit card and private student lending.
The growth in our first mortgage portfolio was due to our decision to retain $9.8 billion of new conforming fixed rate production with most of this coming later in the quarter.
While retaining these mortgage loans on our balance sheet reduced mortgage revenue this quarter we expect to generate spread income in future quarters for mortgage loans with higher yields than mortgage-backed securities we could have purchased in the market.
We are in a unique position to have a large enough mortgage business and strong capital to be able to make these choices that should benefit long-term results.
We currently expect to retain additional conforming mortgages in the fourth quarter.
Average loan balances increased $8.5 billion from the second quarter benefiting from the strong consumer loan growth in the late second quarter close of the WestLB portfolio.
Deposit growth remained strong this quarter with average deposits up $22.5 billion from the second quarter and up $63.9 billion or 7% from a year ago.
Average core checking and savings deposits were up 9% from a year ago and were 94% of average core deposits.
We continue to benefit from lower deposit costs with average deposit costs of 18 basis points in the third quarter down one basis point from the second quarter and down seven basis points from a year ago.
We’ve successfully grown deposits while reducing our deposit costs for eight consecutive quarters.
Tax equivalent net interest income declined $393 million from the second quarter.
average earning assets grew $26.3 billion linked-quarter with growth in short-term investments and mortgages held for sale.
as we expected the NIM was under pressure this quarter.
The 25 basis point decline in the net interest margin was driven by three primary factors.
First variable income declined from strong second quarter levels which accounted for 10 basis points of the linked-quarter decline in the net interest margin.
second approximately eight basis points of the margin pressure was driven by continued balance sheet repricing as higher yielding earning assets ran off and we were cautious in our reinvestment activity focusing on shorter duration securities.
Specifically six basis points of the decline was from our available-for-sale portfolio and two basis points of the decline was from the loan portfolio.
Third the remaining seven basis points was driven by strong deposit growth we had in the quarter and invested in short-term investments in Fed funds sold.
As we’ve highlighted for the past year or so we expect continued pressure on the net interest margin given the slow rate environment.
however we don’t believe the net interest margin decline we had this quarter is representative of what we’ll see in the future.
Noninterest income increased $299 million from the second quarter up 3%.
growth was broad-based and included a 6% increase in deposit service charges which was driven by product and pricing changes that we have now rolled out throughout our geographies.
Trust and investment fees grew $56 million or 2% from the second quarter reflecting strong asset-based fees in retail brokerage and asset management as well as higher retail brokerage transaction volume.
Credit card fees increased 6% from the second quarter driven by new account growth and higher volumes including a 5% increase in credit card transactions.
Trading gains were up $266 million with $153 million of higher deferred compensation plan investment income which was offset in employee benefit expense and stronger customer accommodation trading results.
Mortgage banking revenue declined $86 million from the second quarter driven by lower servicing income.
The decline in servicing income was primarily due to a $350 million reduction in our MSR valuation for updating servicing and foreclosure costs.
the ratio of MSRs to related loan service for others was ahead a historical low 63 basis points.
Mortgage gain on sale revenue was up $396 million from the second quarter despite approximately $200 million in forgone revenue from retaining conforming mortgage loans which I mentioned earlier.
Third quarter results included a $462 million provision for mortgage repurchase losses which was $207 million lower than the second quarter.
Mortgage originations were $139 billion in the third quarter up $8 billion from the second quarter and up $50 billion from a year-ago.
14% of our origination volume this quarter was from HARP.
The unclosed mortgage pipeline at quarter end was $97 billion down from last quarter but still very strong and volume during the first few weeks of October has accelerated as rates reached new lows.
Turning to expenses we continue to make progress in reducing costs.
Non-interest expenses were down $285 million from the second quarter.
This decline includes lower personnel expenses from lower severance costs.
Operating losses were down $243 million on lower litigation accruals.
Our litigation reserves consider all litigation matters we are aware off including the recently announced FHA lawsuit.
Insurance expenses declined $132 million due to seasonally lower insurance commissions.
Our efficiency ratio continued to improve down to 57.1% the lowest level in 10 quarters and within our target range of 55% to 59%.
We expect to be within this range in the fourth quarter.
While we are pleased with the progress we’ve made we remain focused on managing the expenses even as we continue to benefit from strong revenue opportunities throughout our businesses.
Turning to our segment results starting on page 11; community banking earned $2.7 billion in the third quarter up 8% from the second quarter.
Retail banking achieved a record cross-sell of 6.0 products per household up from 5.9 a year-ago.
Cross-sell in the West grew to 6.4 and reached 5.56 in the East.
We continue to have strong partner referrals including such products as insurance mortgage and student lending which were up more than 30% from a year ago.
To support future growth we consistently have invested throughout our franchise.
For example we increased platform banker FTEs in East by more than 500 or 5% from the second quarter.
Wholesale Banking earned record net income of $2 billion in the third quarter up 6% from the second quarter.
The results this quarter reflects strong fee income solid loan growth or expenses and improved credit quality.
Credit losses in Wholesale Banking were just eight basis points this quarter reflecting higher recoveries and improved performance.
We had strong results across a number of our wholesale businesses.
Let me give you a few examples.
Within our CMBS capital markets business we increased our market share from 8% in the second quarter to 15% in the third quarter as we securitize more of our home loans and also better met the securitization needs of our customers.
Our asset management business grew assets under management by 3% from the second quarter and Wholesale Banking’s cross-sell increased to 6.7 up from 6.5 at year-end 2011.
Wealth Brokerage and Retirement earned $338 million down 1% from the second quarter reflecting lower net interest income partially offset by higher brokerage transaction and asset-based revenue and lower net charge-offs.
WBR client assets were up 4% from the second quarter including strong growth in average core deposits up 2% and retail brokerage managed asset accounts up 7% driven by strong net flows and market performance.
Our continued focus on meeting our customers’ financial needs is reflected in achieving a record cross-sell ratio of 10.27 products for WBR household driven by growth in retail banking products.
Turning to credit quality as I highlighted at the beginning of my remarks our reported credit metrics were impacted by the implementation of the OCC industry guidance related to bankruptcies.
Page 14 highlights that our underlying credit trends adjusted for this impact continued to improve.
Let me review our trends adjusted for this impact.
Net charge-offs declined $409 million from the second quarter and were 92 basis points of average loans.
Provision expense was $1.6 billion in the third quarter down $209 million from the second quarter reflecting better credit performance.
Absent significant deterioration in the economy we continue to expect future reserve releases.
Another sign of improving underlying credit trends was a $4.3 billion addition to the accretable yield balance primarily from our Pick-a-Pay portfolio.
$3.6 billion was due to an increase in expected cash flows that did not affect the non-accretable difference and $687 million of the increase was a re-classification from non-accretable difference to accretable yield.
These increases reflect an improved housing market forecast and credit outlook and will be recognized through net interest income over the expected life of these loans which increased to approximately 13 years for our Pick-a-Pay portfolio.
Non-performing assets were down $1.1 billion from the second quarter and were 3.04% of total loans.
Loans 90 days or more past due increased $132 million from the second quarter reflecting normal seasonality in consumer loans but were down $437 million from a year ago.
Early stage consumer loan delinquency balances and rates also increased from the second quarter due to seasonality but were significantly better than a year ago.
Page 17 is just a reminder of the quality of our mortgage servicing portfolio with over 70% of the portfolios being with the agencies.
The quality of our portfolio is demonstrated by the low delinquency and foreclosure rate on our servicing portfolio which was over 400 basis points lower than the industry average excluding Wells Fargo based on the most recently publicly available data.
Our total delinquency and foreclosure rate was 7.32% in the third quarter down from 7.63% a year ago and a peak of 8.96% in the fourth quarter of 2009.
We added $462 million to our repurchase reserve this quarter down $207 million from the second quarter.
Our repurchase reserve considers both outstanding reserves and also our future expectations for demands.
Our repurchase reserve balance increased $269 million from the last quarter reflecting $156 million of lower losses.
New demands from GSCs were actually down in the third quarter; however our outstanding repurchase demands were up from the second quarter.
This increase reflects higher non-agency demands primarily due to new demands that have been previously reserved for.
Agency outstanding demands were also up linked- quarter which reflected the demands from increased file requests we highlighted last quarter as well as the time it’s taking to work through those demands with the agencies.
As shown on page 19 our Tier 1 common equity ratio was 10.06% down 2 basis points from the second quarter.
Our third quarter ratio reflects refinement to the risk weighting of certain unused leading commitments that provide for the ability to issue standby letters of credit which reduced the ratio by 32 basis points.
Importantly this update did not affect our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under Basel III capital proposals which grew to 8.02% in the third quarter.
We continue to have a very strong capital position.
We purchased 16.5 million shares in the third quarter and entered into a forward repurchase transaction for an estimated 9 million shares that is expected to settle in the fourth quarter.
As we’ve highlighted throughout the call today we had demonstrated momentum across our franchise as reflected in growth across a diverse group of consumer and commercial businesses.
We have many examples listed on page 20.
The main point is that across cycle different businesses drive our growth which has been the reason for our consistent performance.
In summary our balanced business model produced strong results again this quarter.
We once again achieved record earnings and EPS.
We grew pre-tax pre-provision profit achieved positive operating leverage with reduced expenses and had strong underlying credit performance.
Our ROA increased to 1.45% the highest in five years and within our target range of 1.3% to 1.6%.
Our ROE grew to 13.38% also within our target range of 12% to 15%.
Our ability to achieve this growth in the low rate environment that is putting pressure on our net interest margin and in a quarter when mortgage revenue actually declined slightly clearly demonstrates the underlying momentum we have across our franchise.
I’ll now open the call up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question will come from the line of Erika Penala with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Good morning Erika.
Good morning.
My first question was on the margin.
Is there a seasonality in terms of deposit flows because you have $92 billion average cash this quarter and it was $98 billion last year same quarter.
I’m just wondering we had sort of a similar step down and more stability in other quarters.
I'm just wondering if there is a seasonality in deposit flows that we hadn’t been taken to account? Erika that’s a good question.
I think throughout the year you can see some seasonality in our deposit flows.
I wouldn’t necessarily conclude that every third quarter we’re going to have deposit growth like we had in the third quarter of last year and this year.
But there is no question that part of the – and a big reason for the net interest margin decline was because of the strong deposit flows particularly what we saw in September.
And it’s clear that the momentum in core loan growth should absorb some of that excess cash on a go-forward basis.
But could you give us a sense of how you plan to deploy and how much of it of the excess cash that you plan to deploy on a go-forward basis your reinvestment strategy that’s not soaked up by core loan growth? Well the first call on any of our liquidity is for our customers and it’s really going to be focused on core loan growth.
As you saw this quarter we decided to hold $9.8 billion of our confirming first mortgage portfolio primarily because we viewed it as a very good investment opportunity for us given the risk award of holding those mortgages which were very high-quality versus buying a similar duration MBS at a big premium.
We were very cautious this quarter in terms of how we thought about our investment alternatives and we are doing that because we are thinking about the investment portfolio for the long-term.
And Erika I think that Tim is absolutely right on that.
We are going to be very careful at this point in time not to just go out there and stretch for yield and take on a lot of interest rate risk.
Okay.
But the first call is always for our customers.
Okay.
And just one last question on the margin and I’ll step off.
On slide 15 you mentioned that there was a $4.3 billion increase in the accretable yield I guess the way I’m thinking about this is as the housing market in the U.S.
recovers you can continue to reclassify more of the non-accretable into accretable.
And so that’s clearly going to be margin support on a go-forward basis.
And the negative impact that you’ve mentioned on the margin this quarter is that have to do with lower cash resolutions from the Wachovia legacy book than last quarter? And my thinking about the components put that way? No.
That’s correct.
The 10 basis points that we called out in the supplement was primarily because of lower resolutions and as we mentioned in second quarter at higher resolutions those are going to be volatile on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
But you’re absolutely correct when you think about the impact on the non-accretable yield to accretable yield and then the expectation of cash flows from that portfolio that as the housing market continues to improve that we’ll get benefit there.
Got it.
thank you for taking my questions.
Thanks Erika.
Your next question will come from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Tim could you perhaps maybe just drill down a little more into what you’re seeing from the agencies in terms of the put backs and you talked about a little bit could you kind of just – I mean some of your competitors have already kind of had their reserves to the point where they’re beginning to drive them down could you talk about that a little bit? Sure.
As we mentioned we added $462 million to their purchase reserve this quarter which was down from the second quarter which was $669 million.
There is a little bit of noise in the puts and takes here because the new agency demand levels were actually down.
so this sort of new agency demands were down this quarter which is a good sign.
I don’t necessarily think that it means we should declare victory and there are always going to be down but that’s a good sign that we haven’t seen for a while.
The outstanding demands from the GSEs were actually up a little bit and this reflects a couple of things; one remember our expectations from last quarter as well as the fact that it’s taken a little bit longer to work through our file request.
But the non-agency demands were actually up this quarter.
So there’s a lot going on there.
and we continue to have a lot of discussion with the agencies but there’s nothing that we’ve seen yet that would indicate that the decline that we saw this quarter is certainly a trend I hope it is but I can’t guarantee you that that’s going to be the case.
There are a couple of big you step back a little bit a couple of issues that are encouraging first of all real estate is getting better.
we start in housing a year ago and every quarter we have more confidence that this we’re not back to where we need to be and it’s not as robust as we’d all want it to be.
But that’s good on the repurchase side as values go up.
And secondly we continue to get further and further away or it’s further and really a mirror the 2006 and 2008 portfolio.
So every quarter we go we’re getting through that.
So those are things that are encouraging.
Great just on the mortgage banking front a couple of just interesting trends it looks like you took the pedal off on the correspondent business of touch and at the same time took the valuation of your MSR down whereas the JPMorgan had taken it up a little bit.
Just talk a little bit about how we should think about the interplay of both origination volumes into the fourth quarter in 2013 and maybe perhaps the valuation to MSR? Sure I’ll start with origination volume.
We ended the quarter with a pipeline that was a little bit less than the second quarter but it almost $100 billion it’s still very strong.
Right.
And as we mentioned volume has been strong so far this quarter being the fourth quarter.
So we expect to have a pretty strong mortgage quarter in the fourth quarter.
How long that last don’t know for sure but it feels like it’s going to last at least a few quarters and obviously we hope it does.
In terms of the MSR valuation the change that we made this quarter was just to continue to take into consideration the higher servicing and the foreclosure costs that we’re seeing and to include that in the valuation of our MSR and that yielded $350 million write-down.
Great.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Morford with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning.
Hi Joe.
Just first following up on the mortgage can you just also comment about gain on sale margin trends in the quarter and were they materially hired at all that you’ve been that means quarter end? No they were 2.21% which was about what it was in the second quarter at 2.2%.
Okay.
And then beyond that any thoughts on the potential impact of that the Fed’s NPRs now you’ve had more insight looking at that.
And also just going into CCAR 2013 any thoughts about you maybe your approach in it would be any difference than last year? Yeah in terms of the NPRs the Basel III estimate that we have for Tier 1 common equity takes into consideration a relatively conservative implementation of those.
So the 8.02% number we feel it’s a pretty solid number based upon what we know today.
We haven’t gotten any further updates or indication just because it’s a working process right now.
As it relates to CCAR we’re really looking forward to going through a CCAR and we’re looking forward to presenting our submission in the first quarter because it’s the way that we can continue to increase our capital return to our shareholders.
And as you know we had a very successful CCAR process this last year and our expectations are else we will have another successful one.
Let me reiterate what Tim just said which is really important.
We are really focused on getting more capital back to our stockholders.
That is best way to do that is perform well as we’re doing and have the capital we have and Tim said it’s a lot of work to CCAR and we’re looking forward to it.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks Joe.
Your next question will come from the line of Scott Siefers with Sandler O’Neill.
I just want to ask another question on the margin.
Is there anything that like surprised you in September I guess just relative to where you’ve been suggesting the month or so or ago that would be came in a little worse than that guidance? And then I guess along those lines I think in the past you’ve been pretty clear that you expected the margin to come under pressure but by the same token I’d hope that NII would be able to continue to grow.
Do you think you can offer this quarter’s base still generate positive NII growth? Yeah so a few questions in there all good ones.
The first one our deposit growth was a little bit stronger in September than we had expected which again is terrific that’s the way that we get most of our customers into the Wells Fargo.
So we are happy with that.
And secondly we had a fewer resolutions than we had estimated.
But I think it’s really important to step back and just reflect on what’s happened with our net interest margin over the past year.
Certainly the 25 basis point decline this quarter is high but when you think about it year-over-year our net interest margin is down 18 basis points.
So when you think about what happened during that year on a net interest margin decline of 18 basis points our net interest income is up 1% we’ve grown deposits by $51 billion.
We’ve originated $519 billion of residential mortgages.
Our efficiency ratio has improved from 59.5% to 57.1%.
And so when you total all this up and I’m sorry and credits improved and even adjusted for the OCC guidance our loan losses were down 50 basis points.
I say all that because while net interest margin is an important factor to look at.
What we really focus on is earnings per share and earnings per share were up 22% over that same period.
And I think that really reflects the strength of our diversified model.
There is no question that in this slow rate environment the NIM will continue to be under pressure.
Again we don’t believe that the 25 basis point decline that we saw this quarter is representative of what we’ll see in the future.
But what we do believe is that our performance is going to be representative of what we are going to see in the future because we’ve got a very strong diversified model.
And in answer to your last question I do believe that we can grow net interest income over time even in the phase of a declining net interest margin.
Okay.
Perfect.
That’s a helpful color I appreciate it.
And then I just wanted to switch back to the decision to portfolios some of the conforming mortgage as well.
I definitely understand the rationale relative to some of the other investment alternatives that you would have but I guess by the same token putting on mortgages at historically low rates potentially introduces some high risk of its own into the future.
I guess how did you kind of square that dynamic when you guys thought about it? Yeah I think it’s a very fair point a good question because any time we put any asset on the books we’ve got to think about the risk.
It’s not only about what kind of return we can get in the short-term but it’s about the risk of owning that asset whether it’s a loan or a security or whatever.
And so in making this decision we took into consideration interest rate risk credit risk as well as concentration risk and we are very comfortable given the size of our loan portfolio and the level of our liquidity and the level of interest rate risk that we have at the company that this incremental increase of $9.8 billion and the incremental mortgages that we mentioned that we will likely put on this quarter on the balance sheet is not going to significantly or materially affect our interest rate risk or credit risk.
If you think about this we’ve done this in the past.
And again it’s one of the tools that we have one of the leverage we can pull and we see a very nice a difference between the yield there versus if we bought RMBS as a security.
And again then you are paying 105 or 106 you are paying a premium and those things pay half yearly you know that premium amortization.
So there is a lot of bouncing here.
But we’ve done this before we’re aware of that it’s something that we think about it.
Okay perfect.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
Hi good morning guys.
Hi Ed.
Hello Ed.
So a couple of quick questions here.
Just first in terms of retaining the conforming fixed-rate mortgages the $9.8 billion.
Why is that a better decision then maybe retaining jumbo is that might have a higher yield and have equal or better credit quality? Oh Ed yeah we do that too.
Absolutely.
Given your giant origination volume can’t you just do more of that versus 30-year fixed conforming? Well we would like to do more of that and we’ve got a very strong nonconforming or jumbo origination capability and we want to and we’ll continue to grow that.
But in addition to that we thought it was a good idea given the risk written alternatives to hold these conforming mortgages too.
And this is just an example of how we think about managing the company for the long-term.
I mean we could have taken that $9.8 billion and had a gain on sale which would have been fine and increase the short-term earnings but we thought it was better to hold these high credit quality mortgages to generate income over a longer period of time.
And again we’ve retained all of our nonconforming jumbo mortgages we do not sell those.
Okay.
And then given what you’ve done to sort of the overall accretable yield balance taking that number up to almost $19 billion which you talked about previously.
Should we expect $495 million of quarterly accretable yield to NII to be a higher number in future quarters? Yeah it’s going to be higher.
I would describe it as being slightly higher because it’s over a longer period of time 13 years plus.
There is the disproportion of return that comes towards the end of the term of those mortgages but there is no question it will have a slightly positive impact on the net interest margin.
Okay thanks.
And then this question is again kind of specific to the margin.
Looking at your C&amp;I and your real estate mortgage yield you’re sort of prepared for the big drop in the commercial real estate mortgage yield from $462 million to $405 million because I think that was obviously insulated into 2Q from the cash recoveries.
But we also saw a pretty big drop in the yield on the C&amp;I portfolio itself.
Is there something going on in there other than the rate environment and competition was there is some cash recovery in there as well in 2Q? There was a little bit of cash recovery in the second quarter.
And again you also have the impact of the liquidating portfolio kind of running off.
But I wouldn’t – and again if you look back even on a five quarter basis you’ve seen some volatility in that number.
But there is also an impact from some lower loan recoveries that we got in the second quarter.
But I would necessarily look at that decline the level of that decline a trend.
Okay.
Would you feel like that $384 million number on the C&amp;I yield is something that should remain more stable going forward? Gosh I hope so.
There is no question that there is a fair amount of competition out there for assets.
I don’t – but again I don’t think you should look at the $421 million to $384 as a trend that you are going to see on a quarterly basis.
There certainly could be some impact and some future decline but the 384 number feels pretty good.
And then lastly and I’ll stop.
Yeah.
On operating costs probably absorbing clearly to next year costs related to the strong mortgage origination pipeline and volume.
can you maybe frame operating expenses for us over the next few quarters sort of in two pieces: number one what we might see in terms of core expense reductions and – apart from mortgage? And number two what we might see in terms of savings on the mortgage side as the refi volume ultimately comes down? Well our guess as it relates to the best estimate in terms of the refi volume is that that’s going to continue on for a few quarters.
so I don’t expect any sort of decline in expenses until that occurs.
And it’s again I doubt it’s going to be next quarter the quarter after that.
In terms of other expenses clearly and when you look at the mortgage business we have other environmental expenses that are elevated for things like the consent order the servicing settlement and just the fact that well the portfolio has continued to improve we still have higher than normal cost.
And my guess is that those are going to start begin to tail down some time probably in the second half of next year.
and in terms of then just the base operating expenses as John mentioned as I mentioned we’re continuing to look at expense reduction in the company but we want to do it in a way that’s very focused on the efficiency ratio because in this environment while we want to be more efficient we don’t want to give up good revenue opportunities.
John I don’t know.
Yeah.
Let me maybe expand that a bit.
Ed you’re asking the right question.
We still think expenses are too high here.
But we’ve also said we’re not going to be slavish to a number and turn away revenue.
So if we look year-over-year compared to the third quarter of ’11 we’re up now in the expenses of $500 million but our revenue was up $1.6 billion.
So we think that was a good trade.
That being said we can be more efficient.
there are some expenses that we’re getting through compliance and consent and other things that we’ll get better at that will go away.
but even in spite of all of that we still think we have – our operating expenses are too high and we’re focused on that but we want to do it smartly.
And a 57% efficiency ratio we’ve come a long way from the low 60s.
And we’ve picked up 240 basis points in a year and we still think we have more room to go.
And that’s well within our guidelines of 55% to 59%.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Ed.
Your next question will come from the line of Andrew Marquardt with Evercore Partners.
Good morning guys.
Hi.
Good morning.
Just on – just back to the margin commentary can you help us frame just kind of the magnitude of how much pressure we should still expect going forward after the re-stepping down to 366 ranges is it going to be in the 5 to 10 range or how do we think of the output given the number of moving parts still? Yeah I know it can be a little bit frustrating to try to predict any sort of decline in the net interest margin.
And part of that is because on a quarterly basis it can be pretty volatile.
I mean if you look back a year ago in the third quarter our net interest margin was down 17 basis points and then it was up in the fourth quarter and then it was flat for a couple of quarters.
So if you step back and look at it year-over-year it’s being down 18 basis points.
Could we see another 18 to 20 basis points decline in the year sure we could.
Could it be up to 25 you bet.
Could it be 15 right and so that you could see that much change but we could also see another quarter in the next quarter where it’s up.
Again what we focus on right is not managing to the net interest margin and again reason for that is the following.
We could have easily increased our net interest margin by making some bad short-term decisions.
For example we could increase the duration of our investment portfolio.
We could go out and buy a lot of securities that have good short-term yield but have higher credit risk right.
That maybe a good short-term decision in terms of managing to the net interest margin it could be a bad long-term decision in terms of how we’re managing this company for the long-term which again is why we don’t spend the whole lot of time being focused on managing to that margin but again back to the original question “Could we see the same kind of decline year-over-year that we’ve seen this year?” We certainly could.
And the other side think of it the other half of our revenue comes from non-interest income.
And we’ve shown very good growth in that area.
So even though as we gain new households new customers if they are not borrowing or if spreads are lower there we do a lot of other things with these folks.
And we’ve seen good growth in that area.
So overall revenue year-over-year up 8% those are pretty good numbers.
Got it.
And then I hear correctly from the earlier question I think it was Scott who asked that the NII should and can’t improve from here despite the pressure on a linked quarter basis.
Yes yes absolutely.
Sure.
Okay.
And then is the margin pressure is this going to last for year and I guess feels like the industry through next year as well if this current environment remains?  Yeah.
Okay.
And then on expenses the target of 55% to 59% should we think about that being a target that for next year as well? Yeah we should.
Yeah that’s a good question.
We announced the 55% to 59% at Investor Day in May.
And we did at Investor Day because we didn’t want that to be viewed as a range that was for one quarter two quarter.
That’s the range that we believe that we can operate in.
Again there’s going to be some seasonality in our expenses.
Our expenses are generally up a little bit in the first quarter because of compensational related items.
But we think that we can operate within that range and will be using that range for the time being.
Great thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Matt O’Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
Hey Matt.
Hey Matt.
I want to follow-up on something Tim I think you just said about the mortgage related costs relates like legacy assets or the environmental costs as referred to them.
You said something about hopefully those start to tail off back half of next year.
I realize this is probably somewhat of a guesstimate like why is it taking so long for those cost to come down with loan price just raising and some more guidelines on the servicing side? I think what do you think it could be another year before we see a meaningful decline in those areas?  Let me separate them into two groups Matt.
The costs that related to just managing the portion of the problem loan portfolio whether it’s in mortgage or anywhere else within the company and those are continuing to come down.
And so I didn’t mean to imply and apologize if I did that that that we are – we don’t think those are going to come down until next year.
The cost that I was referring to are what I would describe as the environmental cost related to complying with the consent order and also the servicing settlement and those are works in process right now and it’s going to take us through next year to be able to – to work through the servicing settlement and comply with the consent order.
So there is really kind of two different categories Matt.
And for example the new supervisory standards just became effective I think October 1 I mean now we have a front run in that but it takes a while to get those really worked into your system and become efficient on those.
And how much are the cost how much are those the consent and serving delay cost in the third quarter? Yeah what we disclosed in the supplement that is the third-party costs related to the consent order about $100 million a quarter and as it relates to the cost for the servicing settlement we didn’t disclose those but assume there is some addition to that.
Okay.
So I guess the bigger portion though is just the cost of servicing some of the troubled borrowers that part is coming down because I’d think that’s the biggest piece of your… That will continue to come down as the portfolio continues to improve which is what we’ve been seeing.
Okay.
And then just separately on the mortgage side how elevated are the production related expenses just like in an absolute dollar what are those costs this quarter? Now I’m not going to disclose that because then everybody know exactly what our margins are and that’s a important from a competitive standpoint.
Is there anything you can size around like year-over-year expenses are up X and X% of that is due to higher mortgage or anyway to frame that a little bit for us? No.
Okay.
That it – it takes more time now to underwrite a loan I mean there is more expense on that but we are working through those things.
I’m going to guess it’s at a very high level like it seems like there’s some puts and takes on the production related expenses a lot more legwork needs to be done to get loans approved whether it’s refi or purchase yet I think the headcount adds been a lot less for the industry and technology is better.
So it’s just hard to put it all together.
I mean it seems like there is some elevation on expenses but maybe no there is much to say few years ago when hiring’s were more meaningful.
Well Matt I think it’s a really fair question and in fairness state the entire industry or anybody that’s in the mortgage business today there is a lot of change that’s going on.
And so I think it’s hard to kind of put a hard dollar cost to this has really been what the impact to the change because it’s still a work in process I’d have to step back and just again focus on the overall efficiency ratio for the company which has continued to improve over this last year as John said by about 2.5% and even in the last quarter by over 100 basis points.
Okay.
But we are adding people to deal with volumes and to get the throughput.
You don’t disclose the headcount in the mortgage company do you? Not separately no.
Excellent.
All right.
Thank you.
Thanks Matt.
Your next question will come from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Thanks guys.
Good morning.
Just one more you kind of all encompassing question on expenses.
So understanding the efficiency ratio points that you make at the top of the company and the progression that's been made with total expenses continuing to come down through the last couple of quarters can you give us a framework of how to just think about the overall expense base just going ahead because I would think you still have some annualization of the cost savings programs you’ve got the environmental costs that we just that Matt just asked about.
And then there is this unanswerable question right now about how much is in the mortgage business but so can you just help us frame how are you going to be thinking about just the overall cost base from a dollar's perspective as we think about 2013 over 2012 just from an operating leverage perspective? Yeah well I think you made an important point there at the end.
And that is we're looking at operating leverage and we're looking at efficiency ratio.
And so we are not focused on saying look here is the hard dollar reduction that we want to see year-over-year.
What we want to see is we want to see sequential improvement in our efficiency ratio.
Now again the first quarter in every year is going to be a little bit different but the way that we are measuring our people who are measuring the businesses is to see that sequential improvement in the efficiency ratio.
So we don't have a specific dollar target for next year but we want to improve the efficiency ratio so we can get down to stay in the middle to get down to the lower end of the range that we set.
And I would also say that we want to make sure that for businesses like mortgage that have volume differences one year could be much higher when volumes do have or the business contracts we are able to adjust expenses in a similar way that's extremely important in that business.
Inc.</strong>  So I guess the broad takeaway is that next year you would still see the ability to improve the efficiency ratio from where it currently stands?  Yeah again let me what we are looking for the way that we measure our businesses internally is look for sequential improvement in operating leverage in every business regardless of what the business is.
Absolutely.
Right.
So that it takes into consideration not only the revenue opportunities that the businesses are seeing and you’ve seen that in our results this quarter across the broad in many businesses but also asking them to become more efficient at the same time.
Inc.</strong>  Okay got.
And my second question is just about the trust and investment fees business obviously had good sequential improvement.
I was just wondering if you could provide a little color about the momentum you’re seeing there and also obviously December was a tough environment on the volumes base side of things but there were still growth in the business.
So we’re seeing an incremental bit of momentum there in the core business and just any changes you’re seeing in terms of customer activity and the outlook for growth in that part of the company? I think a couple of things one we did see and we are continuing to see some momentum there.
I think David Carroll at our Investor Day did a terrific job in kind of walking through the opportunities that we see in that business in his business and then in our investment banking business John Stumpf did a nice job kind of walking you through that at Investor Day so we’re seeing some good momentum.
And I think the other thing that’s really important when you think about the trusts and investment fees is that the mix is also improving so that we’re seeing more of that the mix coming from advisory fees and asset management fees as opposed to just transactional activity.
So we’re optimistic that we can continue to grow not only within those businesses but also that line item.
And part of the secret sauce there is David and his team’s ability to work across businesses within the company.
So he worked very closely with the community banking side led by Carrie Tolstedt very closely with Dave Hoyt in the wholesale side.
So there’s lots of work together because many of our customers who call us their bank keep their wealth some place else.
So there is – we have huge opportunity in this business.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Your next question will come from the line of Paul Miller with FBR.
Very much and I hate to go back to the NIM but I want to talk a little bit about the securities portfolio.
It did increase a little bit.
But what type of – and you talked about this in the opening remarks about that some of the NIM pressure is coming from the securities portfolio but what type of the CPR rates were you’re seeing I know you had some really high yielding stuff that is probably prepaying very fast? Yeah.
You know what Paul it’s a fair question.
I don’t have the CPR rates on an individual security basis handy.
we can get back to you with that.
Okay.
And then the other question is – and then the subhead can you at least tell us where it’s coming on is it coming on in the 15 once that new stuff coming on board? Well there is no question that we saw some increase in the CPR levels in some of the newer securities.
but again we’ll get back to you with some more detail.
What yield are you buying these securities on? What yield I’m sorry I’m sorry.
Yeah yeah.
Open up it’s whatever the yield is today in the market.
I think that the more important point is that when we saw rates declined significantly and then we saw the demand for the underlying securities really increased so that you’re looking at buying these at a significant premium.
That’s the point at which we said you know what this just doesn’t feel very good to us in terms of making a long-term decision and where we focused on keeping more of the conforming mortgages.
Okay.
and one real quick question what is – you might release you might have it somewhere but I can’t see it.
What is your annualized servicing fee? Our annualized servicing fee? On mortgage? Yeah.
No on the MS for your servicing portfolio I’m sorry guys.
You mean the valuation...
63 basis points.
You mean the valuation? That’s your capitalized cost of servicing.
Your annualized servicing fee? 25 bps.
25 basis points.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
Yeah.
Your next question will come from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Hey Mike.
Hi my question is on mortgages past present and future.
so let’s start with the mortgages past I mean the decision to retain the mortgages on the balance sheet do you still have the option to sell those retained mortgages because you’re passing up some revenues today it’s tying up more capital and there is a tradeoff there isn’t there? Sure.
There is.
Sure.
And we think it’s a good tradeoff to make today but holding these mortgages today doesn’t preclude our ability to sell them in the future.
So you could sell them today or in a month or in three months you think? Well I don’t think we could sell them tomorrow but we could sell them in the future certainly.
You have to securitize them and… Okay.
You got to get him wrapped and – but yeah we could do that.
And then as far as the mortgages today you said the applications were down from the second quarter to the third quarter and you might have thought with QE3 the application volume would have increased.
So what has the application volume down from the end of the third quarter until today? Let me pause your mortgage present for a minute.
The pipeline at the end of the third quarter was down slightly from the end of the second quarter by I think $5 billion or $6 billion is still very high.
Our mortgage volume in the third quarter was higher than in the second quarter and may be just gets into a little bit of the mortgage future.
What we’re seeing so far this quarter is that volume is up.
And remember we get out of the wholesale business from the third quarter.
All right.
So volume is up so far this quarter versus the second quarter especially it would be good to the fourth quarter? I hope if it continues.
Okay.
But the more general question for the future you said this should last maybe a few more quarters as far as the mortgage boom in terms of the revenues but then it falls off.
So my question is could you offset that falloff entirely through actions at the mortgage company or would that be where the diversified model comes into play and you would expect other business lines to pick the slack?  Well there is a lot of variables in the question you just asked.
What’s the economy going to look like where our interest rate is going to be? But I think what you’ve seen this quarter and not only what you’ve seen this quarter but what you’ve seen for the last few quarters and the last year is that because we’ve got a diversified model you’re seeing growth in a number of businesses.
I can’t promise you that in the quarter that we see a decline in the mortgage business that everyone of those business is going to be able to pickup the complete slack.
I hope it does that’s what we’ve seen historically when we’ve gone through these peaks and valleys in the mortgage business.
But again that’s the benefit of the model that we’ve got and that we’ve got other levers to pull there is other horses that are pulling the stagecoach.
And Mike another thing you need to think about is 75% of our mortgage volume this past quarter was refinanced and 25% was purchase money.
That’s still a very low overall purchase money market.
As we see real estate continue to improve as refis ebb we might see the purchase volume pick up.
So that’s a natural offset.
Furthermore as the purchasing volume or if rate rise and those things slowdown then the servicing asset peoples were valuable.
So we have all those things going on besides the diversified model.
But at the end of the day even with the improving in the servicing asset even with more purchase volume even with the expense cut in the mortgage unit chances are you’d still have to rely on some as you would say horses outside the mortgage area.
Yeah absolutely.
That’s the exciting part.
We free them all.
Yeah.
They are all pulling.
Just last follow-up because this is the main question I think.
How you manage to hand off from the mortgage boom to the time you cut the expenses? How do you know when to start cutting those expenses? What signs are you looking at? Well the mortgage business as you can imagine this is not the first – we’ve in this a long time we have terrific leaders there.
And they see volumes on a – not hourly but at daily basis and they have been very good at dialing up and dialing down to adjust to volumes.
Now there is truly a fixed component there but we’ve done this.
This is not the first up or down we’ve seen in this business.
We’ve seen many of those.
But isn’t this time different I mean if we had QE4 that could change your whole analysis right? Isn’t it… Well you might get exactly right.
We had – we didn’t know QE3 was coming and now we’re adding people.
And if QE3 lasts if the volumes last for 12 months versus six months we will make adjustments up or down based on that.
Are you able to say how many people you’ve added? I don’t think – no we’d not say that but we’re adding people.
Okay.
All right thanks a lot.
Thanks Mike.
Your next question will come from the line of Greg Ketron with UBS.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just a variation of all the mortgage questions that you’ve answered this morning.
Kind of looking at the 2013 the MBA forecast calls for volumes to be off you know maybe 20% to a size of 30% I know that MBA forecast is about as accurate as a weather forecast.
But if you look at that type of scenario are there things that you can do maybe on the pricing side or products side and increase market share in light of the scenario that would have mortgage production coming down that much? Well I mean yeah we can – you could always lower your prices and take up share but I don’t know necessarily think that’s a good – a good decision always going to be a good decision from a profit standpoint.
And it’s a very competitive market out there we don’t run the business based upon on share we run the business based upon profitability.
Our first call continues to be focused on our retail origination network and then also secondly our corresponding network.
As you said the MBA forecast it could be right it could be wrong.
I think everybody has been surprised that how long this refinance boom has lasted as I said we think it’s going to last for a few more quarters.
And again at some point it’s going to slowdown.
As John said there might be a mix change we hope there will be and there will be more purchase money mortgages.
But again the important thing is we’ve been through this before.
This isn’t something that the folks in our mortgage business or the management team at this company hasn’t seen before in terms of cyclicality in the mortgage business and we will adjust to it.
Okay.
Right.
And then in terms of the – I’m sorry.
I would just add remember on our mortgage business half of our business is through correspondence.
So the adjustment we are going to make is really on a 16% share or something.
Okay.
Great.
And in terms of what you are seeing maybe so far this quarter we know if you look at the primary to secondary mortgage spread that widened out quite a bit so especially after QE3 was announced.
Is there – your sense that you are going to continue to see mortgage rates work their way down and maybe some pressure on that spread in the fourth quarter? I don’t know that answer to that.
I mean clearly the spreads are attractive today the costs are up too and the GC was up also.
We are hopeful that the margins will continue to be at their present level but it’s competitive out there.
And I think the one thing we know from history in the mortgage business is that when you are at a high level of margin there generally tends to be more pressure down than up.
And again it’s competitive but it’s a very attractive business for us to be in and we’re really pleased that we are originating one of every three mortgages that’s done in the country.
And it’s also a very good deal for consumers I mean consumers are getting bargained these days if you look at the rates on the street.
This is very – and this is probably the best time ever to buy a house.
Most affordable.
Great.
Well thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
A question on the nonperformers it’s just another way of getting at the expense question because obviously you’ve got carrying cost associated with the nonaccrual and foreclosed assets and I’m just wondering about how much more rapidly we could expect you would try to bring this balance down.
We’ve had a change in the short sale program from the FHFA which I would expect would be one opportunity to accelerate this shrinkage but maybe I’m wrong there? Maybe if you could give us some color on what your thoughts are? Sure Betsy I think if you look at kind of that five quarter chart that we had in the supplement.
You go back to the third quarter of last year our total non-performing assets were about I’m going to round you about $27 billion.
The improvement over the last year has been pretty significant with the exception that we’ve had the OCC guidance in the first quarter and then in this quarter that raised it.
So what we’re seeing is $1 billion plus decline in NPAs more or less on a quarterly basis absent that guidance and our expectation is that it’s reasonable to assume that that can continue.
But could you do anything to accelerate that? We could and we look at that all the time in terms of what’s the best economic return for the company not necessarily driven by ratios.
but yeah I mean and so not only do we look at working out loans on a loan-by-loan basis but also in the past quarters we’ve sold our packages of non-performing assets.
and we’ll continue to look at that and if the economics are there and if the economics get better than we could certainly accelerate that.
Yeah Tim is right about that.
It’s based on economics; I mean we don’t feel there is any reason to do something that’s uneconomic.
if that’s economic that’d be terrific.
The short sale rule change anything in terms of helping you accelerate this or not really?  Not really.
Not really because most short sales never get to the balance sheet right.
I mean if it’s many of those are done on behalf of our investors and it’s so that will spend much time if at anything in your NPA area.
Great okay thanks.
Your next question will come from the line of Chris Mutascio with [Credit Suisse].
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Good morning John and Tim.
how are you? Hey Chris how are you doing? I’m fine.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I am doing well.
I promise I won’t ask you the margin or mortgage question.
I guess we’re pretty good at that.
Thanks again.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> You can do a debate I think given all the (inaudible).
Looking at your cash and your Fed funds sold at the end of period you’re almost up to $120 billion pretty darn close to 9% of your total assets.
I understand you’d mentioned you’re more prudent in terms of reinvestment right now given where rates are? My question is though it looks like you’re holding cash a bit though are there any opportunities out there for a typical the type of loan pool purchases you’ve made in the past.
I think they kind of slow of late are you seeing any type of ramp up in those opportunities out there? Yeah.
you’re correct I mean we didn’t have a medium-size or large acquisition we did this quarter like we’ve had over the last few quarters.
I wouldn’t necessarily conclude that that’s a trend that we won’t continue to see those.
We still have a pretty robust pipeline of opportunities out there.
And so we’re not necessarily holding cash to make sure that we’ve got the ability to do it because even if we had $20 billion or $30 billion less the cash we would be more than liquid enough to be able to accomplish an acquisition.
We’re continued to be very focused on looking at good acquisition opportunities.
we’re very pleased with what we’ve been able to accomplish in the last year.
And we’re hopeful to see that we’ll continue to see those types of opportunities but the pipeline is still there.
Yeah.
and I would say that the level is more because we can’t – the opportunities are not if we could find great asset that’d be great.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> All right.
We didn’t pick that number per se.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> All right.
Thank you very much.
Have a great weekend guys.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
LLC</strong> Good morning.
Good morning Marty.
LLC</strong> but a little different twist.
If you’re looking at the variable income more employment figure out is that you met the five quarters over this period of time you end up with a negative five basis points.
So in general you got to start at some point and I’m just curious do you say that would you think that the resolutions are lower than normal at normal kind of where we’re yet going forward on that particular item? Marty for this quarter the resolutions were a little bit were clearly lower than what we’ve seen in the last four or five six quarters.
LLC</strong>  So because I was looking at last quarter there obviously elevated but if you look back over time that would more than compensated with a little drop-off that you had in this quarter? That’s correct.
LLC</strong> Okay.
and then when you look at mortgage one of the things that’s interesting to me is as you look at the roll-off of the income that you’re getting there one of the things that helps cushion that blow is in periods when you have higher revenue potential you find ways to kind of offset that.
So in other words if you look at holding the mortgages that would have lowered your revenues by like you said a little bit more than $200 million.
In this quarter you adjusted your servicing cost and you incorporated a higher cost going forward that lowered the number by $482 million.
So if you look at those two adjustments that we’re kind of incorporated in the $2.8 billion there was a potential to earn $3.5 billion which is about 20% higher 20% to 25% higher than what you actually earn.
So part of being able to cushion the future run-off and that you just kind of shave some of the peak off Well you’re correct Marty particularly as it relates to the decision to hold the conforming production and keeping on balance sheet and to have that income flow over a longer period of time during the term of the mortgages as opposed to recognize its gain on sale.
So yeah I mean there’s no question that when you look at the mortgage business today is very strong.
All of it’s not flowing to the bottom line because of the couple of things that happened in the sense of the servicing costs and holding the mortgages.
So you could have recognized if every quarter you’re not going to have servicing cost fee we have adjusted higher that’s not something you normally do.
I certainly hope I hope that that’s correct Marty.
But we did this quarter we thought it was prudent to do it.
But I hope we don’t have a repeat of that in the next few quarters.
And then just kind of lastly putting all that together down to if you think of the decision you made to hold more mortgages of the decision to hold more liquidity you are going through a process of If you look at the liquidity when interest rates eventually begin to rise which is when refi come down you can deploy that at a much more advantageous time and create some positive there.
So just on those two decisions that you tangibly made there was about $0.04 of earnings in this quarter that helps future earnings down the road.
Marty that’s a great summation of how we think about the company over the long-term.
We’ve got to make good long-term decisions everyday as opposed to let’s make a good short-term decision that doesn’t have a good long-term benefit.
And so that’s exactly how we think about managing this company.
LLC</strong> And my past history is the way that this works the best is managing the quarters in which you have extra earnings for future investing into the future versus really taking the weaker quarters and trying to clock them off.
You make the most traction in creating future earning streams taking those peaks and putting them out into future quarters.
So I appreciate it.
Thanks.
Thank you Marty.
Your final question will come from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
My question was actually asked about 12 different ways so we can call it a day.
Thanks.
All right.
Thanks Chris.
I appreciate it.
Well thanks everybody for joining us and your interest and the way you follow our company.
We’ll see you at the end of the fourth quarter.
Thank you very much.
Bye bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you all for participating.
And you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Rowe you may begin your conference.
Thank you Regina and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf; and our CFO Tim Sloan will review fourth quarter and full year results and answer your questions.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that our fourth quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at wellsfargo.com.
I’d also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today’s call that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings; including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.
Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can also be found in our SEC filings in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website.
I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf.
Thank you Jim.
Happy new year everyone and thanks for joining us today.
We’re excited to share our strong results for the quarter and for the year.
We just completed our 12th consecutive quarter of EPS growth with record quarterly earnings in the fourth quarter of $5.1 billion 24% from a year ago.
These strong quarterly results are just part of an outstanding year of achievement for Wells Fargo.
Let me start by highlighting all that was accomplished during 2012.
We earned a record $18.9 billion in 2012 up 19% from 2011 and we also grew earnings per share by 19%.
We generated 6% revenue growth and pre-tax pre-provision increased by 13%.
We improved our efficiency ratio by 250 basis points to 58.5% for the year.
We grew total loans by $30 billion up 4% while reducing our liquidating portfolio by $18 billion.
Our liquidating portfolio is now half the size it was four years ago at the time of the Wachovia merger.
We now have over $1 trillion of deposits up 9% from a year ago.
Credit quality continued to improve but charge-offs is down $2.3 billion.
We achieved a record retail banking cross-sell of over six products for household.
We grew return on assets by 16 basis points and increased return on equity by 102 basis points.
We increased capital levels growing our estimated tier 1 common equity under Basel III to 8.18%.
We increased our dividend by 83% and repurchased approximately 120 million shares of common stock.
In addition to these financial metrics we also continued to grow organically and through acquisition purchasing loan portfolios and several businesses which not only brought new customers to Wells Fargo but allowed us to better meet the financial needs of all of our customers.
The housing market began a steady rebound during 2012 while many measures of activity and prices remained low by historical standards and a complete recovery will still take some time.
There is no doubt that a corner was turned which is a real positive for our economy and for Wells Fargo.
We originated $524 billion in residential mortgages in 2012 helping over 2 million homeowners refinance or purchase a new home.
Our industry our regulators and our elected officials made progress this past year in helping to restore some stability to the housing market.
Early in the year we finalized an agreement with the AGs and federal agencies regarding mortgage servicing foreclosure and origination issues.
We also reached the settlement with the Department of Justice regarding origination practices and as we just announced we reached the settlement associated with Independent Foreclosure Reviews which will end the large quarterly expenses associated with the Consent Order.
And regarding the draft the qualified mortgage definition that was just published yesterday we are still reviewing the details.
But so far it looks like the CFPB issued a rule that should benefit consumers across America by providing strong protection while also ensuring that credit is available.
By putting these issues behind us we can focus more of our resources on serving our customers and creating long-term franchise value.
We generate strong results in 2012 even with regulatory changes and an uncertain economic and political environment.
As we start the New Year we believe we will benefit from some signs of growth that we are seeing in the economy jobs are being created and home prices are increasing.
However there is still a lot of work that needs to be done.
The last minute agreement that averted the fiscal cliff was a good step but it did not fix our country’s long-term problems.
We need to work on both sides of the equation spending reductions and revenue increases.
We need to increase clarity certainty and confidence and we can do this if the private and public sectors work together with the unified focus on strengthening our nation’s financial and economic future uncertainty is the enemy of business and we simply cannot afford that today.
We know our customers especially in the small and middle market segments needs certainty and clarity.
They have cash and the desire to grow.
We need confidence so they can feel encourage to invest and hire again.
With all that we accomplished last year I believe Wells Fargo has never been better positioned and I’m very optimistic about the year ahead.
Wells Fargo is over 160 years old and we continue to manage our company for the long-term.
The vision that has guided us for decades meeting our customer’s financial needs will continue to drive our growth in the year ahead.
Thank you again for joining us today.
And now Tim Sloan our Chief Financial Officer will provide more details on our financial results.
Tim? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
My remarks will follow the presentation included in the first half of the quarterly supplement starting on page two and then John and I will take your questions.
As John mentioned Wells Fargo had a very strong quarter with record earnings of $5.1 billion up 24% from year ago.
Earnings per share were a record $0.91 up 25% from the fourth quarter of last year.
We’ve now achieved 12 consecutive quarters of earnings per share growth and the seven consecutive quarters of record EPS.
Total revenue of $21.9 billion was up 7% from year ago.
We grew revenue on a year-over-year basis every quarter in 2012.
We also generated positive operating leverage.
Pre-tax pre-provision profit increased 12% from year ago and we continue to have strong credit performance.
We generated strong deposit in loan growth.
Our ROA was 1.46% up 21 basis points from year ago and our ROE was 13.35% up 138 basis points from year ago.
Our capital levels remained strong with our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under Basel III growing to 8.18%.
As you can see on page three our fourth quarter results build on the strong performance we achieved throughout the year.
As John highlighted and as the charts on this slide demonstrate we had an outstanding year of growth across a variety of measures.
Revenues grew by 6%.
Net income grew by 19%.
We had solid growth in loans and strong deposit growth.
Our ROA was 1.41% for the year and ROE was 12.95%.
We are in a much better position today than we were year ago and we look forward to taking advantage of all of the opportunities ahead of us.
Our continued strong quarterly and annual performance reflected the benefit of our customer focused business model and our diversified sources of growth.
The combination of our scale and our level of diversification is a significant advantage for our company.
Before I review the drivers of our results this quarter let me spend some time discussing some noteworthy items that impacted our results as highlighted on slide five.
Taken together these items had little impact on our bottom-line but they did cause some unevenness in some of our line items.
Our gains on equity investments this quarter totaled $715 million.
Our private equity business has been a core part of Wells Fargo for a long time and by its very nature results in this business can vary.
The results in the fourth quarter were $393 million higher than the previous 7 quarter average reflecting strength in our private equity business including the gain on the sale of Becker Underwood.
The $393 million of above average equity gains equates to $0.05 of EPS.
Our total operating losses this quarter reflected $644 million of incremental accrual to fully reserve for our costs associated with the independent foreclosure review settlement that was announced earlier this week and additional remediation related costs.
This accrual reduced EPS by $0.09.
We contributed $250 million to the Wells Fargo Foundation reducing EPS by $0.03 continuing our commitment of giving back to the communities that we serve.
Finally our income tax expense in the quarter included a $332 million benefit associated with the realization for tax purposes of a previously written down Wachovia life insurance investment which reduced our fourth quarter effective tax rate to 27.4%.
This benefited EPS by $0.06 a share.
Let me briefly highlight the impact of the independent foreclosure review settlement.
Our portion of the cash settlement was $766 million and as I just mentioned our operating losses this quarter reflected $644 million to fully reserve for the settlement and additional remediation related costs.
We also committed to an additional $1.2 billion for foreclosure prevention actions which will not result in any additional charges since it is covered through our existing allowance and PCI non-accretable difference.
We are pleased to have the high cost of complying with the consent order behind us which when taking into account both the internal and external costs resulted in approximately $125 million in quarterly expenses in 2012.
Let me comment on some of our key drivers this quarter which I’ll discuss in more detail later in my remarks.
Our balance sheet growth accelerated in the fourth quarter with solid growth in loans and continued strong deposit growth.
Our short-term investments in Fed fund sold balances increased by $36.9 billion and we grew our AFS portfolio by $5.8 billion including agency MBS purchasers that occurred late in the quarter as rates rose and yields became more attractive.
Our credit quality also continued to improve in the fourth quarter as it did throughout 2012.
Turning to the income statement on page eight we generated robust revenue in the fourth quarter reflecting strong non-interest income growth across our businesses and stable net interest income.
The increase in non-interest expense was entirely driven by the higher operating losses in the foundation contribution that I highlighted earlier.
Let me now cover our business drivers in more detail.
As shown on page 9 period end loans were up $30 billion from the fourth quarter of 2011 and up $17 billion from the third-quarter of this year.
This is the largest linked quarter increase over the past four years.
Commercial loans grew $8.7 billion in the quarter.
This growth reflected strong activity in a number of businesses middle market lending commercial real estate asset-backed finance and corporate banking.
Consumer loans increased by $8.3 billion with growth in first mortgage auto credit card and private student lending.
This growth benefited from the retention of $9.7 billion of new conforming fixed-rate production similar to last quarter.
With the recent increase in rates providing better investment opportunities we currently do not plan to retain any -- retain additional first-quarter production.
We do expect to hold an additional $2 billion to $3 billion of our fourth quarter originations that we’ll fund this month.
This demonstrates the flexibility of our diversified model.
Our liquidating portfolio continued to shrink declining $17.8 billion from a year ago and down $4.1 billion in the fourth quarter.
We continue to have strong deposit growth in the fourth quarter with average deposits up $64 billion from a year ago and up $29.6 billion from the third quarter with growth across our franchise.
We also continue to lower our deposit costs with average deposit cost down -- of 16 basis points in the fourth quarter down two basis points from the third quarter and down six basis points from a year ago.
Our ability to continue to grow deposits while reducing costs has been a real strength of our franchise.
While this strong deposit growth continued to put pressure on our margin it is important to note that given most of this growth was a non-interest bearing deposits this deposit growth has been essentially neutral to our net interest income.
The increased deposits provide us with many opportunities to meet other financial needs of our deposit customers and if the loan demand we have in the fourth quarter continues we can better redeploy our quarter strong deposit growth to foreign loan growth.
As shown on page 11 tax equivalent net interest income was essentially flat from the third quarter with 3% growth in average earning assets.
The 10-basis point linked quarter decline in the net interest margin was driven by three primary factors.
First our strong deposit growth caused cash and short-term investments to increase reducing the margin by eight basis points.
Second five basis points of the margin pressure was driven by the ongoing repricing of the balance sheet in the current low rate environment and the fact that we were cautious in our reinvestment activity.
However as rates rose late in the fourth quarter we did purchase approximately $5 billion of agency mortgage-backed securities and as rates rose again last week we purchased another $5 billion of agency MBS.
These declines were partially offset by the benefit of three basis points of higher variable income.
As you’ve heard me say frequently our focus is on growing net interest income over time.
The chart at the bottom of this page shows that even though the net interest margin declined 18 basis points in 2012 compared with 2011 we were able to grow net interest income by $472 million.
Growing our net interest income remains our focus and we believe we can continue to generate growth even in this low-rate environment.
Non-interest income increased 16% from a year ago and was up $754 million or 7% from the third quarter.
This growth was broad-based and included strong equity gains as I highlighted earlier but also reflected strong business momentum across the company with deposit service charges up 3% due to product pricing changes trust and investment fees were up 8% primarily due to stronger investment banking and retail brokerage asset-based fees and other fees were up 9% on higher investment banking advisory activity.
Mortgage banking revenue increased $261 million or 9% from the third quarter with higher servicing and origination fees.
Net servicing income was up $53 million reflecting higher net MSR head results which were partially offset by higher unreimbursed foreclosure costs.
Mortgage gain on sale revenue was up $208 million from the third quarter despite approximately $340 million in forgone revenue from retaining $9.7 billion of conforming mortgage loans which I’d mentioned earlier.
The revenue impact was higher this quarter than last quarter as margins widened overall and more of our retained production came from the retail channel which is a wider margin business.
Third quarter results included a $379 million provision for mortgage repurchase losses which was $83 million lower than the third quarter.
Mortgage originations were $125 billion in the fourth quarter down $14 billion from the third quarter reflecting normal seasonality and the elimination of our wholesale channel which originated $8 billion of loans in the third quarter.
12% of our origination volume this quarter was from HARP.
The unclosed mortgage pipeline at quarter end was $81 billion up 13% from a year ago and we would expect to benefit from seasonally stronger applications in the first quarter.
Turning to expenses on page 13 fourth quarter expenses increased $784 million from the third quarter due to the higher operating losses from the independent foreclosure review settlement and the $250 million foundation contribution that I mentioned earlier on the call.
Even with these items our expense efficiency ratio of 58.8% was within our targeted range of 55% to 59% and if you adjust for our noteworthy revenue and expense items this quarter our ratio was actually at the lower end of this range.
However we believe expenses will remain elevated in the first quarter due to seasonally higher personnel expenses as we have every year.
Our efficiency ratio in the fourth quarter was 190 basis points lower than a year ago.
While we have made progress in improving our efficiency we believe our expenses are still too high and we will continue to focus on opportunities to reduce expenses that do not impact our ability to grow revenue.
For example since 2008 we reduced the size of our overall real estate occupancy portfolio by over 16 million square feet net of growth.
Over 4.5 million square feet of this reduction occurred in 2012.
We continue to see opportunities to reposition our real estate holdings in the next few years and we are experiencing more than 20% higher efficiency in the construction of all new office projects using improved design and build-out standards.
When looking at our results it’s also important to consider that some of our costs are elevated because of the current environment.
We highlight some of these costs on slide 14.
They totaled approximately $790 million in the fourth quarter alone.
The OCC consent order added approximately $125 million of expenses in the fourth quarter and roughly $500 million of total expenses during 2012.
The settlement that was reached earlier this week with our regulators will allow us to significantly reduce both the external and internal costs in the first quarter and fully eliminate these costs by the second-quarter.
In the fourth quarter we had $221 million of foreclosed asset expense which totaled $1.1 billion for the full year.
The improvement in the housing market will reduce these expenses over time.
We also have higher costs that reduced mortgage banking revenue.
We added $313 million in the fourth quarter and $1.7 billion during 2012 to our repurchase reserve not related to current originations.
Servicing fees were reduced by $127 million in the fourth quarter and $677 million during 2012 to reflect higher cost of service and unreimbursed foreclosure costs as foreclosure timelines continue to extend.
In addition we had a total of $2.2 billion of operating losses in 2012 almost $1 billion higher than the amount we had in 2011 as we resolved many significant matters related to our mortgage business.
Turning to our segment results starting on page 15 community banking earned $2.9 billion in the fourth quarter up 14% from a year ago and up 5% from the third quarter.
Retail banking achieved a record cross-sell of 6.05 products per household up from 5.93 a year ago.
Our credit card business continues to grow with credit card balances up 4% linked quarter to a record $24.6 million with a record $12.6 billion of purchase dollar volume in the fourth quarter.
This growth reflects seasonal holiday spending and strong account growth.
New consumer credit card accounts grew 11% from fourth quarter of 2011 with household penetration increasing to 33% up from 29% a year ago.
We remain focused on meeting the needs of our small business customers with business checking accounts up 3.7% from a year ago and we extended $16 billion of net new loan commitments to small businesses across the U.S.
in 2012 up over 30% from year ago.
Wholesale Banking earned record net income of $2 billion in the fourth quarter up 24% from a year ago and up 2% from the third quarter.
Wholesale Banking continued to have solid deposit growth and as I mentioned earlier they also had strong loan growth that was broadly diversified and gained momentum late in the quarter with period-end balances increasing $8 billion or 3% from the third quarter.
Wholesale Banking has generated nine consecutive quarters of loan growth.
In addition to meeting the financing needs of our commercial customers we continue to better serve all of their financial needs is reflected in Wholesale Banking cross-sell growing to 6.8 products up from 6.5 products a year ago.
We’ve seen better penetration across our diversified product line including strong growth in investment banking with investment banking fees from commercial and corporate banking customers up 30% in 2012 versus 2011 and strong sales of our industry-leading treasury management products including -- increasing treasury management revenue by 13% in the fourth quarter compared to a year ago.
Additionally commercial credit card purchase volume increased 25% in the fourth quarter from a year ago reflecting strong account growth and increase usage among existing customers.
Wealth Brokerage and Retirement earned a record $351 million up 4% from the third quarter and up 13% from a year ago.
The year-over-year growth was especially strong considering that fourth quarter 2011 included $153 million gain on the sale of H.D.
Vest.
Earnings continued to benefit from higher asset-based fees with WBR client assets up 7% from a year ago including strong growth in average core deposits up 6% and retail brokerage managed account assets up $50 billion or 20% driven by strong net flows and market performance.
In addition WBR continue to effectively partner with retail banking to meet all the financial needs of our customers increasing cross-sell to 10.27 products per household up from 10.05 a year ago.
Turning to credit quality on page 18 trends continue to show improvement with fourth quarter net charge-offs of 1.05% of average loans.
Net charge-offs were impacted by the completion of the implementation of the regulatory guidance issued by the OCC at the end of the third quarter which increased our net charge-offs by $321 million in the fourth quarter.
Excluding this impact net charge-offs were 89 basis points of average loans 47 basis points lower than a year ago.
Reflecting continued improved credit performance and also incorporating estimated losses attributable to Hurricane Sandy.
We released $250 million in loan loss reserves in the fourth quarter.
Absent significant deterioration in the economy we continue to expect future reserve releases in 2013 but a lower level than 2012.
Nonperforming assets decreased $744 million from the third quarter and were down $1.5 billion from a year ago.
Loans 90 days or more past due decreased $57 million from the third quarter and were down $613 million from a year ago.
Early stage consumer loan delinquency balances and rates also declined from the third quarter a year ago.
Our servicing portfolio continued to perform better than the industry with our delinquency and foreclosure rate over 400 basis points lower than the industry average excluding Wells Fargo based on the most recent publicly available data.
Our total delinquency and foreclosure rate was 7.04% in the fourth quarter down from 7.96% a year ago.
We added $379 million to our repurchase reserve this quarter down $83 million from the third quarter.
Our repurchase reserve balance increased to $2.2 billion up 9% from third quarter.
Our repurchase reserve incorporates current demand levels considers all vintages and anticipates probable future expected demands.
The unpaid principal balance of outstanding repurchase demands were down 3% from third quarter reflecting a lower level of new demands from both the GSEs and private investors.
As shown on page 21 our capital levels continue to increase with our Tier 1 common equity ratio growing to 10.12% up 66 basis points from a year ago and up 20 basis points from the third quarter.
Our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under Basel III capital proposals increased to 8.18% in the fourth quarter.
We purchased 42 million shares in the fourth quarter and entered into a forward repurchase transaction for an estimated 5.9 million shares that is expected to settle in first quarter.
During 2012 we purchase a total of approximately 120 million shares at an average price of $32.35.
We remain committed to returning to more capital to our shareholders.
Our 2013 capital plan that we submitted to our regulators last week requests an increase in capital distribution to shareholders as compared to our 2012.
But remember our request is subject to Fed review and non-objection.
As I’ve highlighted 2012 was an outstanding year for Wells Fargo.
We generated growth throughout our businesses we reduced risk including lower credit losses and we increased our returns.
However we’re even more optimistic about all the opportunities that we have in 2013 to continue to benefit from our business momentum and slowly improving economy.
We remain focused on reducing expenses and we believe we have further opportunities to improve our efficiency ratio and we should benefit from reduced environmental costs in 2013.
We are optimistic that loan growth can’t continue in 2013 and we believe we will be able to grow net interest income even if rates remain low.
We have opportunities throughout our consumer and commercial businesses to continue to grow market share and increase cross sell.
And now I’ll open up the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Tim I was wondering on the share count.
In 2012 the share count was flat despite about 4 billion of share repurchases.
Just kind of wondering what’s the strategy with regard to share count.
Is it to just offset use buyback to offset employee issuance or to really steadily reduce the net shares outstanding? Well you’re absolutely right John.
This last year in terms of our total purchases that’s what we’re able to accomplish to keep shares about flat.
We’re hopeful that over time as we continue to return more capital to shareholders that we will have the ability to increase the amount of shares that we can repurchase.
But that’s subject to the capital plan that we just submitted.
So over the long-term we would like to do better than what we did this year.
Okay.
And in terms of the gross issuance was there anything unusually high by your issuance this year or was 2012 kind of normal year for employee issuance? I would say it’s -- it was a relatively normal year.
As you know having our team members received some of their compensation based upon on the shares is really important to make sure that the team members and shareholders are very aligned in terms of the long-term growth of the company.
And then on expenses should the look-back expenses start to come out immediately beginning in the first-quarter those are gone? I wouldn’t assume that they would be completely gone in the first quarter.
There’s going to be some clean up this month and maybe trailing into next.
They will clearly come down materially I don’t know what the exact number is going to be.
They will be completely out of the run rate in the second quarter.
And on the mortgage side as originations come down if that happens in 2013 how quickly can the mortgage expenses come out? We’ve got some good track record in doing that and our mortgage folks have seen cycles before.
You saw what we were able to accomplish in 2011 in the second quarter and then also in 2010.
There is a bit of a lag so I would say there’s about 60 to 90 day lag so call it a one quarter lag but we can move pretty quickly.
Okay and then one thing on the margin on the five basis point of pressure that you attributed to rates and spreads coming out.
Should we assume that that pace continues for that piece? There’s obviously moving parts in the net interest margin but for that piece of it does that hold at that kind of five basis point pressure? John I wish I could give you a guarantee of what specifically the impact will be.
It does seem to have moderated a bit but it’s really a function of all the mix of loan growth and also of securities purchasers.
But it seems like it’s moderating a bit.
And remember John we’ve been pretty thoughtful about reinvesting but we saw some opportunities late in the year that is still shuttling.
And we also saw great loan growth in the fourth quarter.
So all those things have an impact.
And those MBS balances you mentioned may gain towards the end of the fourth and into the first quarter.
Tim those are funded with the cash balances right? They’re only earning about 25 basis points a year increasing the yield there right? That’s correct.
But it was 16.
Okay.
16 that you’ve done so far.
No no.
I’m talking about 16 basis points.
On the yield.
Okay.
In terms of deposit cost.
Yeah.
Got it.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you John.
Your next question will come from the line of Erika Penala of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Good morning.
Hi Erika.
Hi.
My first question is on the excess liquidity.
I guess from the first part of the $27 billion in average growth escrow that you saw this quarter how much of that do you think is sticky and if you think most of that is sticky I appreciate the commentary you made about if loan growth continues at this pace you can absorb some of that liquidity but that still leaves you with some excess.
Could you give us a sense of what your deployment strategy is going to be for the next year? Erika you raised a really good point and that is we did see very outsized deposit growth and the fact of the matter is that a good portion of that deposit growth came toward the end of the quarter.
And whenever that happens we want to be careful to watch that deposit growth overtime to make sure that we do think it is sticky.
What’s interesting is that notwithstanding that we’ve had periods like this over the last couple of years one in point would be the third quarter of 2011.
But that deposit growth has been maintained here.
So we’re optimistic that we can maintain a good portion of that deposit growth.
My guess is we probably -- it maybe difficult to maintain all of it.
And so it creates a real opportunity for us because the way that we think about deposit growth is not just to fund our loan growth or fund investments.
It’s broadening the relationships and bringing new relationships into the company and so that gives us an opportunity not only to invest and increase spread income over time but to be able to broaden those relationships so that we can grow fee income which is really what you saw this quarter.
We saw broad-based fee growth and the way that we think about that fee growth this quarter is reflective of all the deposit growth that we’ve had over the last couple of years which has been pretty exciting.
Let me add to that Erika first of all we feel no urgency to have to put something to work that might not be economic for us.
We had excess liquidity last summer.
And today MBSes are 30 40 50 basis points richer or higher yield.
And as Tim mentioned virtually all these deposits are part of our relationships.
We’re here to serve customers and these deposits I think we’re moving share today.
And this is going to benefit this company for years and years and years to come and a lot of that revenue does sharpen the non-interest income side.
If you think back four years ago we had about $650 billion of non-CD deposits in this company.
Today we have $950 billion.
I mean yeah there has been periods of faster growth slow growth but we’re moving share and I can be happy about this.
Understood.
And my second question if I could is a follow-up to John’s.
Again we appreciate the comment on the first quarter with regards to the seasonality in pay as well as some of the $125 million is still going to linger in the run rate.
But if we think about the second quarter and I take $12.9 billion that you posted take out IFR settlement of $644 million the charitable contribution of $250 million and take out $125 million.
Is $11.8 billion a good sort of run rate based for your second quarter.
Obviously there are moving parts.
You mentioned the mortgage production-related expenses and investment in the franchise.
But is $11.8 billion a good starting point for the second quarter? Erika the math that you just did is reasonable.
However I don’t know what our expense run rate is going to be in the second quarter.
What I do know is that we’re going to continue to focus on reducing expenses and improving our expense efficiency ratio.
If revenues are up I would expect expenses to be a little bit higher and that’s a good thing.
As long as we’re delivering those our revenues at a reasonable return and seeing an improvement in the expense efficiency ratio.
But again we’ve been very clear we still believe that our expenses are too high.
But we’re focused on improving the expense efficiency ratio as opposed to providing the target in terms of the hard dollar costs in any quarter.
Tim is absolutely right.
We’re not going to be slavish any absolute number.
But as Tim mentioned the take-away tooth burns.
Expenses are still too high.
We’re focused on that.
And I would love to see expenses go up if it’s appended to increased revenues.
Your next question will come from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
On the servicing side of the house if people are generally somewhat concerned about volatility in the -- on the origination income.
But I noticed that your annual kind of servicing fees for kind of clipping the coupons are close to $1 billion and yet your net income -- your net revenue that your report is about $250 million it was $200 million last quarter.
So all the market value and hedging costs are that number in between can you talk a little bit what could -- might get so that you could report kind of a cleaner number there? What has to happen in terms of the level of refis is it a change in rates because you’ve got -- you’ve had a backup in rates in the last few weeks.
So just talk about that a little bit? Sure Moshe.
That’s a good question.
I think when you look at the results in 2012 you saw a number of things that occurred in terms of the servicing income.
I think one which we called out is just the higher level of unreimbursed expenses related to lengthening the foreclosure timelines and foreclosure costs.
As we talked about we will review those as being environmental which is why we called them out.
I can’t promise you how quickly they will come down but our guess is they will come down and there will be less -- over time there’ll be less of an impact on the value of servicing.
The other phenomena that you saw and it occurred to a greater extent in the first quarter and into to a lesser extent this quarter was our assumptions around the discount rate.
We had a discount rate change in the first quarter we had a small discount rate change related to access servicing in the fourth quarter that impacted the number by about $53 million.
And again we’re hopeful that we don’t see those kinds of discount changes over time.
Just kind of on a unrelated topic you mentioned the growth of deposits you are seeing and service charges has there been any kind of pricing either from you and your competitors pricing changes in the service charge area that are worth noting? One of the initiatives that we have had over the last year is to simplify our checking account -- accounts and also to make sure that we were being paid appropriately for the services that we provide.
So we’ve repriced the checking account base this year in the company and that’s been an initiative in our retail banking group and notwithstanding that they’ve been able to grow deposits and over the year grow accounts.
There’s not much change in the competitive landscape.
Your next question will come from the line of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
So I guess my margin questions were sort of asked already but one more quick question.
You outlined that you had $11.9 billion of unrealized gains in the securities portfolio.
Now that we’re in a Basel III world and that accounting has capital on a B3 basis.
Is there any desire or anything being done to try to protect that against a rising rate environment or how do you think about that in terms of capital and the desire to protect it? Well it’s two ways to think about it.
It’s a good question and of course you know how much we enjoyed talking about the NIM.
So any additional questions are terrific.
But the way that we think about it is that we look at the underlying risk return for any security and we do that every day for our entire portfolio.
And so you really need to start looking at that on a security by security basis.
And there are certainly days when we look at some of our investments and we decide that it makes sense to go ahead and sell.
But remember that we think about that -- the -- that portfolio the AFS portfolio as a longer term investment portfolio.
So you don’t really see a lot of sales it tends to be a little bit of the exception because again we’ve invested those for the long-term.
I think in terms of the potential capital impact you’re absolutely right it does take it is going to be a potential impact and that’s one of the reasons why we think it’s prudent to have a cushion in addition to the minimum 8% Tier 1 common equity under Basel III estimates that we’ve talked about now since Investor Day.
And we’re making a lot of progress in terms of growing our Tier 1 common equity 8.18% so we are going to be at 9% hopefully in the next year or so.
But again that’s another reason to have a question.
But I wouldn’t look to us try to monetize that $11.9 billion because we think we’re getting the good risk return on the spread income for those investments.
And you wouldn’t do anything necessarily from a hedging standpoint above and beyond what you’ve historically done to try to protect that? No.
I don’t I think that that would make sense because and what you’d have is you have an asset that’s generating income that’s not mark-to-market and versus hedge that’s potentially marked.
And that creates a mismatch in the industry that’s created problems and that’s just not how we think about it.
And as a -- as if rates do backed up there is a whole bunch of other things that happen with the company I mean actually earnings increased with your margin.
So it might not be quarter-to-quarter and that’s why Tim about that’s why we are going to an extra buffer but if rates back up that would be a good thing for us.
We love that.
Right.
Right.
… for the right reason because economy is getting better and so forth.
Okay.
And then just one quick follow-up I take it from your answers to John and Erika’s questions that you’re not feeling any special urgency to get the excess liquidity here reinvested.
It sounds like when you talked about some additional security -- securities purchases in the beginning of this quarter but it sounds like you’re going to take your time and sort of judge your rate environment and invest that excess liquidity more over time than right away is that the way to think about it? That’s absolutely right.
It gives us great flexibility in terms of running the company so you’re spot on.
That’s right Ed.
We think that’s a real benefit of the company.
Okay.
All right.
Great.
Thanks guy.
Appreciate it.
Thanks Ed.
Your next question will come from the line of Joe Morford with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hi Joe.
Hi Joe.
The C&amp;I growth was much stronger in the fourth quarter so it looks like the fiscal cliff concerns really didn’t dampen customer demand much.
What were some of the key drivers to the increased volumes this quarter was there any increased line utilization and just how do you feel about the outlook for C&amp;I growth in the year ahead? Yeah.
Joe just a quick answer on line utilization it was up slightly but it wasn’t a primary driver.
Actually was kind of interesting because the fiscal cliff negotiations and the potential for increases and changes in tax rates actually had slightly positive effect on loan growth in the fourth quarter particularly toward -- on the commercial side and particularly toward the end of the quarter so there was some amount of growth related to some of our customers taking actions and so on and so forth.
But when you look at the growth within Wholesale Banking it was pretty broad based.
Our middle market lending business grew our commercial real estate business grew corporate banking grew asset-backed finance grew.
So we were very pleased with the performance and again it just creates an opportunity to broaden relationships particularly with new customers.
But it was very broad based and I would say that fiscal cliff was a net positive to loan growth.
Okay.
So it sounds like you feel pretty good about the sustainability of this momentum going forward there? Well there is going to -- there’s always some seasonality I should have mentioned that I apologize.
There is some seasonality there could be -- we could see a bit of that fall off in the first quarter if that was primarily related to the fiscal cliff.
But we feel confident that we can continue to grow our loans in Wholesale.
As we mentioned we have been able to do that for a number of quarters and we’ve been able to do that for a number of quarters in many of the Wholesale Businesses.
Okay.
Then my other question was just if you could just talk little bit more about your reaction to the new qualified mortgage rules announced yesterday by the CFPB and just how might that effect your origination volumes going forward? Yeah.
Joe I -- as I mentioned in my comments I think that CFPB found the right balance and listened to a variety of constituencies or people who they employ.
And I think regarding the QM it’s going to provide -- it provides its broad it provides clarity and I think it’s going to help more Americans get more credit and that’s good for housing good for America.
Well let’s step back a second.
That’s not the old issue that you need to be sold for.
We still have the GACs out there.
We have FHA seminar issues.
We have the QRM that need to be decided.
You have issues around states of their own things new services.
There is a whole bunch of other things going on here but this is a positive move.
Your next question will come from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
A couple questions one on the purchase reserves and one just general.
So on the purchase reserves I know you indicated that you’re making a reserve for old vintages.
And we hear from other institutions they’re just making the reserve for vintages that have been requested by the agencies.
So I am wondering if you have been requested by more vintages than you’re hearing your peers are or if you’re just taking current requests and applying it to everything that you’ve got? A good question particularly with a lot of the noise in the market.
Our reserving process is the same as it’s always been.
There is really nothing new this quarter relative to any other quarter and that is we reserve for all probable and current future demands from all vintages all vintages.
It’s based on all the conversations we have all the documents we receive.
So it really hasn’t changed we take into consideration any of the conversations we’ve had with the agencies and we feel very good about the reserve that we have today And you are making some increase to the reserve even today so conversations obviously change over time and you just take those conversations reflect against vintages.
Is that fair? That’s correct Betsy.
That’s absolutely right.
And then secondly on just the loan loss reserves we had some commentary from FASB about proposal for moving to life of loan reserving.
And I guess I am not sure I am understanding your first take on that how you think that would impact your reserve process and the levels and if you could tie it into your comment do you think that the reserving -- the reserve release is likely to slow in ‘13 versus ‘12? Let me take the last part of your question first.
The primary driver in terms of why we think the reserve release will probably slow this year is that we’re seeing a -- while we continue to see improvement and reduction in loan losses is improving at a slower rate than it was a year ago and two years ago still seeing improvement.
That’s great.
In addition we’re seeing a growth in the loan portfolio.
So we think we’re going to see reserve releases but the expectations that it will be a little bit less than what we saw or it will be less than what we saw in ‘13.
In terms of the Fed’s discussions again that’s a real work in progress right now.
It’s something that is probably going to take a few years to determine -- it will probably increase our reserving level it will probably be more of a one-time increase and then you’ll see reserve on a current basis probably come down.
But again I don’t want to speculate too much on that because it’s still a work in process but I think it would be -- likely to be one-time reset for the industry and then the new world will potentially be lower reserves on a current basis.
Are there any loan categories today that you are doing a form of life of loan reserving or would all -- your loan category need to be -- No for us it would impact all of the loan categories.
Your next question will come from the line of Paul Miller with FBR.
Did I hear you correctly when you were going through the balance sheet growth that you’re not going to grow your residential portfolio anymore did I hear that correctly? Yes and no let me clarify Paul.
What we -- we’ve been very clear to call out the amount of first conforming first mortgage production that we otherwise would sell in a quarter and we did $9.8 billion of that in the third quarter and then we had $9.7 billion of that in the fourth quarter and then there will be another $2 billion to $3 billion from fourth quarter production that will close in January.
Okay.
That’s conforming first mortgage production.
But what we will continue to do is we will continue to hold all of our non-conforming or jumbo mortgage production on balance sheet and I think our growth in the fourth quarter was about $4 billion.
And we like that business such a great business for us.
And of the $125 billion just to clarify that you produced in the quarter does that $9.7 billion come out of that $125 billion and you sold roughly $115 billion.
Is that correct? No.
That doesn’t.
The $125 billion is what we sold.
Okay.
So you produced close to $135 billion to $140 billion? No no.
I’m sorry Paul.
I misspoke.
I apologize.
The 125 billion includes the $9.7 billion.
So we’re trying to create -- okay so we’re trying to back into a gain on sale margin.
We should back out that 9.7 billion? That’s correct.
Okay.
And then you talked about that that about $9 billion of the decline in the pipeline was from exiting the brokerage channel.
Have you made any other -- did you tighten up the corresponding channel at all as that? I know you said you’re not going to expand the channel anymore.
Have you tightened it up? No.
And again it was $8 billion of production that we had in the wholesale channel in the third quarter that we didn’t have in the fourth quarter because we exited that channel by the end of the third quarter.
But the corresponded channels still a very important part of our origination that we did not tighten up underwriting standards for the corresponded channel.
Okay.
And the pipeline channel was down roughly 20%.
Was that also due to the exit of the brokerage channel? By a small amount yeah.
I would just describe the decline in the pipeline as much seasonal as anything else.
It’s still -- and we ended the quarter with one of the strongest pipelines that we’ve ever had in our history.
So we’re very excited in terms of how we’re entering the first quarter.
And then just to clarifying other comment.
You did say that you expect production in the first quarter to be greater than the fourth quarter for mortgage production? No.
Not necessarily.
Okay.
I’m not going to ask you then? Yeah.
No no not necessarily.
Just we start the quarter with a higher pipeline then we did a year ago.
Okay.
I understood.
But Paul we’re still excited about the mortgage business.
We still think it’s lots of opportunity there? And then I don’t know if you guys -- can you guys make any comments about the gain on sale margins.
Is the profitability in mortgage banking holding up despite the fact that we’re seeing rates go up 10 20 basis points last week or so two weeks ago? Yeah.
It has.
In fact our gain on sale in the fourth quarter was 2.56% versus 2.21% in the third quarter.
So they were up in the quarter.
Again these are very high levels.
We’re very pleased to have these gains but they -- and so because they are high the likelihood is they could come down a bit.
But it’s a very very good business right now.
Well I was wondering -- I mean as of today we got two weeks under our belt and we’ve seen the -- because of the fiscal cliff the fiscal cliff agreement that came out that they backed the 10 years backed up that 20 basis points.
But ongoing operability in these mortgages are still -- haven’t really backed of at all for the first couple of weeks of the year.
Yeah.
A fair question.
I haven’t looked over the last couple of weeks in terms of what the profitability -- last week what the probability in terms of loans we brought in in the last week.
But it’s profitable right now.
Okay.
Hey guys.
Thank you very -- go ahead.
Thank you.
However the volumes of the spring season typically the better sell season so your purchase money there is still lot of activity in the mortgage business.
Okay.
Hey guys.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Matt O’Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
Hey Matt.
Two unrelated questions.
First when we look at your wholesale borrowings so I just confess I’m thinking about short-term borrowings long-term debt foreign deposits things like that.
I mean I realize some or little bit longer term than others.
I’m curious why we haven’t seen those buckets come down when you’ve had all the strong deposit growth? Well remember the strong deposit growth that we had in the fourth quarter was just in the fourth quarter.
In fact in the fourth quarter you saw our long term debt decline a bit and the way that we think about our long term debt levels today is that they are about where they need to be.
And so much of what you will see us -- what you saw us do last year is just replacement.
We still think it’s appropriate to have a certain level of long term debt that’s very important in terms of our long term debt ratings.
So it’s unlikely you’re going to see a big decline in that this year.
But Matt if you go back four years ago look at our numbers I think we had something over $4 billion of short and long-term debt now it’s down to a combined 180 or something like that.
So over time it has come down as we’ve grown deposits.
We think some debt to maintain our ratings and support the balance sheet is important.
And as you think about the other buckets outside of long-term debt short-term borrowings foreign deposits are those at appropriate levels I guess I thought that instead of growing the liquidity you would just bring that down (inaudible) just the OpEx or the NIM would it under so much pressure from adding from the Fed fund? Well the foreign deposits we have are from customers.
So candidly I hope those deposits are going to grow over time.
In terms of short-term borrowings you could see a slight decline in our short-term borrowings because of the increase in deposits.
But I guess the overall message is like as we think about the liability side of things there is not a lot of levers to pull from a mix point of view like you’ve done a lot of what you can do… Yeah I guess I would say the following.
First we still have about $2 billion $2.5 billion of troughs that will likely come off the balance sheet this quarter early second-quarter.
And then I do think that if you look at the costs of our long-term debt even as it’s staying -- coming down a little bit but staying the same you’re seeing us make progress in terms of reducing the long-term debt costs just because when you look at the rate environment today versus when we originated some of our long-term debt it’s just lower today.
And then just separate topic as we think about progression of legacy mortgages it’s a big picture like first you’re dealing -- the industry is dealing with some reserve build and actual charge-offs and there have been a lot of various servicing related agreements with the state attorney general OCC the Fed are we -- it feels like we’re pretty -- and of course with all the put backs on the servicing it feels like we are pretty far along on the servicing side or is there another round or two like outside of servicing that we should be aware of or will you wrap it up some of these remaining servicing issue do you think a lot of the legacy mortgage costs go away? Here’s what I think about that we went through this country especially with housing industry its really difficult period.
You would expect that your litigation costs all those sort of things will be elevated during that period.
You’re right we put a lot of stuff behind us some of that is inherent to the business as the business gets better I’d expect less of that but I’m pleased with how much we’ve gotten through with a lot of that behind us.
But I guess just it’s somebody who is not has involved in this as lot of the folks on the call well calling and say oh I thought the bank settled on this last year and obviously it’s different people or different constituencies coming in on the servicing side whether it’s the actual investors or I guess the politicians or the regulator are there avenues that any other folks would take like maybe on the origination side or just kind of other skeleton on the closet that we might be seeing? Well I mentioned in my comments that we’ve settled the origination and servicing and we [settled lookback] we settled a variety of things.
So I can predict what’s all going to come up but I can tell you I am pleased that with this far through the process we’ve gotten a lot of big things behind us.
And Matt I would just note that even as we’ve had to be a part of these settlements and they clearly had a financial cost to the company throughout that entire period we’ve generated record earnings.
12 quarters in a row it’s been a very difficult period of time that’s just talks about the diversity in earnings power of this company.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
Fair point.
And obviously a lot of your expenses relate either you have them lower than some.
And also look at the performance of our portfolio.
I mean 400 basis points better than the average for the industry is and that’s ultimately the opportunity decide on these things in many cases.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Matt.
Your next question will come from the line of Fred Cannon with KBW.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks so much.
Most of my questions have been answered.
I just had a couple follow-ups.
One on the qualified mortgage John you were generally positive about the direction.
There has been some concern about the jumbo market and some of the press report has said that the qualified mortgage about 20% of -- more of jumbo loans currently been made might not be able to be made as qualified mortgages.
I wonder if you could comments a little more specifically about the jumbo market? I think it’s early yet to comment because I’ve not read in detail more of our people had enough time to really understand everything that’s in the CFPB’s Q.
But let me just say this about the jumbo market.
We loved that business.
We’ve been it for a long time.
In many cases these are best customers and we do a lot of other things with them.
So I doubt at least I’d be surprised if whatever happened there would have a big negative impact on the jumbo market.
Okay.
One of the 804 pages like that’s understandable not to get through it yeah.
More than the 600.
I wonder but John on the expenses and I know you guys are doing focus on operating leverage.
Within your expense controls I wonder if you could comment about your thoughts about your branch network at this point in time in terms of both -- within kind of thinking about managing expenses about both the numbers of branches but also the configuration of kind of the footprint of your current branches especially given and where technology is today? Sure.
Couple of things there first of all I think we have the best team on the plan running our distribution.
And I couldn’t be happier about the 6 000 or so stores that we have and stores still today remain incredibly important in the overall distribution community.
Even though online especially tablet the so called lean-back technology is changing the industry.
Most customers choose their first financial services provider based on proximity to where they live and we have a store within 2 miles of half the American population.
It’s a huge advantage.
But we used to build 5 000 square foot stores with a 10 penny sign.
Now we’re building 10 penny stores with a 5 000 square foot sign.
It’s more important because if customers come there and then use other technologies they want to be able to go and say that’s where my money is that’s where I can go if there is an issue that’s where I go if I have a big transaction to do.
So stores still remain an incredibly important part of the ecosystem of delivery.
That might change over time and the tablet or the smartphone is changing the way customers do business with us.
They are on with us much more.
They are learning more and we’re doing have all kinds of experiments and test going on paperless stores and more self-service.
But and change is not new to us.
I mean we’ve been -- we had at one time in this company one service model.
It was a stage coach and that went away after a few years and we have tried something else so this is -- I find this exciting.
So I would be fair to say John that what the numbers of branches could even drift up from here but the square footage will probably be coming down? Yeah.
That could be.
Actually the most important thing and you probably know this in distribution is distribution density.
People want distribution where they live work recreate travel and so forth that is and we are gaining retail share faster today we have in my 35 years or 30 years with the company.
So it’s a -- but distribution -- physical distribution remains a critical part of it.
But size is the way you staff it the number of people and all of that sure that needs to evolve.
And it is evolving.
But we’re not in the camp that you can circulate the greatness.
Your next question will come from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies &amp; Company.
The one further on the environmental expenses we understand were the content order -- 125 should be out of the run rate by the second and Tim to your point about being 800 million now still on a quarterly run rate.
I was just wondering you could kind of give us just a general understand of the rest of it the 675 that you’re still carrying.
What’s the tail-off of that as we go ahead and the biggest one being -- are we closer to the end of the putback reserve build? I wish I knew the answer to -- specific answer to the question Ken because it’s a real good one.
It’s one that we think about a lot around here.
Maybe just to give you a sense of some of the magnitude if you look back in the fourth quarter of 2011 our foreclosed asset expenses were $390 million they were 221 this quarter that was down from the third-quarter down from the second-quarter.
So you’re seeing those costs for example come down quarter by quarter and not necessarily by a lot but that will never go down to zero but certainly we can continue to make progress on that.
As it relates to our repurchase reserve build I think that the biggest mistake anybody in this industry can make is predict when that’s going to end because we just don’t know.
We’ve been fortunate over the last that we peaked in the second-quarter and we’ve seen a decline in the third quarter and in the fourth quarter can’t promise you whether that’s going to continue but at some point we will be through all the vintages we will have all the conversations and will be done.
But I don’t know the pace at which that can continue.
So I’d love to give you a specific number but I just don’t know we just do believe that they’re going to be coming down over time.
And that’s what you’ve been seeing over the last few quarters.
And then my second one is the gain on sale question question again on the mix it being up 30 basis points or so how much of that was the market versus how much of that was the channel mix you had because of the lack of the wholesale product in the mix of origination? Well clearly some of it was related to channel mix because you think at the margin we didn’t have any wholesale origination versus having more retail.
I don’t know what the exact impact that was on the margin apologize we can follow up with that but the margin was up over 30 basis points quarter to quarter.
So it was a combination of both.
The important thing is that retail generally comes with at a higher margin rate so we shouldn’t necessarily look at it that is inappropriate right? No I don’t think it’s inappropriate that’s the gain on sale margin there’s also higher costs and expenses associated with the two.
But it’s a very very good thing from our perspective.
My last one is just on the non-controlling interest it didn’t change on the balance sheet but it was doubled the amount there normally is it’s actually extra $0.02 that you paid out this quarter.
Any color you can provide us on that? That was directly attributable to the gains that we had in the private equity business that we mentioned so in our equity gains and so that’s really an offset to that.
We didn’t necessarily feel like we had to offset that when we called out that impact.
But you’re right that’s actually [de duck] to the net of impact.
That’s incremental to the number that you showed us in the press release? Yes that’s correct.
The bottom line is that it shouldn’t be at that level going forward because it was specific to the sale of the business.
Correct unless we have -- if we have more gains -- the gains are a good thing right but that’s what we would -- that’s correct it’s d doc to us.
And then my last tiny one is just on the -- on the putback question the reserve addition of the provision was 379 can you tell us what the actual losses were this quarter? Hold on I will get that number in a second.
It’s in -- $206 million.
$206 million.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks very much guys appreciate it.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
Good morning.
Hey Chris.
Hi.
Given the Becker Underwood gain this is a good quarter I ask you about a business you do not get to talk about that often which is the venture capital business.
I know it’s been magnificent contributors since the Norwest days but looking at your disclosures at year-end it looked like you had about a $1.4 billion invested in VC fund of various types at September about a $1.3 billion.
And you had $1.5 billion of gains there this year and I’m wondering are you still able to invest in that fund in the venture capital business? Are you still making new investments or does the Volcker Rule kind of put this into liquidation mode.
That’s a really good question.
I think our best guess of the impact that we are going to see from the Volcker Rule and again I want to be careful because Volcker Rule has not been finalized yet is that it would eliminate or/and our ability to invest in a private equity fund or real estate opportunity fund as a limited partner.
That seems pretty clear that that business would get eliminated or that activity would get eliminated as part of Volcker.
However we believe that we will continue to be able to invest and we continue to invest today in Norwest Venture Partners and Norwest Equity Partners which we believe will be allowed under the Volcker Rule.
And those are your investments in those funds are what we see in page -- in your 10-Q the $854 million and $83 million? Well yes but there’s also still a legacy amount of equity investments that are related to limited partnership investment that we’ve made over time or previously and those are going to come down over time.
But again we believe we will continue to be able to invest in NVP and NEP.
Okay.
Excellent.
And then lastly I guess just not the NIM question but in net interest income dollars question.
And that’s that it seems like since the first quarter of 2011 net interest income has been $10.8 billion plus or minus.
I mean you’ve been holding it steady and loan growth has been like this quarter it was 1.3%.
So you’ve had to run just to keep still and yet you said you think expect net interest income dollars to start going up.
And I guess what gives you the confidence that you know the treadmill that you’re going to be able to run faster than the treadmill in the year ahead? Well I think it’s a good analogy.
It certainly has been a treadmill because our folks have been working very hard.
But I think what gives us confidence is that’s what we did when you compare 2012 to 2011.
We grew net interest income dollars in this environment.
Almost $0.5 billion.
Right.
And so we like it to be higher you bet we would.
But I think we’ve been able accomplish that not necessarily on a sequential quarter basis each quarter but year-over-year we’ve been able to accomplish that with the headwinds that we all know we’ve experienced in the net interest margin.
So I guess we just look at it and say we hope history repeats itself because we think we can do that.
Our liquidating portfolio we are getting closer and closer to the end of that because when we wake up in the morning the first day of the quarter we know historically $5 billion or $6 billion would shrink on that side while it was $4.1 billion this last quarter.
So we are going to work through that but the investments we are making some of the on balance sheet some of the loan growth all of that helps.
And also we have reduced liability cost 2 basis points across the Board.
That’s important.
All right.
That’s it for me.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question will come from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Good morning.
Hey Mike.
Hey Mike.
I have questions on the good the bad and the ugly.
I think you had last time.
I think that’s you had.
You want to start with ugly first? Okay.
I thought it was.
Okay.
I don’t want to repeat myself too much.
Let’s start with the good.
Page 26 of the supplement the nonaccretable difference I think the good news is as you said housing is doing a little bit better.
So why do you still have $7 billion of non-accretable difference or 23% of the unpaid balance.
What constraints you from recognizing more of that back to accretable yield? Well the analysis that we do is done on a quarterly basis where we look at our expectation related to future loss we look at the default rates re-default rates and the like.
And we make adjustments over time.
You can see in the pages from supplemental we’ve made adjustments over time.
In fact in the third quarter we increased -- we moved I think about 400 $500 million from non-accretable to accretable.
and our expectation is over time is that if we believe that housing prices are going to -- if you believe that housing prices are going to continue to increase and we do that that won’t the last time that we would move non-accretable to accretable.
It just didn’t happen based upon our models in the fourth quarter.
And also in the good category just a general question how much longer -- this question I did ask last time how much long do you think this gain on sale margin will hold a much longer we have more of a refi boom based on your own website 30 year conforming is now 3.6% and under 3.5 for most of last quarter.
And you need to have some expectations and you guys have to plan on that do we have one more quarter two more quarters two more years what’s your best guess? You know what I don’t know for sure but in the fourth quarter we provided some detail in terms of our servicing portfolio and we cut the portfolio you can get this on the website.
You can cut the portfolio based on note rate and then we also segmented by loan-to-value and we also segmented it by FICO score.
And what you see there is there are hundreds of billions of dollars of opportunities I am not publishing you that we get every one of those refinancing opportunities but there’s hundreds of billions of dollars of refinancing opportunities that are just in our existing portfolio alone.
So it doesn’t feel like this is absent a big increase in rates that that this is going to be the last quarter that we’re going to see good volume originations from our refinance activity.
So it could last a couple more quarters sure it could last through the end of the year.
Your guess is as good as mine but there is a lot of opportunity out there.
We start the quarter with a very strong pipeline one of the strongest pipelines in our history so we feel confident and we’re optimistic about continued originations in the mortgage business.
Mike think about this the average rate in the portfolio securities portfolio is 4.77% and the street rate is 3.25 3.5 I don’t know exactly where it is from day-to-day but so on average there is at least a 100 basis point opportunity there customers typically are using the money they do that 50 basis points.
Now it’s going to be little more difficult yet it is marketing and retail more important absolutely that’s placed to us.
We have the largest retail sales force we have thousands of team members in our stores.
We’re talking to customers everyday and finding leads.
So this is what we do.
So again I don’t know how many quarters it’s going to be.
I don’t know all that.
But I am optimistic.
And under the bad category the loan utilization has not improved a whole lot.
I guess you’re saying it’s good because you’re moving market share but why isn’t loan utilization going up why is it there’s more demand from the customers? Most of our commercial customers their balance sheets are strong as I have seen in years and years.
They are sitting with tons of liquidity and cash flows.
So what -- it’s kind of logical that they would use our cash firstly they would borrow.
But a good part of that whole story is we are growing in spite of that.
The day will come when they will start to use those lines again.
We’ve already had all the embedded costs just think what happens then.
So I view this as kind of good not a bad.
And then the ugly I know you don’t call this as ugly the last margin question.
And you brought up that last year grew despite the margin and all that but late quarter didn’t look as good.
Look if you core deposit pricing goes down by two basis points and your loan repricing goes down by five and your securities pricing goes down by 11.
That’s not a good formula.
So when do you think that margin decline goes away? You know what if you tell me where rates are going to be on any scenario then I can give you a better idea.
I don’t know where rates are going to go Mike.
I think it’s a very fair question right.
But the important thing right when you think about Wells Fargo is not to be overly focused on the net interest margin.
We get half -- about half of our income through spread income.
We get about half of our income through fee income.
You saw diversified growth on the spread income side in terms of loans the best that we had in a long time right.
More important -- as important you saw diversified growth in fees.
And so sure we’re on that the net interest margin is under pressure.
But even in a quarter where the net interest margin was down 10 basis points.
Again mostly because of deposits what we think long-term is a great thing in terms of growing that deposit growth our net interest income was about flat right.
I view that as pretty strong performance in this environment.
And I also suggest a lot of companies would kill for our margin.
Feel pretty good.
I mean yeah it’s come down but for the all the reasons that Tim said why would we turn away deposits from our customers.
It -- we are not -- surely we look at the margin surely we think about that but we don’t run a business according to it.
So and I know we’ve had this discussion many times.
But for a company that can grow revenue 6% to 7% without any help really much help from the -- from half of your revenue side that’s a very strong company.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Your next question will come from the line of Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
Good morning.
Good morning Marty.
I want to follow-up on.
Hey I want to follow-up on one of the questions that your answer to Mike on the refinance activity.
You brought up that the average rate is $4.75 the street rate is around $3.50.
So half of your customers are still in a position where they should refinance? What are the two main reasons that are holding them up with all the HARP out there and all the other programs and initiatives what helps to get those customers back in front of you and able to do the refinancing at this point they really should be able to do? Yeah.
Marty I don’t know or wouldn’t necessarily agree that it’s half of the servicing customers.
It’s certainly a large portion.
So if you think our servicing portfolio is about $1.9 trillion I think when you look at how we’ve cut the servicing portfolio and some of the work that we did last quarter that we provided I think the numbers probably a quarter to maybe a third of the $1.9 trillion.
What keeps some people as they are toward the end of the maturity of their loan and they look at it and say you know what it doesn’t make sense or they’ve got other things to do or their loan -- their LTV might be high and it might they might be -- they could excuse me they could apply for the HARP program and it takes a while to do that.
So there is a lot reasons why folks do it.
It’s not because our team is not out there working very hard to try to help them refinance their loans.
Yeah.
I would also say that there has been so much volume coming that it’s taken 90 days or it’s been a long process.
Now that we’ve built up our team we are looking more at.
We can shorten that period of time which it takes to refinance is 60 days.
So I think that’s an advantage.
But the real advantage is we’ve got this retail distribution working together is all our personal bankers and commercial bankers who look for these opportunities refer to a mortgage company so that’s really one of our strengths and how we are going to harvest this and serve these customers.
Okay.
Staying on mortgage for a second if you look at the hedging value at 67 basis points we actually saw an uptick couple of basis points this quarter.
As you’re looking at rates now moving really in an upward direction at some pace in the future.
What are you doing with your hedging such that you lightened the bite of the hedging negatives as rates go up and allow the value of the increased value and servicing as the extension of the life bringing some of that to the bottom line to help offset whatever down draft you might see on the origination side.
We’re not going to fundamentally change our hedging strategy.
We don’t want to think about the MSR as a way to speculate on interest rates right.
That’s just not -- none of us around here are smart enough to know where interest rates are going to go.
But we are pretty good at doing what our mortgage team is very good at doing.
And that is putting a hedge in place that keeps the appropriate level of risk so that we can look at our servicing asset and generates the income based upon the fundamentals of the business as opposed to the direction of rates.
And I guess instead of really betting on interest rate there’s almost like we’re paying for insurance that you don’t really need to have because further drops in interest rates are not as feasible as it will be before rates were higher? Marty that’s a fair point except you know what if we were sitting here a year ago we might have said the same thing and then we would’ve been wrong we would have a big loss in the MSR we’ve had to on hedge and you could have said the same thing two years ago.
So at some point you’re going to be absolutely right I just not and we’re not smart enough to know exactly when that inflection point is going to be and we’re just not going to use the MSR to speculate on rates.
This is a really good business and that’s not making any sense for us.
When you look at the asset quality and the net charge-offs dropping down to -- if you take the OCC impact of around 89 basis points.
So we have gone from 130 in the fourth quarter last year to a little less than 90 basis points.
That trend you would think as the underwriting and the lack of demand and the cleanup in the portfolio and run off of some of the more troubled portfolios or ones that have a little bit more pressure could really in a good time end up less than 75 basis points.
Do you kind of see that migration over the next couple years? I hope you’re correct.
I think we’ve got to be a little bit careful because in some of our businesses we’re already experiencing much less than typical loan losses for example in the wholesale business.
It’s about as good as it is going to get.
Now we could see a little bit of improvement but that part of the business we’ve already seen a decline.
The disproportionate share of our loan losses continue to come from the home equity portfolio that portfolio continues to reduce in terms of overall size.
So we’re hopeful that the loan-loss rate that we experienced in net or gross of the OCC guidance will continue to go down whether or not we can get to 75 basis points only time’s going to tell but we’re clearly going in the right direction.
And then last question thanks for spending so much time is you talked about the yield curve steepened at the end of the year that you started to go and hit some of those higher yields.
What kind of critical level are you looking at in a sense that the yield curve can steepen as we saw much quicker than the Fed ever starts to tighten interest rate? As you start thinking about deploying liquidity what are some of the levels that your [Alco] guidelines or thought process brings you to be a little more aggressive on the liquidity side? Well Marty if you look back at where rates rose to right toward the end of year.
So we think about the two inflection points that we saw was a few days to a week period as the fiscal cliff negotiations seemed to be going fairly well that rates backed up pretty significantly and that was a good indication of some of the inflection points that we were looking at.
And then likewise when the Fed minutes were released last week and it was a little bit of surprise in terms of the dissension or healthy conversations minutes maybe that’s a better way to describe it among the various our Fed governors voters and not that rates rose again and we took an opportunity -- we took that opportunity to buy.
So it’s at those levels we feel are pretty attractive over a long-term basis.
Marty we don’t have any sad number that we say this is a number that which we will buy for the next 30 or 60 day or whatever.
It’s a very dynamic that are in process.
We’re looking we’re reading we’re thinking we’re -- so that’s kind of how we go about this.
And with the bias towards conservatism and making sure that we understand in the whole asset liability mix and so forth.
Your next question will come from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
One sort of universal question it’s applicable to you and I think it’s applicable to the industry as well.
Your ROE has improved to about 13% which is one of the better ROEs in the industry.
So I guess my question is how do we look at normalized ROE not only for you but for the rest of the industry? I mean the 13% is good.
It’s below your historical levels.
Is it desirable or is it possible to get back to those historical levels? Yeah.
That’s a really good question.
I think that fundamental to the question is just that when you look at the level of equity that the industry is going to have to hold in the next few years or beyond that is just higher than it was pre-crisis.
So I think it’s unlikely when you compare pre-crisis return on equity to post-crisis what we are experiencing now that we are going to get back to that high teens that even in some quarters low 20s returns on equity.
Now having said that at our Investor Day we provided a range of return on equity between 12% and 15% the reason we provided that range is that the level of economic activity and interest rates as we know can drive our return.
So our best guess is that in the current environment relatively slow growing economy that we’re obviously making the best of that in lower rates we think will be the middle to lower end of that range.
If rates tick up and the economy starts to pick up a bit we think we can be at the higher end of that range and hopefully get up to the mid-teens.
Hopefully that helps.
A question for you John I mean the QM I don’t know how it has come out relative to what the industry expected.
But it’s clearly going to keep some people out of mortgage market who got into the mortgage market before.
You expect that that now that we have the QM and you are going to be getting I think a higher quality customers resolve that the consumer groups are now going to start screaming about people being kept out of the mortgage market who were getting mortgage loans before? No.
It’s hard to speculate or comment with any confidence on what others might see in it.
I guess I’d just go back to couple of things.
First of all I don’t know everything that’s in the 800 and some pages.
But what I do know about it it solved a couple of issues I think are really important.
It created a broad standard or we got as many loans as possible into the QM definition.
And number two there is good clarity around legal protections and risk and so forth.
And there is also a debt to income or consumer debt or mortgage debt vis-à-vis income.
So there are some bright lines.
Hopefully that will encourage more participants in the industry more borrowers and I think that’s all good.
Now whether in that -- but I don’t think that alone will open up the floodgates of credit because all these other things went on that I had mentioned that are still unresolved but I think this is a step in the right direction.
I really do.
Okay.
Thirdly I would just ask you a question that could have been hanging around the Atlantic article which highlighted your accounting issues.
This is not new.
It’s bringing up a lot of the issues that have been brought up before.
Can you just give me your reaction to that and is there anything that you or anybody else in the industry can do to make some of these things like VIEs more transparent? First let’s talk about transparency.
We want -- in fact this team is available to anyone of you and call us we’re not hearing these things from our investors.
When I became CEO we reinstituted or started the live call.
We have the credit supplement.
The company is a pretty plain vanilla in the way we operate the company.
Yeah there are -- there is levels one twos and three assets in this but that doesn’t make them less credible just that sometimes there is not market prices we can do.
So we have to go through cash flows and establish values that way.
I have never seen us to be more transparent.
So if there is other things we can do I’m all ears for it.
But I’m not hearing that from investors and frankly I’m not hearing that kind of commentary from most of the people including analysts that I talk to.
But people are going to write what they want to write and they can make their own choices about where they invest their money.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Chris Mutascio with Stifel Nicolaus.
Good morning John and Tim happy New Year to you.
Hey happy New Year Chris.
Happy New Year.
And Tim I had a real quick question for you a follow up on the reserves.
You mentioned that your reserve releases will be lower in ‘13 than ‘12 but they could still continue to some degree.
If I back out the charge-offs from the OCC guidance related charge-offs in both third quarter and this quarter because I think you guys have mentioned they were already reserved for.
It looks like that you did under provide last quarter provision was $200 million lower the net charge-offs.
But this quarter if I backed them out your provision would be $70 million higher.
So in essence have the reserve releases already ended? No.
Not at all.
Okay.
There are so many puts and takes that go into our reserve release -- our reserving methodology that ultimately than produces our reserve release or if you look back a few years of reserve bill I wouldn’t just focus on the impact of the OCC guidance as the primary driver for that just a lot of puts and takes.
And if we thought that the reserve releases had ended we’d say so.
Okay.
Is there any thought I mean you may have asked this before and I know it’s a difficult question to answer but with FASB and with the environment we are from a regulatory perspective and where reserves were heading into the crisis? Any thought of where reserve to loans in a range and up post re-regulation versus the financial crisis? If we were at one to one in a quarter pre-crisis are we up to $1.50 to $1.75 when all is said and done on a reserve to loan basis or is that still too difficult to us retain? That’s a really fair question and I wish we had a great answer for you but there has been a lot of discussion and a lot of commentaries and jawboning from the regulators on this topic.
So I would describe it as a work in process.
We think that we’re appropriately reserved and we are hopeful that overtime our reserves can come down as long as our portfolio -- the credit losses and the portfolio continues to improve which is what we’ve been seeing.
All right.
Well thank you for the answer and good luck to you the rest of the year.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Our final question will come from the line of Andrew Marquardt with Evercore Partners.
Hey Andrew.
Hi Andrew.
Good morning guys.
How are you? Good.
A couple of ticky-tack questions for you.
First on the margins this last quarter you went through a couple of items in terms of the cash build burden in terms of the NIM impact and reprising.
But then also there was variable sources benefited few basis points.
What was that or what is that and how do we think about that? Is it seasonal one timer how do we think about that? I think that as we’ve described variable it’s a broad definition.
The primary drivers this quarter for the variable income was higher fee income.
So what that means is that when we have a loan we are -- and we charge a fee on a loan that fee generally accrues over the life of the loan.
When that loan is paid off early then we go ahead and recognize any of the unamortized portion of the loan fee.
So that was a primary driver this quarter.
I wouldn’t call it seasonal or one time.
We see that from time to time within the business.
Some quarters it’s higher sometimes it’s lower.
Got it.
Was it about the same last quarter or was this quarter a little bit higher? I’ll go back and look.
I think it was a little bit higher this quarter.
And again that’s not a typical for -- in terms of the -- but the amount of the variation is not a typical to what we’ve seen on a quarterly basis but it was a little bit higher.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then on asset quality and the reserve question Chris I think just mentioned.
Yeah.
I wanted to ask more granularly on Hurricane Sandy implications you had mentioned it on the earlier comments in your release.
How much of an impact was it really this quarter was it in charge-offs less reserve release how do we think about it? It really wasn’t in the absolute charge off number because it was -- we think about the timing of Hurricane Sandy.
So it was probably -- it was primarily in the reserve -- in the methodology that we use.
We assume that we are going to have some additional losses in the future from Hurricane Sandy.
So we wanted to make sure that we were appropriately reserve which we believe we are based upon our best estimates right now.
But as you can appreciate we’re very early into our true analysis or finalizing the analysis.
It’s going to take a while to see what the ultimate impact is.
But we think there were appropriate reserve based upon some conservatism assumptions right now.
Can you quantify how much the impact was this quarter? I’d rather not.
It was any -- the reason I don’t want to go into the specific details is because when you think about the reserving methodology again there’s lots of puts and takes.
Some things go up some things go down but just rest assured that we think we are appropriately reserved.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then just lastly on the tax rate even adjusting for the settlement this quarter it looks like -- the tax rate looks a little bit low 31% on an adjusted basis.
How do we think -- is that lower than what it’s been recently is that a new kind of run rate or should we think about going back another 33% 34% rate? Yeah.
What I would do -- that’s a fair question.
What I would do is go along the direction that you are and that is a back out the impact that we had in the fourth quarter and which is why we called that out because we don’t think 27% is sustainable.
And then you get to that the number that you are talking about 31% 32%.
I think that 31% 32% 33% is a reasonable number.
But it’s more likely to go up a bit in 2013 and what we’ve seen in 2012.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Okay.
Thanks very much everybody.
We had a full set of discussions and we really appreciate your interest in Wells Fargo.
Happy New Year again and we will see you at the end of the first quarter.
Thank you again.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo first quarter earnings conference call.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Rowe you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today during which our chairman and CEO John Stumpf; and our CFO Tim Sloan will discuss first quarter results and answer your questions.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that our first quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at wellsfargo.com.
I’d also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today’s call that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.
Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can also be found in our SEC filings in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website.
I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf.
Thank you Jim and thanks to everyone for joining us today.
In the first quarter Wells Fargo generated another record quarter of earnings and we achieved our 13th consecutive quarter of earnings per share growth.
We’ve achieved these results by doing what we have always done: remaining focused and meeting the financial needs of our customers and helping them succeed financially.
We accomplished this in an environment that I think we would all agree wasn’t ideal for generating earnings growth demonstrating the benefit of our diversified business model.
Our business is diverse in many ways.
We are geographically diverse we have over 80 different businesses that performed differently in various economic environments and our revenue is split fairly evenly between interest and noninterest income.
That kind of diversity lowers risk and enhances earnings stability and growth.
Let me start by highlighting examples of our strong performance in the first quarter compared to a year ago.
We earned a record $5.2 billion up 22% and also grew our earnings per share by 23%.
We reduced our expenses and improved our efficiency ratio by 180 basis points to 58.3%.
Our core loan portfolio grew by $50.9 billion up 8%.
Our credit losses reflected the benefit of a slowly improving economy and the high quality loans we’ve been originating over the past few years.
Our credit losses in the first quarter declined to 72 basis points the lowest level since second quarter 2006 and our net chargeoffs were down 41% from a year ago.
We also continued to benefit from our wonderful deposit franchise growing deposits by $80 billion up 9% from a year ago while reducing total deposit costs by 5 basis points.
Our growth reflects the benefit of our relationship model as demonstrated by achieving record retail banking cross-sell of 6.1 products per household.
We also grew wholesale banking cross-sell to 6.8 products and wealth brokerage retirement cross-sell increased to 10.3 products.
We grew our return on assets or ROA by 18 basis points to 1.49% and our return on equity increased by 145 basis points to 13.59%.
We continued to increase our capital levels growing our estimated tier one common equity under Basel III to 8.39%.
Returning more capital to our shareholders remains a priority and we’re extremely pleased that we were able to reward them in the first quarter by increasing our common dividend to $0.25 a share.
Our 2013 capital plan enables us to further increase our dividend rate to $0.30 a share in the second quarter subject of course to board approval and also increase our common stock repurchases in 2013 compared to our 2012 repurchase levels.
We’re obviously off to a great start in 2013 and I couldn’t be happier with the ability of our team members to continue to make more loans and grow deposits increase cross-sell and reduce expenses all while we continue to invest in our franchise and adhere to our risk management discipline.
Let me conclude by taking a moment to share my thoughts on some industry issues and our current view on housing.
A topic that has been in the headlines a lot lately that’s important to Wells Fargo our industry and the economic recovery of our country that is Too Big to Fail.
I believe our first priority as a country given the economy’s tepid growth is restoring economic health to America including consumers and businesses large and small.
Banks feel and support economic growth and we need banks of all shapes and sizes to serve the diverse needs of a diverse economy.
All banks add value and big banks have unique resources and capabilities to help the economy including coast-to-coast convenience a broad range of products and services and technology innovations serving large and small customers alike.
There are ongoing discussions about the need for more regulation and other changes.
We do not need additional legislation aimed at big banks.
Important and significant regulatory changes have been made since the financial crisis and we need to give existing regulations a chance to work especially now when all of our energy should be focused on creating growth and new jobs.
No bank should be considered too big to fail and no taxpayer money should ever be used to support a failing institution.
Some claim that we receive a subsidy or have an unfair advantage from being perceived as Too Big to Fail.
We disagree.
Wells Fargo supports economic growth in our country in a variety of ways including employing 1 in 500 working Americans and paying more than $10 billion in corporate income taxes last year.
We are the nation’s largest small business lender and increased new loan commitments to small businesses by 24% in the first quarter compared with a year ago and have grown loans to our middle-market customers for 11 consecutive quarters.
We also funded 1 in 4 U.S.
home mortgages in 2012 a total of over 2 million mortgage loans that helped our customers buy a home or refinance their existing home at much lower rates.
This is great for the overall economy because housing has led almost every economic recovery in recent history.
The momentum from the housing rebound during 2012 has remained strong in the early months of 2013.
Our near term outlook is for steady gains in home sales building activity and price appreciation.
Housing affordability remains excellent.
The overhang from unsold properties is gone and demographics are favorable.
Thank you again for joining us.
Tim Sloan our chief financial officer will now provide more details on our results this quarter.
Tim?  Thanks John.
Good morning everyone.
My comments will follow the presentation included in the first half of our quarterly supplement starting on page two and then John and I will take your questions.
Wells Fargo had another outstanding quarter with record earnings of $5.2 billion up 22% from a year ago and up 2% from the fourth quarter.
Earnings per share reached a record $0.92 up 23% from the first quarter last year.
We have now achieved 13 consecutive quarters of earnings per share growth and eight consecutive quarters of record EPS.
Quite an achievement given the environment during that period.
Revenue was down this quarter reflecting two fewer days in the quarter a decline in equity gains from elevated we had in the fourth quarter and the expected decline in mortgage volumes.
We were not surprised by these declines.
We had anticipated them and we are very pleased with the strong fee growth we generated in a number of our other businesses.
Our quarterly results also reflect lower expenses strong credit performance and increased capital levels.
As John highlighted and as you can see on page three we had year over year growth in pre-tax pre-provision profit net income EPS both total and core loans deposits and a higher ROA and ROE.
Slide four highlights that we’ve been able to generate consistently strong results through the diversity of our revenue.
We remain balanced between fee and spread income and our sources of fee income are highly diversified.
Mortgage banking accounted for 26% of our fee income this quarter and was 13% of our total revenue.
We could not be more pleased with the performance of our mortgage business.
What may surprise some of you is that trust and investment fees accounted for 30% of our fee income in the first quarter and has generated more fee income than any other category including mortgage for the past four quarters.
We had strong year over year fee growth with a number of our businesses with deposit service charges up 12% brokerage up 12% trusts and investment up 6% investment banking up 37% card fees up 13% merchant processing fees up 23% and mortgage servicing income of 25%.
With over 80 businesses they’re not all going to grow every quarter.
We are excited about the market share and cross-sell growth we achieved this quarter across a number of our businesses.
The diversity of our revenue enables us to make the right long term decisions and be disciplined in managing risk.
Overall this was a pretty straightforward quarter from a balance sheet and income statement perspective but let me highlight some key drivers to our results in the next two slides.
On page five you can see we continued to have balance sheet growth this quarter growing both loans and deposits.
Even though we purchased a total of $17.8 billion in agency MBS in the quarter our short term investments in Fed funds [sold] balance has increased by $6.5 billion as average deposits continue to grow.
We grew our securities available for sale portfolio by $13 billion up 5.5% from the fourth quarter.
This is our largest linked quarter increase since the fourth quarter of 2011.
We took advantage of the rate backup at various times within the quarter as rates rose and yields became more attractive.
Turning to the income statement on page six I’ve already highlighted some of the factors affecting the decline in revenue we had this quarter and I’ll talk about net interest income and noninterest income drivers in a minute.
Noninterest expenses declined as expected reflecting the elimination of elevated items we had last quarter and the addition of some seasonally higher benefit cost in the first quarter.
Our effective tax rate this quarter was 31.9% which included the benefit associated with the realization for tax purposes of a previously written down investment.
We expect the full year effective tax rate to be higher absent additional discrete benefits.
Let me now cover our business drivers in more detail.
As shown on page seven period end loans were up $33.5 billion or 4% from a year ago and grew by $392 million from the fourth quarter.
Loan growth included the runoff of our liquidating portfolio which declined $17.4 billion from a year ago and $3.7 billion from the fourth quarter.
Excluding these liquidating loans our core portfolio grew by $50.9 billion or 8% from a year ago and was up $4.1 billion from the fourth quarter.
Our linked quarter loan growth was impacted by the very strong quarter end growth we had last quarter and the fact that we were able to retain and add to those loan balances is a real positive.
Commercial loans grew $516 million in the quarter on growth in foreign loans.
We saw declines in foreign loans throughout most of last year and the growth we achieved this quarter was in trade finance reflecting increased economic activity in Asia.
Consumer loans declined $124 million with growth in first mortgage and auto offset by declines in junior lien mortgages and expected seasonal declines in credit card and student lending.
The growth in first mortgage loans benefited from the retention of $3.4 billion of new conforming fixed rate production.
We currently do not plan to retain additional first mortgage production although we have the flexibility to do so if conditions change.
We continue to grow deposits in the first quarter with period end deposits up $7.9 billion from the fourth quarter.
Average deposits were up $71.2 billion or 8% from a year ago and up $10.1 billion from the fourth quarter.
We also grew our primary consumer checking account customers by a net 2.1% from a year ago.
These are basically active customers who transact with us regularly.
We continue to lower our deposit costs with average deposit costs of 15 basis points in the first quarter down 1 basis point from the fourth quarter and down 5 basis points from a year ago.
We’ve successfully grown deposits while reducing our deposit cost for nine consecutive quarters.
Our ability to lower deposit costs while consistently growing deposits reflects our longstanding relationship focus and pricing discipline.
As shown on page nine tax equivalent net interest income was down 2% from the fourth quarter primarily due to two fewer days in the first quarter.
Without this day count impact net interest income would have been essentially flat.
Average earning assets grew $21.6 billion from the fourth quarter reflecting increases in short term investments loans and available for sale securities.
Our net interest margin declined by 8 basis points from the fourth quarter to 3.48%.
This decline was driven by three primary factors.
First our continued deposit growth caused cash and short-term investments to increase reducing the margin by 3 basis points.
As I’ve highlighted in the past our deposit growth is obviously beneficial to deepening customer relationships and does not negatively impact net investment income but it is dilutive to the NIM.
Second 3 basis points of the decline was due to the lower variable income including PCI loan resolutions and periodic dividends.
Finally 2 basis points of the margin pressure was driven by the ongoing repricing of the balance sheet in this low-rate environment net of the growth in loans and AFS securities.
Growing net investment income remains our focus which we believe we can grow even in this low-rate environment.
Noninterest income was down from the fourth quarter on lower gains on equity investments which were highlighted last quarter as being above average and the expected decline in mortgage which I’ll highlight on the next slide.
Because of the seasonality of many of our businesses and the lower day count in the first quarter it’s best to look at the year over year growth rates to demonstrate the momentum we’ve had in many of our businesses.
Deposit service charges increased 12% reflecting customer growth and product and pricing changes.
Brokerage fees and trust and investment management fees grew reflecting strong net asset flows and higher equity valuations.
Investment banking fees were up 37% from a year ago as we continue to do more business with our wholesale customers.
Card fees were up 13% with growth driven by strong new account growth and higher credit and debit card spend.
On page 11 we highlight some mortgage trends.
While mortgage revenue was down this quarter as expected we still had strong originations of $109 billion our sixth consecutive quarter of more than $100 billion in originations.
Mortgage revenue was reduced by $112 million this quarter from the retention of $3.4 billion of conforming first mortgages.
Gain on sale margins remained historically high and as we’ve been saying for the past few quarters we would expect these margins to decline.
Origination volume for the rest of the year will obviously depend on continued strength in the housing market and interest rates but we expect volumes to remain relatively strong given the improved purchase market and the benefit of the spring buying season.
In fact we’ve already seen the improved purchase market benefitting our results with originations for home purchases up 31% this quarter compared with a year ago and also many of our existing customers can still benefit from a refinance.
We added $309 million to our repurchase reserve this quarter down $70 million from the fourth quarter.
Our repurchase reserve balance increased to $2.3 billion.
Our repurchase reserve incorporates current demand levels considers all vintages and anticipates probable future expected demands.
Our servicing portfolio continued to perform better than the industry.
Our total delinquency and foreclosure rate was 6.54% in the first quarter down 50 basis points linked quarter and down from 6.89% a year ago.
Turning to expenses on page 12 first quarter expenses declined $496 million from the fourth quarter which had included higher operating losses and a contribution to our foundation.
As expected our first quarter expenses included $460 million of seasonally higher employee benefit expenses from higher payroll taxes and 401k matching as well as $199 million in annual equity awards from retirement-eligible team members.
In addition to lower operating losses and charitable contributions we reduced expenses in a number of other areas including occupancy outside professional services contract services and advertising and promotion.
We expect expenses to be lower in the second quarter reflecting lower employee benefit expenses that were seasonally higher this quarter but there will be normal growth in other areas including ongoing investments in our business and normal merit increases.
Our expense efficiency ratio of 58.3% was within our target range of 55% to 59% and was down 180 basis points from a year ago.
We’ve been focused on reducing expenses for years as you can see in the impact on our results but we still believe our expenses are too high and we can continue to improve our efficiency ratio.
Last quarter we highlighted environmentally elevated cost and we’ve made progress in reducing these costs this quarter as shown on slide 13 and we expect them to continue to decline.
We had approximately $50 million of continued costs from the independent foreclosure review this quarter and these costs will be fully eliminated next quarter.
Foreclosed asset expense was down $26 million from the fourth quarter and down $109 million from a year ago reflecting the improvement in the housing market which we expect will continue.
Mortgage revenue this quarter was reduced by $250 million for additions to our repurchasers reserve not related to current originations and was reduced by $58 million to reflect higher servicing and foreclosure costs as some foreclosure timelines continue to extend.
Turning to our segment results starting on page 14 community banking earned $2.9 billion in the first quarter up 25% from a year ago and up 2% from the fourth quarter.
Retail banking achieved a record cross-sell of 6.1 products per household up from 5.98 a year ago.
To better meet our customers financial needs and improve cross-sell we continually invest in our business including new store designs improved technology and adding bankers.
We grew platform banker FTE by 1 528 from a year ago and by 478 in just the first quarter alone.
Our credit card business continued to have strong account growth with a record of 577 000 new accounts in the first quarter up 18% from a year ago and up 31% from the fourth quarter.
Our household penetration increased to 34.1% up from 29.9% a year ago.
Credit card balances are down from the fourth quarter reflecting normal seasonality but are up 10% from a year ago reflecting strong account growth.
We also had continual momentum in our auto business and are now the industry’s leading auto lender.
We generated record auto originations in the first quarter of $6.8 billion up 10% from a year ago and up 27% from the fourth quarter.
We also successfully met the needs of our small business customers with business checking accounts up 2.9% from a year ago.
We also extended $4.2 billion of net new loan commitments to small business customers this quarter up 24% from a year ago.
Wholesale banking earned record net income of $2 billion in the first quarter up 9% from a year ago and up 1% from the fourth quarter.
Wholesale banking results continued to benefit from steady loan growth with loans having grown for 10 consecutive quarters.
Industry loan growth remains tepid but our relationship focus has enabled us to grow market share and we’ve been able to generate middle-market loan growth for 11 consecutive quarters.
This growth has occurred as we maintained our pricing and risk discipline.
Our risk and underwriting discipline is also reflected in the $8 million in loan loss recoveries in wholesale banking this quarter.
The last time wholesale was in a net recovery position was nearly seven years ago in the second quarter of 2006.
Asset management fees were up 8% from a year ago and were up 2% from the fourth quarter.
Total assets under management increased $11.4 billion from the fourth quarter with growth in all asset types.
The growth reflects the benefit from favorable markets and $4.1 billion of net inflows in the first quarter.
Wholesale banking’s continued focus on building relationships resulted in cross-sell of 6.8 products per relationship up from 6.6 a year ago.
Wealth brokerage and retirement earned $337 million up 14% from a year ago driven by strong growth in asset-based fees and higher brokerage transaction revenue.
Earnings were down 4% from the fourth quarter reflecting seasonally higher personnel expenses and lower net interest income.
Wealth brokerage and retirement has continued to successfully grow client assets benefitting from improved markets and growing market share.
WBR client assets reached a record $1.5 trillion up 7% from a year ago including strong growth in retail brokerage managed account assets up $46 billion or 16% driven by strong net flows and market performance as well as growth in average core deposits up 10% to $149 billion.
The growth in managed account assets in the first quarter will benefit our revenue from advisory fees next quarter since they are priced on a quarterly lag.
In addition WBR continued to effectively partner with retail banking to meet all the financial needs of our customers increasing cross-sell to 10.33 products per household up from 10.16 a year ago.
Turning to credit quality on page 17 we have significant improvement across our commercial and consumer portfolios.
First quarter net chargeoffs declined to 72 basis points of average loans the lowest level since the second quarter of 2006.
Losses in our commercial portfolio were only $90 million or 10 basis points of average loans.
Obviously this is very strong performance and we would expect commercial losses to remain low but probably fluctuate around these levels.
Consumer losses declined to 123 basis points with strong improvement in our real estate secured portfolios.
These portfolios should continue to benefit from our underwriting discipline and the continued improvement in the housing market.
Reflecting this improved credit performance we released $200 million in loan loss reserves in the first quarter.
Absent a significant deterioration in the economy we continue to expect future reserve releases in 2013.
Nonperforming assets decreased $1.6 billion from the fourth quarter and were down $3.8 billion or 14% from a year ago with declines in both nonaccrual loans and foreclosed assets.
Loans 90 days or more past due decreased $75 million from the fourth quarter and were down 17% from a year ago with improvement in both commercial and consumer loans.
Early-stage consumer loan delinquency balances and rates also declined significantly from the fourth quarter and a year ago with balances down 19% and with improvements in every portfolio on a linked quarter basis.
As shown on page 19 our capital levels continued to grow.
Our tier one common equity ratio moved to 10.38% up 26 basis points from the last quarter.
The ratio this quarter was negatively impacted by 25 basis points from the implementation of Basel 2.5 which became effective on January 1.
This implementation was reflected in our 2013 CCAR plan and did not impact our ratio under Basel III as its impact has historically been included in this calculation.
Our estimated tier one common equity ratio under Basel III capital proposals increased to 8.39% in the first quarter.
We purchased 16.6 million shares but issued 39 million shares in the first quarter which was seasonally high because of employee benefit plan issuances.
Our 2013 capital plan included an increase in common stock repurchases compared with our 2012 repurchases.
Our capital plan also included a $0.30 per share second quarter dividend which we will recommend to our board at our meeting this month.
This would be an increase of 36% over the second quarter dividend last year and a 20% increase over our first quarter dividend this year which we had increased to $0.25 a share.
Our diversified model provides us with many opportunities to grow earnings as highlighted by our 13 consecutive quarters of EPS growth.
On slide 20 we summarize some of the momentum we’ve realized throughout our businesses that I’ve highlighted on the call.
The market share gains customer growth increases in loans deposits assets under management positions us very well for 2013.
We also have the opportunity to further reduce expenses benefitting from improvement in credit and deploy liquidity prudently to meet loan demand or to invest.
In addition we believe that the housing market will continue to improve which will not only increase economic growth for our country but should benefit our revenues reduce environmentally elevated expenses and lower losses in our real estate secured portfolios.
In summary we had exceptional results this quarter earning more than we’ve ever earned in the history of Wells Fargo.
Our EPS grew by 23% from a year ago and we reduced expenses by 5%.
Pretax preprovision profit increased 2% and credit continued to show significant improvement with losses down 41% and total chargeoffs declining to 72 basis points.
ROA grew to 1.49% within our targeted range of 1.3% to 1.6% and ROE increased 13.59% also within our targeted range of 12% to 15%.
We continue to grow our capital levels while returning more capital to our shareholders by increasing our dividend and continuing to buy back our shares.
We’ll now open up the call for questions.
[Operator instructions.]  Our first question will come from the line of Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
My first question John is on your capital priority.
It’s clear that the dividend is on top of the list and your yield is clearly best in class.
However I wonder how you think about weighing your buyback opportunities versus strategic opportunities for acquisition.
Because on one hand most of your shareholders are clamoring for more buyback and to actually see shares outstanding the count reduced but on the other there are not a lot of banks that have your currency.
So I guess if you could give us an insight into how you’re thinking and weighing these issues.
And additionally does the trajectory of mortgage have anything to do with favoring one strategy over the other? We have stated publicly and I know you know this that our payout ratio we have targeted 50-65%.
I believe the first call in capital is to grow the business and we have ample capital to do that and meet those payout targets.
With respect to M&amp;A remember that the biggest users of capital on an M&amp;A side would be in the deposit side of the franchise of which of course we are at our federal statutory number or close to it.
And the acquisitions that we have talked about being interested in would be mostly bolt-on businesses to our existing portfolio suite of the kind of 80 different businesses we do here and predominantly in the United States.
So we’ve done some portfolios in the past.
We’re still interested in things around wealth help with retirement but I don’t see that as a huge draw on our capital.
This company is uniquely positioned that we’re producing terrific returns in absolute terms and in relative terms.
There’s plenty of liquidity and performance there to meet a number of goals.
Again investing in our business doing strategic bolt-ons where they make sense and returning capital to our shareholders at the kind of levels we’ve talked about.
And my follow up question was for Tim.
Speaking of liquidity I’ve already gotten a few questions in my in box regarding how high your liquidity levels remain.
And obviously deposit growth continues to be strong.
But can you give us a sense in terms of why you’re keeping it at this high of a ratio relative to your earning assets?  Is it you’re afraid of the duration risk?  Does it speak to a question mark on the duration of deposit flows?  Or is it as John alluded to warehousing some cash in order to take advantage of some of the bolt-on opportunities that could be out there? That’s a really good question because our liquidity levels are low.
We view that as a real positive for the company.
Clearly the first call on our liquidity is always going to be for our customers and we’ve seen good loan growth year over year.
Our core loans are up $50 billion.
But even with that as you point out we’ve seen very strong deposit growth.
We did deploy some of that liquidity that wasn’t need for loan growth in the first quarter at a slightly higher rate than what we’ve seen in the last year when we saw rates back up.
As you’ll recall we saw rates back up toward the end of the fourth quarter and we purchased some securities.
They dipped back down and then they backed up again throughout the quarter and we purchased $17.8 billion of MBS.
Our plan continues to be to make the right long term decisions and the risk risk-adjusted decisions in terms of how we deploy our excess liquidity.
We don’t want to significantly increase duration.
So our liquidity is up.
We view that as a positive and we’re looking forward to deploying it in the future.
Your next question will come from the line of Joe Morford with RBC Capital Markets.
Now that you’re starting to see a more sustained slowdown in mortgage applications pipeline and originations how are you thinking about the headcount in this division?  And have you begun to address some of the variable costs there?  We actually added to the number of team members in the mortgage business in the fourth quarter because we wanted to improve the customer service in the business.
And we’ve seen a reduction in the time from app to close go from about 90 days to 60 days which we view as a real positive and a competitive advantage.
The mortgage business is still very strong.
At $109 billion as we mentioned it’s our sixth consecutive quarter of originations above $100 billion.
And we started this quarter with a fairly strong pipeline at $74 billion on an absolute basis and relative to almost most quarters we’ve ever been in business.
So the business continues to be strong and as I mentioned we also saw an increase in purchase activity in the first quarter up 31% year over year.
I think the other positives in the business are we’ve now seen an extension of the HARP program and with rates rallying again we’ve got more customers that could take advantage of a refinance as well as the fact that as housing values go up there would be more customers that could potentially take advantage of a refinance.
So I think we’re very bullish on the business.
That said our expectation is that it’s probably likely that revenues and margins will come down a little bit.
All that said to the extent that it comes down further than we think we’ll adjust cost as or team has done through various cycles on a number of occasions.
So that may happen this quarter it may not.
I kind of hope it doesn’t happen because it means revenues will continue to be growing so that will be nice.
I guess along those lines too what about other opportunities to sustain origination volumes just given some of the capacity issues you’ve had in recent quarters?  Maybe perhaps more proactively marketing to tap into some of this pent up demand? I think that’s a really good point and the way that our team thinks about it and one of the reasons we want to make sure that we’re adequately staffed is that we do view the purchase market as a big opportunity and so that as refinancing volume comes down which it’s come down over the last few quarters we have our sales folks out there and our bankers out there being more proactive with our customers.
That’s a great point Tim.
This really plays to our strength our One Wells Fargo working as a team.
You know we have 30 000-plus bankers in our stores.
Not every one of our customers who call us their bank has their mortgage with us and we’ve kept our relationships with our realtor friends and our builder friends during the big refi time and this is really where it pays off.
And in Tim’s comments he mentioned that purchase volume is up 31% year over year so that’s really important for us.
Your next question will come from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
I was wondering if you could elaborate a little bit Tim on the factors that helped keep the mortgage gain on sale flat at very healthy levels this quarter?  And what will be the puts and takes on that going forward if you have any outlook there? Good question because at 2.56% it’s historically high and really right on top of what we saw in the fourth quarter.
Recall that our accounting convention is to recognize most of the gain on sale when we book the loan and so the primary secondary spread changes in the quarter and rate movements was really beneficial.
I think in terms of outlook let me throw some numbers at you and then you can conclude what you think the right gain on sale margin might be.
If you look over the last four years and I’m going to use some yearly averages the highest average we had was not surprisingly in 2012 which was 2.33%.
The lowest average that we had which was in 2011 was 1.61%.
And so when you step back and look at 2.56% I think it’s reasonable as we said in the fourth quarter to assume that the gain on sale is going to come down.
My guess is it will probably end up somewhere in the range of between 1.61% and 2.33%.
But I don’t know exactly where it’s going to be within that range.
In terms of the mortgage put backs at what point will you know it’s okay to start using some of that reserve.
With the credit we could see when the inflows flow and you start to see chargeoffs come down and [unintelligible].
On the put back front when do you start maybe consuming or stop needing to add to that reserve? Well I hope it’s sooner rather than later and I don’t know for sure but when we think about our mortgage repurchase reserve we not only look at what the current demands are but also what expected demands are.
And so it has come down now for the last three or four quarters which we’re pleased with.
But we just haven’t seen that yet.
We need to be very comfortable that not only current demands but also future expected demands are going to come down.
Hopefully it will be in the next few quarters.
You know John an improving housing market sure is a good sign regarding that issue.
It’s not the only thing that influences it but that’s good news.
And Tim one quick follow up on the share count issue.
You know that shareholders are hoping to see the share count come down and it hasn’t yet and we know in 2013 your plan involves more buybacks.
So I guess the question is does it also involve more issuance?  Or do you hope to kind of have the same issuance as you did last year such that your net share count would come down this year given that you’ve done more buybacks? I certainly appreciate that share count is a big focus.
Candidly earnings per share is a bigger focus for us and we’ve been pleased to be able to grow that for the last 13 quarters.
I think that when you think about the fact that last year we repurchased 120 million shares the likelihood - again this is a function of our share price that we repurchase shares at - the likelihood is that we will probably repurchase more shares than we did last year and probably repurchase more shares than we issue.
And we’ll know in a year.
But again our primary focus is going to be growing earnings per share.
But make no mistake our capital plan calls for an increase in total share repurchase dollars versus what we did last year.
And we are going to be repurchasing our shares at a greater rate this year than last.
And one quick follow up on somebody said January I think you said that in January you hope to grow net interest income dollars even though it’s a tough environment and you’ve got some pressure on spreads and things like that.
You’re focused on the net interest income dollars and you’re having some earning asset growth.
I know in the first quarter you had day count pressuring the NII dollars but do you still hope to grow that in 2013? Yes we did.
I think that when you look at net interest income we could have had the same conversation a year ago and had the same concerns and they would have been absolutely valid.
But last year we were able to grow our net interest income by over $500 million.
And our expectation is that we should be able to grow it this year.
Again it’s harder to see this quarter because of the two fewer days but if you step back and look at the last three quarters you can see that notwithstanding the decline in net interest margin that the net interest income has more or less bottomed at about $10.6 billion.
Your next question will come from the line of Matt O’Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Just following up on the net interest income dollar question as you think about the relationship of balance sheet growth and the NIM percent do we get an acceleration in the balance sheet growth?  Or do we get less NIM pressure to drive those dollars higher?  How would you envision that playing out? Well recall that the primary driver for the decline in the net interest margin just look over the last three years 12 quarters.
The decline has been 79 basis points.
Almost three-quarters of that decline has been driven by the fact that deposits are growing.
Again we view that as a very positive sign for the long term growth of the company.
When you pull that out that net differential is really the decline in overall margin.
So my bet is that if we see further net interest margin decline it’s probably more likely going to be driven by deposit growth than by margins.
But there’s no question that the net interest margin in this interest rate environment as the balance sheet reprices continues to be under pressure.
But again let me emphasize we believe that we can grow net interest income just like we did last year year over year even in this environment.
And then separately the chargeoffs came down sharply and you commented both on the commercial piece and kind of broadly speaking on the consumer.
But the level that we’re at on the real estate related areas in the consumer is this kind of a clean level or did some of the up-fronting of charge offs in the second half of last year related to regulatory changes did that impact these numbers at all? No and I wouldn’t describe it as up fronting.
Clearly there was some OCC guidance that we had for a portion of the portfolio that we needed to address and others in the industry addressed this.
I would view this as the charge off level and the credit performance as just being terrific.
And I don’t believe that this is the bottom in terms of consumer loan losses.
Again the commercial losses are a little bit different story.
At 10 basis points it doesn’t take a lot of change to increase those or even decrease them a little bit.
But in terms of consumer loan losses at 123 basis points our guess is that assuming the economy continues to improve and assuming that we’re going to continue to see an improvement in the residential housing market which we think’s going to happen we should continue to see a decline.
And then just last clarification.
You talked about the tax rate bouncing up a little bit.
What number should we be using for the rest of the year? Well I don’t know what the number’s going to be.
We just wanted to make sure that you all didn’t use the tax rate in the first quarter and then just annualize it.
I think it will be closer to more historical levels that we’ve seen in other quarters or other years where we haven’t had some tax benefit like we had in the fourth quarter.
Okay so maybe 32-33% if I look at the last three years? Yeah that’s a reasonable range.
Your next question will come from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
You alluded the purchase mortgage market kind of stepping up but isn’t the scale kind of tough just given how much of your originations are refis right now?  I guess if we look at let’s say projections to the industry how should we think about your market share and what that would mean for originations for the balance of the year? I think you make a very fair point and we didn’t mean by pointing out that purchase money activity was up 31% year over year that that in and of itself is going to take the place of the decline in refinance volume.
Because as we’ve said and you’ve seen in our numbers that our total mortgage volumes are coming down.
I think what we’re seeing is that they’re not coming down maybe as fast as some folks might have thought because of the improvement in the purchase money market.
I think it’s also factual that when you look at the market share that we have in the refinance market it’s higher because of the size of our servicing portfolio than it would be in the purchased money market but again that’s why we want to make sure that we have more folks in the business being proactive with our customers so that we can grow our purchase money activity.
John I don’t know if you want to comment? The way we think about this we think this is a really important consumer product and we have made investments in this business and have performed through a variety of cycles.
We happen to think now yes no question that there will be less refinancing.
A lot of people have done their refinancing.
But even in that area the average rate in our servicing portfolio is just shy of 4.7%.
The Street rate is depending on the day 100 basis points less than that.
So there is still refinance volume.
But on the purchased money side we’re going into the stronger selling season now.
We have over 6 000 banking stores with bankers who are dealing with customers every day.
We have 10 000 plus home mortgage consultants out with their relationships.
And we will get our share hopefully plus some.
And if it’s not there we can adjust quickly because we have the experience to bring our costs down and reflect that.
But remember housing is improving every day.
More people have more equity in their homes.
Americans have not lost their emotional attachment to home ownership.
It can’t be for everyone but we want to be there help as many customers as we possibly can.
We like this business a lot.
And Moshe let me just give you a couple of other numbers to put it in perspective.
A year ago our pipeline starting in the second quarter was $79 billion and now we’re at $74 billion.
And 35% of that $74 billion pipeline is purchased money activity.
And that’s an increase from about 24% a year ago.
So it is having some impact which we’re very excited about.
And the overall market the overall purchase still it’s low by historical standards.
A normal market is a pretty good market for us.
Two quick follow ups.
One is your correspondent share fell this quarter and JPMorgan reported today that the number two player there is moving up.
Can you talk about what your thought process is and maybe kind of related to the issue of whether you’re thinking about selling either actual MSRs or a servicing strip if that asset were to increase from here? The decline in share in the correspondent business there wasn’t anything in particular going on.
I think it’s just a very competitive market.
But as it relates to the MSR you probably saw this week that we did sell some reverse mortgage MSR.
I wouldn’t describe that as a strategic change in terms of our thought about the overall MSR.
That just reflects the fact that we got out of that business originating those loans a couple of years ago and we thought it was prudent to continue to reduce our servicing activity in that business.
There’s really been no change in our view of the MSR.
It’s still an important asset for the company and from time to time we may decide to sell but again I wouldn’t read too much into the sale of the reverse mortgage MSR.
Your next question will come from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
You know I don’t want to keep harping on the mortgage but we saw yesterday that HARP got extended for two years and I think you guys said publicly that you think the bulk of your HARP you’ve already originated or refinanced the bulk of your HARP.
Do you think that if there is a good solid PR program from the White House to get people off the sidelines and the two year extension do you think you could see another wave of HARP mortgages done? I don’t know if it will be another wave.
Our HARP originations in the first quarter were 10% which was down from the midteens that we saw last year.
I think this is a positive.
The HARP program has been a very successful program.
I think the numbers nationwide are over 2.2 million homeowners have been able to refinance via HARP.
So it’s been a successful program.
I don’t think it will be a new wave but continuation is very good.
And then the follow up on the securities portfolio was that actually being optimistic on the rates going up because you feel rates are going to remain relatively flat?  Or is it something where when we see rates going up we could see the portfolio grow in that category? I think if we see rates go up from here you could see us being as active as we were in the first quarter.
We’ve got a fairly on a percentage basis and also absolute levels a pretty sizable backup in the first quarter.
If you’ll recall there were some days when the 10-year was above 220 and MBS was very attractive.
And from our perspective given the amount of liquidity that we have and given that we want to maintain a pretty steady duration and we don’t want to take excessive credit risk it just makes sense to take advantage of those opportunities.
We’re not going to deploy all of it on one day but again given our liquidity to be able to deploy $17.8 billion in the quarter on an opportunistic basis was very good from our perspective.
You know as Tim mentioned I think in his comments this is really we think a strength for the company to have the kind of liquidity available.
And we make risk-return decisions every day.
And when we think it’s favorable and in our shareholders’ interest we will deploy that.
And if we don’t think the right risk-return ratio is there we’re willing to pass.
And we don’t have to do something.
But this is a source of strength.
Does it surprise you guys a little bit because I know it does me.
We’re seeing the housing market start to pick up we’re seeing home builders building homes.
But there’s still really not a lot of loan growth being created.
Do you see that changing over the next couple of quarters? Do you mean loan growth for home builders or for consumers? No just for the overall economy.
I mean that’s one of the areas of activity we’re seeing but it doesn’t seem like they’re materializing in the overall economy.
Well I wouldn’t jump to any conclusions about loan growth in the industry in the first quarter.
If you look at the HA data for the last few years the first quarter tends to be a seasonally low quarter and what I would do and again this is just me I’d take the first quarter decline for the industry and also then add to that the fourth quarter that we saw last quarter increase and probably average those together.
And remember the fourth quarter of last year was extremely high because of some of the changes and decisions that folks were making because of the potential changes in taxes and the code and so on.
So again I think what we’re seeing in the industry is a steady loan growth if you average over the last few years at about one-ish percent on a quarterly basis.
We’ve been fortunate because we’ve been able to grow at a multiple of that.
If you look at some of the drivers if you look at household formation if you look at cost of financing cost of housing there’s a lot of tailwinds a lot of favorable attributes.
Now nobody can predict what’s going to happen but if anything today there’s probably a shortage of housing on the market.
Your next question will come from the line of Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Just on your last comment shortage of housing in the market that’s a pretty powerful statement.
Is there any specific geographies that you’re seeing that in? It’s not true in every market and at every price range but when I’m out talking with realtors and customers the amount of supply especially in the lower end or starter houses there’s not a lot of supply out there.
Obviously that has some powerful implications for your business model over the next year or so as long as we keep rates low.
And I guess that’s kind of my question.
Do you feel like part of this housing improvement that we’re seeing is a function of where rates are?  Clearly at 3.7% 3.3% in that range that’s got to be fueling part of the boom here.
And to what degree are you building your business based on the current interest rate environment?  How do you protect yourself for the Fed deciding to stop QE3? I would say the housing market is as much driven by confidence and by improvements in values as it is with rates.
I don’t know of many people are on the sidelines and say “I’ll only buy a house if the rate’s 3.25% and I won’t buy at 4.25%.”  I think it’s about jobs about confidence about feeling good about where things are going.
Think about when you buy a house it’s what you make what the house costs and what your financing costs are that are the big three.
But housing is improving at different levels but virtually everywhere we see in the country.
And then the second part of your question which is related to the interest rate risk and how do we protect ourselves we’re actually positioned very well over the medium and longer term to benefit from an increase in interest rates.
Again as long as it’s not such a large increase that it negatively affects economic growth.
But we’re positioned very well and it’s one of the reasons why we continue to maintain the level of liquidity that we have.
Great and can I just follow up on one other thing?  I think you mentioned earlier on that you’re not planning on retaining any more of the conventional production as you have over the last couple of quarters.
And I guess I’m just wondering how you get to that decision.
Gain on sale coming down over the next couple of quarters I would think it would tip in favor of retaining versus securitizing but I’m sure you’re thinking of a broader range of inputs than that.
Maybe you can help us understand your logic.
That’s a good question.
Recall that the primary driver for the reason why we wanted to hold some of our first mortgage production in the third and fourth quarters of last year was because interest rates and investment alternatives given the level of liquidity were just very unattractive from our perspective if you think about where rates were in almost all categories in the third quarter and the fourth quarter last year.
That’s the primary driver not necessarily the gain on sale margin.
So as we looked at the first quarter and we mentioned this last quarter we saw the opportunity to invest because rates seemed like they were backing up and we took advantage of that rather than hold our first mortgage production.
So that’s going to be the driver.
It’s investment alternatives not gain on sale margins.
But certainly if for whatever reason rates would really rally from here and we could see a repeat of the third and the fourth quarter we would reconsider holding some of those mortgages again.
That remains an option and that’s another strength of the business.
Correct.
We don’t preclude that.
Yeah because you did get it back up obviously in rates and [unintelligible].
So you’ll be nimble is basically what you’re saying.
Correct.
As nimble as we can be.
Your next question will come from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Back to net interest income and you said that’s a focus but at least linked quarter it stunk and I know the day count and you seem pretty confident that $10.6 billion is the bottom.
And I’m just trying to figure out what would make you so confident.
Would it be anything to do with the accretable yield going forward given better credit quality?  The balance sheet repricing?  Maybe [unintelligible] 2 basis points.
You feel better there?  Or is it just really just you added all these securities opportunistically and that will play out for a full quarter and we should see that in the second quarter? Well I’m always careful not to disagree with you but I wouldn’t say that $10.4 billion of net interest income stunk.
I mean it was down but if you just added two extra days and that’s an issue with the calendar it would have been $10.6 billion.
And we actually think in the environment when you look at the entire industry that that was very good performance.
But having said that I think that the answer to your second question is it’s all of the above.
We have consistently been able to grow our loans at a multiple of what the market’s growing.
That’s number one.
And number two we’re going to continue to take advantage and deploy our liquidity when we see rates back up like we did in the first quarter and we bought $17.8 billion worth of securities.
And so again we could have had the same conversation - I think we actually did - about a year ago when we looked at where rates were and where loan growth was.
The industry was coming off a seasonal low just like it is this quarter.
And so our perspective is that we can grow net interest income and the next quarter we’ll see if we were able to do it.
But that’s our goal.
And of the securities that you put on was that mostly the latter part of the quarter the early part?  In other words do we actually see it in the numbers? Yeah that’s a good question.
Recall that when we talked about our first quarter earnings we gave some specific guidance that we had purchased some MBS at the end of December when rates backed up a fair amount.
And then you saw a rally again.
They backed up again in early January and we were purchasers.
And then it kind of went back and forth a bit and then we saw a nice backup about a month or so ago and so we were pretty active which is why the average was less than what the total purchases were.
And so you’re going to see more of the benefit of those purchases as we go through this quarter.
Got it.
And then the second question relates to the efficiency target.
You are on the upper end of your target range and there’s the article today talking about your new mini branches.
And I know you’ve talked about that in the past.
Now it seems like the execution phase.
Can you just give some sense of how many of your 6 000 branches might go to this mini form if it’s correct that they cost half as much and any other color that you can give? Sure in fact I was in Washington this last week and went by and actually toured our first neighborhood store.
You think of it as a branch.
And it’s a terrific combination of using technology and convenience both for hours and after hours so it really is a dual purpose that way.
You know our view around distribution is that it’s more of a distribution community where you have stores and ATMs and online and mobile and phones all working together.
And that’s part of the magic of how we deepen cross-sell and how we build customer loyalty.
We don’t have a plan per se that says so many of the neighborhood versus so many of traditional.
But they all work because even our millennial customers who are much more skewed towards self-service and mobile devices still want and need stores.
And in some places you can’t get a 3 000 or 4 000 square foot space where 1 000 square feet works just as well in fact better.
And so look for us to do more.
It’s a test and learn kind of mode.
And it’s going to help us grow and deepen the relationships.
Your next question will come from the line of Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
My question kind of focuses on the operating expenses and you talked about the seasonal impact.
If I kind of add those up it’s about $750 million in that number related to the seasonal uptick in first quarter.
That kind of starts to roll out as you move to the next quarter but you mentioned the merit increase.
I didn’t know how much.
If you could just give us some proportion of the $750 million that might get used up in the merit increase as you go to the second quarter.
Oh it could be a few hundred million dollars more.
I wouldn’t take that $750 million and just deduct it and say that’s going to be the second quarter.
We’re going to have an impact for merit.
I think we’re also going to continue to invest in both people as well as technology and products.
So we want to continue to grow the franchise.
So I wouldn’t just deduct that and call that our expenses for the second quarter.
And then when you look at the net chargeoff rate dropping as significantly as it did our provision number that you kind of came through with was pretty consistent with what we were expecting but the composition was so different in the sense of net chargeoffs being lower and release of a recapture of loan loss allowance being a lot less.
Did the lower net chargeoffs and improvement in nonperformers eventually start bleeding through in the recapture?  Or how do you kind of see that playing out in the sense of the magnitude going forward? We’ll I think you make a fair point and that’s one of the reasons why we reiterated that we do expect in the future to continue to see reserve releases absent some big deterioration in the economy.
So our expectation is that we will see more releases and again it’s going to be a function of the improving credit.
And we’ve seen that now consistently.
I think one of the important things to remember is that our reserve release is a relatively small part of our total earnings.
I think it’s less than 5% this quarter.
Exactly.
And lastly I just wanted to ask you about you know a $74 billion pipeline.
Typically seasonally there’s kind of a swoon in applications and activity and that starts to pick back up as we get into spring and summer.
That would be kind of a pull through that you could see originations still kind of hovering in the hundred billion dollar range given kind of your starting point is already three-fourths of the way there for the quarter.
Just thought I’d ask your thoughts there.
Well Marty I think you’re correct in that the pipeline was very strong.
It was about what we saw a year ago at this time.
And again I think that the complexion of the pipeline is a little bit different because a bigger percentage relates to purchased money activity.
I don’t know what the originations are going to be for the quarter.
I think the other thing to remember and I referred to it probably could have been a little bit clearer and that is that we have an appropriate level of staffing to take advantage of opportunities out there in the mortgage business.
That’s allowed us to reduce the application to close period from about 90 days to 60 days.
And so you can’t really see that in the numbers but that would portend some pretty good origination activity.
But in terms of what the number is going to be we don’t know for sure.
Your next question will come from the line of Greg Ketron with UBS.
A question on servicing.
I know you’ve touched on this a number of different ways but when you think about servicing going forward and where it’s valued today at around 70 basis points if you just look at the residential side of it and anticipate the rates do drift higher if you have a slowdown of prepayment speeds potentially you could see a pretty sizable writeup in MSR valuations $5-6 billion if we got back to 100-110 basis points ultimately.
Would it be your anticipation that you would recognize most of that or hedge that away as that develops?  Could that be a future source of income in terms of running the balanced mortgage model? It certainly could.
I don’t know if I would necessarily agree with the $5-6 billion but certainly we could see an increase in value of the servicing asset as rates go up.
I’d also just want to make clear that as housing values go up when you think about modeling that out that also potentially has a negative impact on the servicing value because it’s more likely that our customers could refinance as valuations go up.
So there’s a little bit of a put and take there.
But there’s no question that one of the benefits of the balanced model is that when you’ve got a servicing asset and rates go up it becomes more valuable.
So that could be a source of earnings in the future.
Okay that stuff you wouldn’t necessarily hedge away given the fact that you’re in the balanced model? We want to make sure that we’ve got the mortgage servicing asset appropriately hedged and we’re not going to speculate in interest rates in terms of how we hedge that asset because we could just as well be right as wrong.
So my guess is that we will get some benefit but it’s not as if we’re going to make a decision one morning to completely unhedged the portfolio because we think that rates are going to go up.
That would be a very very bad decision.
Let me just reiterate what Tim said here.
Part of our balanced model is we don’t speculate.
We don’t try to speculate in this business around where we think interest rates are going to go.
We could have been sitting here a year ago and said they have to be going up.
And actually they went down.
So the balanced model is more around when rates are higher we have more value in the servicing asset and when rates are lower we tend to do more gain on sale with production.
So surely those two are related to one another but we’re not in the business of taking a view on rates and then adjusting the hedge accordingly.
And then John a question for you.
At investor day last year you had spent time talking about the Wachovia franchise in the eastern U.S.
and how you had the opportunity there and as you achieved the record earnings and the positive growth and the revenues in areas such as wealth management.
Can you give us some color on how that’s progressing what kind of leverage you are receiving out of the Wachovia franchise at this point and maybe percentage of the way through that optimization? First of all I want to tip my hat to all the team members who helped make that merger the best one I’ve been around and it was the largest of course in U.S.
bank history.
And it’s so rewarding to see the activity happening in the east with adding stores adding team members in stores.
In fact if you look at productivity numbers sales per day referrals cross-sell the gap is closing rapidly.
In fact some of the best innovations and ideas we’re getting now for future growth come from our newest team members.
In fact it’s hard to distinguish east and west anymore.
It’s quite pluralistic in its performance.
So it’s hard for me to give a percentage.
I think we can get better across the franchise.
But I just couldn’t be happier with it.
And if I had to pick a percentage I’d say you know well into the final quartile of performance closing.
It’s just been that good.
And we continue to add people there incidentally.
Your next question will come from the line of Chris Mustascio with KBW.
I had a follow up on the MSR.
When you look at the MSR and the black box accounting that goes around it it certainly looks like from a historical perspective it’s undervalued.
I’m not sure we’d get back to the 150 level of loan service relative to back in 2006.
But it certainly looks undervalued relative to historical perspectives.
And I know you had looked at it as a natural hedge or a partial hedge to production activity in a balanced approach.
But what if that black box accounting creates a timing difference between when that asset is written up and when the production and gain on sale starts to fall?  If that occurs would you consider more strategic sales of MSRs rather than the kind of nonstrategic sale of the reverse mortgage portfolio you just did in order to harvest the gains that you can’t harvest from an accounting perspective? Let me just push back a little bit in that we don’t consider the accounting in and around the MSRs black box accounting.
We follow generally accepted accounting principles that are reviewed both internally and externally and we think they’re very sound.
I know there are some commentators that are out there that get confused by generally accepted accounting principles and think that they’re hard to follow but they’re not.
Having said that I think the fundamental part of your question is that when we look at the servicing business it’s a really good business.
The servicing business has been so valuable for us over the last few years but in particular it’s been very valuable over the last couple of years because of the fact that it’s put us in the position to be able to originate as many refinance opportunities as we have been which has just been terrific.
The capital implications of the MSR given the new Basel III capital rules creates an overlay over the asset itself in that it could be in certain circumstances a potential deduct to capital levels.
And that’s just something that we need to take into consideration and it’s something we think a lot about.
And as we’ve said from time to time it may make sense to consider selling some of the MSR.
We’ve sold servicing in the past we’ve sold the reverse mortgage part of the reverse mortgage MSR this last week which we were pleased with.
So that could happen from time to time but it doesn’t change our view that the servicing business is a very important business for the company and is very valuable at all times but in particular the period we’ve been through.
Thanks.
I wasn’t suggesting that you’re performing black box accounting.
The point being that the yield on that portfolio being as low as it is probably has never been lower that the inherent value of that asset over time is certainly going to be higher than what’s on the balance sheet today.
Oh completely agree.
Just wanted to clarify that’s all.
Your next question will come from the line of Brian Foran with Autonomous Research.
Just on the gain on sale outlook I recognize correspondent is a lower gain on sale than retail.
But would you expect them to come down by about the same magnitude over the course of the cycle?  Or is one channel likely to outperform the other? I think if you looked at the gain on sale historically it’s been all over the place on a comparative basis between the two channels.
My best guess is they’ll probably come down at the same level but I don’t know for sure.
And then just one follow up on kind of the general comments about housing improvement.
When we look at the pick-a-pay portfolio and where it’s marked in the accretion is there any kind of background you can give us on the home price assumptions embedded in that or just more generally if your positive view of housing comes to fruition would the pick-a-pay portfolio perform based on the current schedule accretion?  Or does that represent upside to the current schedule of accretion?  I think it represents some upside.
And we were very clear when we brought nonaccretable to accretable and updated the estimate of cash flows last year in the third quarter that if we continued to see an improvement in not only the housing market but also in terms of the performance of the underlying asset because that’s a very important part of the valuation that we could see some upside.
That didn’t happen this quarter but given the continued improvement it certainly could over the next few quarters.
As I mentioned in my comments we have a positive view sure in the near term outlook about steady gains in home sales billing activity and price appreciation.
We’re seeing that in most of the markets or frankly the lion’s share of the markets.
And when that happens good things happen here on all things related to real estate.
It’s better for our home equity portfolio for our reverse mortgage portfolio.
It’s better for production activity at the mortgage company.
So surely things are improving.
And lastly just if I read it right I think there was a sale of some of the PCI loans that kind of pulled forward the accretion.
With a rising market would you continue to sell some of the PCI loans or is that just a one-off?  We’ll look at that opportunistically.
We had a $150 million gain from that.
We find opportunities.
We surely will do what we think makes most sense for our portfolio and for our stockholders.
I think just to reinforce that we marked this portfolio four years ago and we just could not be more pleased with the performance.
And the expectations will change over time but if there’s an opportunity to pull through some of our forecasted accretion we’re going to go ahead and do that.
Your final question will come from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
I just want to ask a bigger picture expense question.
A couple of the pieces have been asked but Tim you mentioned that expenses are still too high.
We know about the seasonality that can happen from first to second and we know you’ll make adjustments against the mortgage business.
So what I wanted to try to understand is when you say that expenses are still too high what can you do to work on that underneath?  How much from [Project Compass] is still there to just recognize?  And then what areas are you actually investing in and what’s the magnitude of that investment versus what you can do to control things otherwise?  Again I think that the focus of the company is to improve our expense efficiency and so when we say that expenses are too high given the current level of revenue we think that we can improve our efficiency which is why we have that range of 55-59%.
There’s no one kind of magic change that we can make that if we can just get through a certain project that it will get us down to 55%.
It’s really a function of lots of projects all around the company.
It’s improving the efficiency of our corporate properties and all of our square footage.
It’s using technology to reduce cost in our businesses.
And so sometimes there’s some investment related to that.
It’s continuing to make sure that our folks are all in the appropriate locations.
And it’s little things.
There’s literally hundreds of projects going on right now in the company such that we’re focused on reducing cost.
So I’d love to be able to give you two big items but it’s just not really the way it works now that we’re done with the integration.
But I would also reinforce that apart and separate from the proactive projects that we have the environmental costs are continuing to come down so that we see with an improving economy particularly an improving residential mortgage business that we could see continued improvement in our environmental costs apart and separate from anything else we’re doing internally.
John I don’t know if you want to… I’d add that we are making investments and we want to continue to make those investments.
And we won’t be as I said before slavish to anything here because for example we’re doing wonderful innovative things to help customers on things mobile and tablet-wise.
We just talked a few minutes ago about our neighborhood store.
We’re making investments frankly in compliance and governance all kinds of different things.
On the other hand some things just because you did it that way for 20 years doesn’t mean you need to do it for the next 20 years.
And we’re finding different ways to improve customer service customer loyalty deepening relationships at the same time getting rid of expenses that don’t add value.
Tim mentioned a few seconds ago just space.
Four years ago we had about 115-116 million square feet.
Now we’re down to 95-98 million square feet.
It’s down 10-12%.
And yet we have more people more customers more products more services.
And I think that’s the magic here.
We continue to invest but we do all agree we can still do more.
And this is a bottoms-up exercise and it’s just part of doing business.
There’s no destination here.
This is a journey.
An adjunct to that is then just a lot of the things you just mentioned John are very much about deepening relationships with customers and improving the experience.
Are there any parts of the investment cycle that are now also paying off on a clear incremental revenue side?  Because I think that’s part of the investment process that people also want to appreciate too.
What are the investments that you’re making that you’re actively getting operating leverage off of? For example adding more bankers in stores and getting referrals to the mortgage company.
Having ATMs that give paperless receipts.
Taking paper out of stores and not having to have as many Brink’s pickups.
The way people can now buy products and services on their mobile devices and other self-service activities.
It’s a number of things that help reinforce just when where and how people want to be serviced.
There’s actually a lot of innovation going on in the industry.
More of it happens to be within creating this distribution community whether it be on the small business large business consumer side as opposed to a different whiz bang kind of product.
It’s much more about the overall service.
and availability.
And then last tiny thing just to follow up with Brian’s last question.
When you mentioned the potential for nonaccretable differences to be moved back into accretable yield is any of that potential in your outlook for improving NII this year? No not really because recall that in the third quarter of last year when we made the adjustment and removed some of the nonaccretable to accretable and also increased our expectation of cash flows even though when you totaled it up it was over $4 billion in total because the average life of the underlying loans is 12-plus years the incremental increase in terms of net interest income or net interest margin in a given quarter is actually relatively small.
It will have some impact but it’s not a primary driver for why we think net interest income can go up in this environment.
Thanks again.
We ran over a little here but thank you for your interest in Wells Fargo and for your questions.
We’re always available to you and we’ll see you next quarter at the same time.
Thank you.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I’ll be your conference operator today.
At this time I’d like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I’d now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Rowe you may begin your conference.
Thank you Regina.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf; and CFO Tim Sloan will discuss second quarter results and answer your questions.
Before we get started I’d like to remind you that our second quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at wellsfargo.com.
I’d also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today’s call that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.
Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced including the reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can also be found in our SEC filings in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website.
I’ll now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf.
Thank you Jim.
Thanks to everyone for joining us today.
Wells Fargo had a terrific quarter and has now generated 14 consecutive quarters of earnings per share growth with record earnings in the second quarter.
This consistent strong performance during our dynamic economic and interest rate environment again demonstrates the benefit of our diversified business model.
We are not dependent on any one business to generate growth.
We have over 90 businesses that are all focused on just one thing meeting our customer’s financial needs.
Our results this quarter demonstrate the momentum we have throughout for all of our businesses.
Our strong performance is broad based compared to a year-ago we earned a record $5.5 billion up 19% and grew earnings per share of 20%.
We grew pre-tax pre-provision profit by 3%.
We reduced our expenses and improved our efficiency ratio by 90 basis points to 57.3%.
Our core loan portfolio grew by $42.3 billion up 6%.
Our credit performance was outstanding benefiting from our conservative underwriting in improving economic conditions especially of housing with net charge-offs down to 58 basis points and our total net charge-off down 48% from just a year-ago.
Our strong deposit franchise which becomes even more valuable in a rising great environment continue to grow with total deposits up 10% from a year-ago while we reduced total deposit cost by 5 basis points to 14 basis points.
We achieved record retail cross-sell of 6.14 products per household.
Wholesale Banking grew their cross-sell to 6.9 products and Wealth Brokerage Retirement cross-sell increased to over 10 products – 10.35 to be exact.
We grew return on assets by 14 basis points to 1.55% and return on equity increased by 116 basis points to 14.02%.
Our capital levels continue to grow with our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under Basel III increasing to 8.54% and based on our initial review of the leverage ratio proposed – proposal issued this week; we believe our current leverage levels would exceed the well capitalized requirements at both the bank and the holding company.
Our strong earnings growth has enabled us to grow our capital levels while returning more capital to our shareholders.
In the second quarter we increased our dividends to $0.30 a share up 36% from a year-ago and we continue to buyback stock.
Before turning the call over to Tim let me conclude with some comments about my views on how the current economic and rate environment impacts Wells Fargo.
We continue to be optimistic about the improvements we’re seeing throughout the economy.
While commercial loan demand is still modest jobs are been created consumer confidence is increasing and the housing market continue to demonstrate strong momentum.
In fact in the second quarter the housing market improvement was stronger and more broad-based than it has been since before 2008.
Sales were up and residential property prices increased in by 13% across the country.
Yet affordability still remains attractive even with the increased prices and higher interest rates.
The strength in the housing market was a positive catalyst to our results in the second quarter in a number of ways including higher originations performed purchases lower environmental costs reduced repurchase reserves and improved credit quality.
Assuming the housing market state remains strong and we currently believe it will our overall results will continue to reflect these benefits.
While the economy continues it’s slow but steady improvement the current rate environment is obviously very different than it was just 90 days ago when we last announced our earnings.
We knew rates would eventually rise as we’ve been planning for a rising rate environment for sometime.
The benefit of our diversified business models is that it provides opportunities to generate earnings growth over a variety of rate environment.
Some of our businesses can actually do better in a lower rate environment and others benefit from the rising rates.
Tim will highlight the growth we’ve achieved across a number of our businesses on our call today.
We do not manage Wells Fargo based on a specific rate environment.
We manage Wells Fargo as we have for decades to satisfy our customer’s financial needs.
Rates rising for the right reason and improving economy is beneficial for our customers which then in turn benefits Wells Fargo.
Tim will now provide more details on our second quarter results.
Tim? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
My comments would follow the presentation included in the first half of our quarterly supplement starting on Page 2.
John and I will then take your questions.
As John mentioned Wells Fargo had another outstanding quarter with record earnings of $5.5 billion up 19% from a year-ago and up 7% from the first quarter.
Earnings per share grew to $0.98 up 20% from last year and up 7% from the first quarter.
We’ve now achieved 14 consecutive quarters of EPS and nine consecutive quarters of record earnings per share.
As John just mentioned the rate environment this quarter was very different from last quarter.
In fact the economic housing rate environment has differed significantly over the past 14 quarters of our earnings growth.
While the drivers of our growth have varied our consistent risk discipline and diversified business model have remained the same.
Our results this quarter compared to the first quarter clearly show the advantage of our diversity with our bottom line results benefiting from strong broad based trends including net interest income growth as we drew loans and invested in securities fee growth across a variety of our businesses reduced expenses generating positive operating leverage and improved credit and capital levels.
As you can see on page 3 our year-over-year results were also strong with growth in pre-tax pre-provision profit net income EPS both total and core loans core deposits ROA and ROE.
Our revenue diversification is highlighted on slide 4.
A 50-50 split between spread revenue and fee revenue from our diversified businesses and cross-sell activities.
Trust and investment fees were once again our largest fee category and it has been for the past five quarters.
We achieved positive momentum across many of our businesses which I'll highlight throughout the call.
Let me start by highlighting some of the key drivers of our second quarter results from the balance sheet and income statement perspective.
On page 5 you can see we had good balance sheet growth this quarter growing loans deposits and securities.
I'll provide more detail on the securities we purchased later on the call.
The decline in our provision expense this quarter reflected improvement in home prices and our overall credit performance.
Turning to the income statement on page 6 mortgage revenue was stable in the quarter and revenue growth was driven by stronger trust and investment fees and higher net interest income.
Our expenses declined as we expected primarily reflecting seasonally lower employee benefit costs.
Let me now cover our business drivers in more detail.
As shown on page 7 we continued to have solid loan growth with period end loans up $26.8 billion or 3% from the year ago and up $2 billion from the first quarter.
Loans grew even after the continued run off of our liquidating portfolio.
This portfolio has declined by over 50% since 2008 and the headwind to overall loan growth caused by this run-off has continued to slow.
In the second quarter the liquidating portfolio declined $15.5 billion from a year ago and $3.2 billion from the first quarter.
Excluding these liquidating loans our core loan portfolio grew by $42.3 billion or 6% from a year ago and was up $5.2 billion from the first quarter.
Commercial loans grew $1.8 billion in the quarter with board-based growth in C&amp;I and foreign loans.
Consumer loans grew $250 million with growth in nonconforming first mortgage loans auto and credit card partially offset by the expected run-off from liquidating and core home equity portfolios.
Deposit growth remained strong with period end deposits up $10.9 billion from the first quarter.
Average deposits were up $23.6 billion from the first quarter and up $85.8 billion or 9% from the year ago.
Average core checking and savings deposits were up 8% from a year ago.
We grew our primary consumer checking customers by a net 3.5% from a year ago up 2.1% from last quarter.
These are active checking account customers who transact with Wells Fargo regularly.
The growth we've achieved with these relationship-based customers demonstrate the strength of our deposit franchise and should generate future growth as we focus on remaining their primary bank and meeting more of their financial needs.
We continued to lower our deposit costs with average deposit costs of 14 basis points in the second quarter down 1 basis point from the first quarter and down 5 basis points from the year ago.
We've successfully grown deposits while reducing our deposit costs for 10 consecutive quarters.
As shown on page 9 we grew tax-equivalent net interest income by 3% from the first quarter.
The growth in NII was driven by securities purchases lower funding costs loan growth higher variable income as well as the benefit from an extra day in the quarter.
Average earning assets grew $31.1 billion from the first quarter reflecting increases in short-term investments loans and AFS securities.
We purchased $21 billion of AFS securities during the second quarter primarily agency MBS and we purchased an additional $6 billion of securities in the first two weeks of the third quarter.
We remained disciplined during periods of lower rates and we were prepared to deploy liquidity as rates rose.
We benefitted from this disciplined approach in the second quarter by investing in higher yield and securities.
While higher rates driven by an improving economy will be positive to our results over the long term including higher yielding earning asset growth and improving credit quality there are also some short-term effects such as lower mortgage refi volume and reduced OCI that I'll highlight throughout the call.
Higher rates impact our businesses in different ways and in different times which reinforces the benefit of our diversified model.
Our net interest margin declined by 2 basis points from the first quarter to 3.46%.
This decline was driven by three primary factors.
First our continued deposit growth caused cash and short-term investments to increase reducing the margin by 6 basis points.
As I've highlighted in the past our deposit growth has little impact on net interest income but it is dilutive to the net interest margin.
Offsetting this decline by 2 basis points was higher variable income including higher PCI loan resolutions and periodic dividends.
This variable income is obviously lumpy and can increase or decrease in any quarter.
Finally the net impact of re-pricing and balance sheet growth improved the margin by 2 basis points largely due to the benefit of the growth in the AFS portfolio and reduced funding costs.
While margin was relatively stable this quarter it is still reasonable to expect continued net interest margin pressure.
Despite a decline in total fee income in the quarter many of our businesses demonstrated strong momentum including deposit service charges up $34 million from the first quarter benefitting from seasonality and account growth.
Trust and investment fees up $292 million on strong investment banking fees and higher retail brokerage asset based fees.
Card fees grew 75 million on credit and debit card account growth and higher purchase volume.
Commercial real estate brokerage commissions grew $28 million with strong activity for both private and public deals.
Overall noninterest income was down slightly from the first quarter on lower gains from deferred compensation plan investment income which is P&amp;L neutral weaker customer accommodation trading and lower fees including the lower gain on the sale of the PCI loans.
Our mortgage business continued to generate strong results in the second quarter with revenue up modestly from the first quarter as highlighted on page 11.
Mortgage originations were $112 billion our seventh consecutive quarter of more than a $100 billion in originations reflecting the benefit of the housing market improvement and low interest rates.
As rates rose late in the quarter applications for home purchases remained strong but refi application volumes declined as expected.
We still had a relatively large unclosed pipeline at the end of the quarter but refi volume is obviously very sensitive to rates.
Refis were 56% of originations in the second quarter down from 69% in the first quarter.
We managed through many refi cycles in the past and we will adjust the size of our business based on production volumes through this cycle.
Gain on sales margins declined to 2.21% and with the increase in mortgage rates we would expect further declines in our margins and originations.
Expenses declined from seasonally high first quarter levels as shown on page 12.
This decline was driven by a 4% reduction in personnel expenses reflecting lower employee benefit expenses due to the first quarter seasonally high payroll taxes and 401(k) matching.
These declines were partially offset by higher salaries reflecting annual merit increases and higher revenue-based incentive compensation expense from strong results in capital markets WBR and mortgage.
We also had increases in other expense categories primarily driven by our continued investment in our business to drive future growth including project spending for product improvement and system enhancements higher advertising and promotion expense driven by seasonality and a new campaign launched in the second quarter.
Operating losses increased $131 million in the second quarter primarily from litigation accruals related to various legal matters and we also experienced increased costs associated with regulatory and compliance requirements.
Our focus on reducing expenses while investing in our businesses to generate revenue growth is reflected in our efficiency ratio declining to 57.3% in the second quarter.
We expect our efficiency ratio to remain within our target range of 55% to 59%.
As John mentioned at the start of the call the recovery in the housing market is driving significant improvement in a number of areas including some of our environmentally elevated costs.
As highlighted on page 13 in the second quarter most of these costs were significantly below what they had been over the past few years.
We got a nominal amount of cost associated with the independent foreclosure review this quarter of customer call volumes following the distribution of remediation checks.
The improvement in real estate values helped to reduce foreclosed asset expenses by $49 million compared to the first quarter and by $143 million from a year ago.
Mortgage revenue this quarter was reduced by $25 million for additions to our repurchase reserve not related to card originations which is the lowest build we’ve had since prior to 2008.
Outstanding and purchase demands were relatively stable compared with the first quarter and new demands emerged consistent with our expectations.
However not all elevated costs are behind us.
Mortgage revenue is reduced by $82 million to reflect higher servicing and foreclosure costs as foreclosure timelines continue to extend especially in judicial foreclosure states.
Turning to our segment results starting at page 14 community banking earned $3.2 billion in the second quarter up 28% from a year ago and up 11% from the first quarter.
Retail banking achieved a record cross-sell of 6.14 products per household up from 6 products a year ago.
To support sales and household growth we grew platform bank or FTE by approximately 1 900 from a year ago.
Our credit card business continued to have strong account growth with the record 594 000 new accounts in the second quarter up 16% from a year ago.
Our household penetration increased to 35% up from 31% a year ago.
Credit card balances were up 3% from the first quarter and up 9% from a year ago due to strong transaction volumes and account growth.
We also had momentum in our auto business with record originations in the second quarter of $7.1 billion up 4% from the first quarter and up 9% from a year ago.
Our continued focus on serving our small business customers generated a 2.7% growth in business checking accounts from a year ago and we extended $9.3 billion of new loan commitments to small business customers during the first half of the year up 25% from a year ago.
Wholesale banking earned $2 billion in the second quarter up 7% from a year ago and down $41 million from the first quarter.
Wholesale banking generated record revenue of $6.1 billion.
Investment banking fee growth was strong driven by higher equity underwriting credit originations and loan syndication fees.
Investment banking results included a 34% increase in the year-to-date revenue from commercial and corporate customers.
This relationship focus also benefited treasury management as revenue grew 12% from a year ago benefiting from better penetration of our existing customers.
Wholesale banking’s cross-sell reached 6.9 products per relationship up from 6.8 a year ago.
Wholesale banking results continue to benefit from steady loan growth with loans having grown for a 11 consecutive quarters.
The average loans increased 6% from a year ago with growth nearly all portfolios including asset back finance capital finance commercial banking commercial real estate corporate banking and government and institutional banking.
Credit quality remained strong with net recoveries in the second quarter reflecting the improvement in our economy and our risk in underwriting discipline.
Wealth Brokerage and Retirement earned a record $434 million up 27% from a year ago and up 29% from the first quarter reflecting the success of our core business strategy of growing asset based relationships and the benefit from the improvement in the markets.
Revenue grew 10% from a year ago reflecting strong growth in asset based fees and higher brokerage transaction revenue.
Retail brokerage managed account assets reached the record $331 billion up 19% from a year ago driven by strong net flows and market performance.
WBR had strong loan growth with average loans up 4% from the first quarter driven by non-conforming mortgages.
WBR continued to effectively partner with retail banking to meet the financial needs of our customers increasing cross-sell to 10.3 products per household.
Assets referred from community banking to WBR grew over 25% from a year ago based on first quarter results.
This partnership is a great example of how our businesses work together to meet the financial needs of our customers.
Turning to credit quality on Page 17 we had continued improvement across our commercial and consumer portfolios.
Second quarter net charge-offs declined to 58 basis points of average loans.
Losses in our commercial portfolio were only $44 million or 5 basis points of average loans.
Consumer losses declined to 101 basis points.
We had especially strong improvement in our commercial and residential real estate portfolios.
These portfolios are now providing a tailwind for our credit performance compared to the headwind they provided when the real estate market was weaker.
Reflecting these improvements our provision expense declined $567 million from the first quarter and included $500 million in reserve releases compared with the release of $200 million in the first quarter and $400 million from a year ago.
We continue to expect further reserve releases absent a significant deterioration in the economic environment and while we don’t know what our release will be in the third quarter the favorable condition to grow this release for this quarter have not dissipated.
The recovery in the housing market also benefited our expected losses in the PCI portfolio.
This quarter the accretable yield balance increased by a net $2.1 billion which included $1.6 billion increase in expected cash flows and $876 million reclassification primarily from our pick-pay portfolio.
This re-class did not impact second quarter results but will be accreted into income over the remaining life of these loans.
In addition to lower charge-offs and provision expense non-performing asset also improved with MPAs down $1.8 million from the first quarter and down $3.8 billion or 15% from a year ago.
Loans 90 days or more passed due decreased $206 million from the first quarter and were down 15% from a year ago with improvement in both commercial and consumer loans.
Early stage consumer loan delinquency balances and rates also declined from the first quarter and from a year ago.
Earnings are the primary driver of capital growth for Wells Fargo.
As shown on Page 19 our Tier 1 common equity ratio included 10.73% up 34 basis points from last quarter.
Our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under Basel 3 which reflects our interpretation over Basel 3 capital rules adopted July 2 increased to 8.54% in the second quarter.
OCI negatively impacted the ratio by 24 basis points in the quarter due to the increase in interest rates.
Because of our strong earnings growth we grew capital even with the impact on the increasing rates.
We expect reductions to unrealized securities gains when rates rise and this is one reason why as we discussed over a year-ago we're targeting a capital buffer of approximately 100 basis points.
And just this week as John mentioned the U.S.
regulatory agencies issued a supplemental leverage ratio of proposal.
Based on our initial review we believe our current levels -- leverage levels would exceed the well capitalized requirements at both the bank and holding company.
We increased our second quarter dividend to $0.30 per share a 20% increase over the first quarter dividend and purchased 26.7 million shares in the second quarter and executed a $500 million forward contract that is expected to settle in the third quarter for approximately 13 million shares.
Including the shares under the forward contract our share count would have been relatively flat for the quarter offsetting 40 million shares issued during the quarter primarily related to profit sharing and match contributions to 401(NYSE:<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/K" title="Kellogg Company">K</a>) plans and team members exercising option.
With many opportunities to generate growth at Wells Fargo on Slide 20 we summarized the demonstrative momentum we have throughout our businesses that I’ve highlighted on the call.
In each of our businesses we have opportunities for growth reflecting the expanding needs of our customers.
This customer account and balance growth along with increased cross-sell with help drive our future results and reflects the benefits of our diversified model.
In summary we had a very good quarter with strong broad based improvement and demonstrative momentum across many of our businesses.
This included growth in loans deposits net interest income and fee growth across many of our businesses.
We reduced expenses and benefited from a continued improvement in credit quality that reflected our conservative underwriting and the strengthening economy especially the rebound in housing.
Our ROA and ROE continue to grow and we grew capital levels while returning more capital to shareholders.
We will now open up the call for your questions.
(Operator instructions).
Our first question will come from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Hi good morning.
Good morning John.
Morning.
Tim just a question on liquidity.
Could you tell us where you are on the liquidity coverage ratio relative to your understanding of what will be required of you in the new regulatory rules? Yeah.
John it's a good question.
One of the challenges is that the rules haven't been finalized and similar to the Basel III capital rules from the point that which they were originally proposed to where they were finalized there was a fair amount of discussion in change.
I would tell you that we have adequate capital to operate Wells Fargo.
Having said that we are going to continue to work with the regulators in terms of those interpretations.
There may be some incremental amount of liquidities that we need to raise but we certainly – it's certainly that we are focused on because liquidity risk is a key risk for the company.
But given over $1 trillion of deposits we have and given the experience we have in terms of operating in different environments again we think we've got adequate liquidity.
We may need to raise a little bit more but it shouldn't be material for the company.
Okay.
So it's a factor in – as you think about the pace at which you look for your cash you mentioned buying some securities here today.
Is that a factor in how you think about deploying your liquidity? No it's not a big factor at all John.
Again to me it's much more important to think about the liquidity needs for operating the business as it relates to how much we want to invest in securities because the first call for any of our liquidity has always got to be to our customers in terms of loan demand.
But it's not a primary driver in terms of the pace of activity.
The primary driver in terms of the pace of our investment activity has been there over the last year.
We've been in this very low rate environment and turned the clock back a year ago we had a lot of excess liquidity there was a lot of concern that we were going to be in low rates for a while and there was a view that we weren't investing fast enough.
We wanted to stay disciplined then.
That was the primary driver.
Just like today one of the primary drivers for why we're investing more in our securities portfolio is because we think given the rate back up the returns are much more attractive.
Yeah.
And we did see a benefit there in the degree of net interest margin compression but you still have an expectation for some continued margin compression.
What are the drivers there Tim? And then in terms of NII dollars do you still expect to grow the NII dollars from the current level? Okay.
So on the net interest margin I don't think the drivers have really changed that much.
As you recall if you look at our net interest margin decline which we've had one over the last year 14 quarters the primary driver for the decline has been the fact that we've been growing deposits which long-term – for the company financing that.
Within a quarter we can have some variability based upon the variable income which was positive this quarter but last quarter was negative.
The balance sheet continues to re-price a bit.
So the factors really haven't changed because we haven't gotten to a point that the balance sheet has completely re-priced.
So we could continue to see some continued compression in the net interest margin.
The underlying factors really haven't changed.
In terms of net interest income and our goal is to grow net interest income over time.
What happens in a quarter-by-quarter basis I just don't know for sure because there's a lot of factors.
We had a lot of positive factors that drove our net interest income this quarter which I think was absolutely terrific.
Again I don't know if that means we're going to grow net interest income in the third quarter but over time I believe that we can grow net interest income and this quarter I think we've demonstrated our ability to do that.
Okay.
And switching gears over to the mortgage revenues the gain on sale margin of the 221 you mentioned hold up better than expected.
What were the factors there? And is there any framing you can do for us on how much pressure that market could experience as you move to the next several quarters? Yeah John I think that's a very fair observation and candidly I think the mortgage sale margin has held up better not just for the last quarter but for the last year than I think anybody in the business or in industry would have expected.
That said it has come down and it came down over 30 basis points in the quarter.
And our best guess is that we are seeing pressure in the gain on sale margin and the gain on sale margin has significantly declined.
Recall that last quarter we framed the gain on sale margin variability over last few years if you annualize it the low end was 160 and the high end again on an annualized basis was 220.
We've been at the high end.
We think we're going to start to move down from there.
So I think there is going to be pressure.
I do not believe you're going to see a 2.21% gain on sale margin I think it's more likely to be lower.
But again it's really a function of the competitive environment which we think has been very rational as we've gone through this cycle as well as the rate environment.
Recall that our best guess in the second quarter was that originations were going to be a little bit lower than the first quarter but in fact originations were up in the second quarter because rates stayed low for a longer period of time.
Rates are now up and that's going to affect originations for sure.
So there's a lot of variability but to put it very bluntly we think that the gain on sale margin is going to decline and it will decline somewhere in the range of what we've seen over the last few years but it is going to decline.
But John as you know and Tim's absolutely right it will decline and margins will be under some pressure but we have this wonderfully balanced business within the business.
In other words when rates increase refis drop margins come in because there's more competition but then you have a servicing portfolio and that does better.
So there's balance within this business and there's also a flush down in the broad distribution and diversity within the company.
So some businesses do better some do not as well when rates rise.
Okay.
Thanks John.
Tim one follow-up on that.
Could you remind us of the mechanics by which the higher servicing income can work its way through the income statement and why didn't – it didn't seem like we saw any of that start this quarter with the big move into 10-year.
What will trigger kind of offsetting balance on the servicing side where the income then will see that start to rise? Yeah John points out over time I think that there is some balance in the business on the revenue side because of the fact that servicing income tends to be a little bit less volatile.
We should see some benefit in terms of servicing income increasing as the housing industry continues to improve.
As we pointed out we did reduce the value of this servicing for some elongation of some foreclosure timelines.
Over time that will dissipate.
And then we'll continue to get the carry in the underlying servicing income.
Our hedge ratio is pretty high so it's not like we're vetting the farm on or the stagecoach on an increase in rates in the servicing portfolio.
We'll see some benefit there but I think it's also really important to remember that there will also be some expense trade-offs in the mortgage business itself.
If it turns out that originations are down then it's immediately in the quarter if you get a benefit from the revenue-based compensation the commissions coming down and then to the extent that that volume continues then you also make adjustments that tend to be on a lag basis on a quarterly basis in terms of some of your other expenses.
Are you starting to make those adjustments based on what you're seeing in the pipeline and the outlook given rates? John we're making adjustments all the time.
The fact of the matter is we entered the quarter with actually a pretty strong pipeline of $63 billion which was only down 10% 15% from the end of the quarter.
But there's no question that to the extent that we continue to see a decline in the pipeline that we will make adjustments.
And so you can assume that we will begin to make some of those adjustments this quarter.
Got it okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Erika Penala with Bank of America.
Good morning.
Good morning Erika.
My first question is a follow-up to John's last.
We heard another mega bank today say that if loan rates stay where they are that the mortgage market could shrink to 30% or 40% in the second half of the year.
Do you agree with that statement for your company given what you’re seeing in purchase trends? And additionally could you quantify if that number is correct? How much of the expenses can come up proportionate to that 30% to 40% decline? Yeah it’s a fair question.
I don’t think anybody really knows what the volumes in the mortgage business are going to be.
I think one of the challenges for anybody in making that estimate today is that the complexion of the originations is really changing.
When you look at the percentage of refi volume versus purchase money volume that we had in the first quarter of this year for example it was about 1/3 purchase money and about 2/3s refi volume.
As the housing industry continues to improve and as we’ve got it – went into the spring selling season you saw that mix shift in sales was more like 55 44 45 or whatever and what that means is that a larger portion of your originations are coming from the purchase portion of the business.
So I think it is a fact that refinance volume is certainly very much impacted by rates but also we’re seeing now rates at the long end start to come down 10 basis points just in the last few days and so we don’t think – we don’t know for sure where volume is going to be.
We believe it's going to be lower in this quarter and one of the things that we’ve learned in the mortgage business is it's probably not a good thing to think six months out or nine months out because there can be so much variability.
We think volumes going to be down but whether it’s going to be 30% to 40% I just don’t know.
As it relates to expenses again the timeline generally is that the revenue based compensation declined immediately and then to the extent we have a continued origination reduction then you bring – you start to reduce some of your expenses that tends to occur on a lag quarter basis.
But at the end of the day we still believe that we can continue to have good margins in the business and to keep the efficiency ratio above where it is because also remember that one of the other important things that’s going out into business if you got an improvement in the underlying housing industry so that your environmental related costs hopefully will coming down including foreclosures at the same time.
One of the thing that – I know that we should not forget now we went through this a lot – many times but we have 6 200 stores 30 000 or 40 000 personal bankers that refer business in so when rates rise and its more of a purchase money business we have all folks on deck helping serve customers.
And we still have tons of our customers who are interested in buying homes and moving and so forth who are our customers but do their mortgage business in other places.
So we have still lot of opportunity to capture purchase money business which is still not at the levels it was pre-prices.
So there is lots of activity going on there.
Surely the refinance volume is going to come down significantly if rates continue to stay at high.
But as Tim mentioned I don’t know what rates will be.
90 days ago we wouldn’t have talked about what we’re talking about today.
Things change very quickly in this business.
Yes Erika let me reinforce again.
As you think about the third quarter and you think about the volume that we’ve seen over the last couple of years we’ve been very fortunate to see quarters in which volume is been above the $100 billion.
We just don’t think that we’re going to see $100 billion in mortgage volume given the current rates today in the third quarter.
Got it.
Speaking of how Wells benefit as housing recovers I know that you’re frustrated by the obsession on your margin.
But as I think about slide 26 in your deck it seems like you have $876 million of reclassification to accretable yield and $1.6 billion of additional expected cash flows that could be helpful to your margin over time.
Should we think of the pick-a-pay portfolio similar to how we think about reserve relief for the entire company in that as housing gets better you could release some of the markets into net interest income which would benefit or alleviate some of the concerns on margin.
There is no question that that the key drivers for the improvement in the – or the reclassification or housing prices as well as the underlying credit performance within that portfolio and those are very similar to the drivers for the improvement that we’ve seen in our first mortgage portfolio and our home equity portfolios.
In terms of the impact I’d love to tell you that when – if you re-class the 876 we get an immediate impact that’s not the way it works.
It occurs over the life of the loan.
There will be some positive impact and you’ve seen that and I’m hopeful if the current trends continue and this isn’t the last time that we seen a reclassification I can’t promise you that it's going to be the case.
But it will provide some positive benefit over time.
But again we’ve got to make sure that we put it in the right context because our best estimate is the weighted life of that portfolio is still about 14 years.
Okay.
Got it.
And just if I could sneak one more in just a clarification follow-up to John’s question on the LCR.
Your cash balances keep growing but in other calls you’ve mentioned that you have – something like $50 billion of excess cash.
Is that true still relative to how we should think about Basel III LCR compliance? And I guess if the main message is potentially the cash back until continue to build from here? Yeah I think that the challenge we all have including where we’re in terms of the liquidity coverage ratio is the rules haven’t been finalized.
If you would tell me what the final rules are then I could tell you whether or not we’re too much or not enough for the write or whatever.
What I do know is that we believe that we have additional ability based on how we’re running Wells Fargo based on our interpretations of the LCR to invest some of our liquidity in securities but more importantly we have it ready for our customers when they want to borrow money.
That doesn’t mean that we made – now that raise liquidity when some of the rules are finalized.
But we don’t believe and we believe that that’s possible to do without a significant impact or material impact in terms of running the company.
But again I think it will be premature to conclude what the final rules like – look like because they haven’t been finalized.
Okay.
Thanks for taking my questions.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
Good morning Matt.
Hopefully just a couple of quick ones here.
You mentioned the trust investment fees good strength in both the brokerage and investment banking which of course you now split out.
On the broker side is that just the higher market levels or are you seeing some inflows there as well? I did notice that the deposits in that segment were down a couple of billion so I’m just wondering if there is some flows coming into the brokerage area? Well I think it’s all the above Matt.
There is no question that we’ve been benefited as everybody in the industry has been benefited by the improving market the improving equity markets and the fact that retail investors want to be part of that business.
We did see some movement from deposits to investing in the market.
We think that’s a good thing.
We’ve been waiting for that for a while but we also grew our customer levels too.
And Matt the other thing this is a big emphasis for the Company.
David Carroll and his great team are working with Carrie Tolstedt and her team and Dave Hoyt and within the company this is a one Wells Fargo working together.
So not only the markets help us we’re also putting a big emphasis on this.
We think it’s a big growth opportunity for this Company.
And then just separately on the mortgage servicing rights I know you’ve talked about potentially testing the waters to sell and sorry if I missed it but did you sell any this quarter and thoughts going forward in terms of potentially selling them.
I would think they’re worth a little bit more now than two months ago? We hope that’s the case Matt.
I think that as you know we entered into a transaction to sell our – a portion of our reversed mortgage portfolio in the first quarter.
We didn’t have any sales of MSRs this quarter.
But we will continue to look at selling MSRs we think that’s prudent risk management that the primary driver for doing that is not because we feel like there is pressure as it relates to capital.
But I wouldn’t be surprised if we moved forward and executed a sale of MSRs this quarter and next.
Okay.
That's it for me.
Thank you.
Thanks Matt.
Your next question comes from the line of R.
Scott Siefers with Sandler O'Neill.
Hi Scott.
Hi Scott.
Good morning.
John I guess I was just hoping you could expand kind of generally on the comments you made in your prep remarks early on about the housing market.
I guess what I'm thinking about is high rates impact affordability but you certainly seem pretty optimistic about the prospects for the housing market and continued improvement.
So what trends are you seeing generally particularly I guess most recently just since you guys see so much of the mortgage and customarily the housing market that makes you keep this sustained optimism? Sure.
So first of all I think I had mentioned before that we look at 400 or so MSAs Metropolitan Statistical Areas and we have a unique and pretty grounded way of seeing real estate across the country.
And the deal it's better everywhere or going on – in some cases two years surely in the past year and it's been stronger in some places than even probably we had expected.
Some of the states that were hardest hit Nevada Florida Arizona California are showing huge or very large price appreciation kinds of numbers.
Also if you look at – and yes rates have gone up but if you were in the mortgage market before 2000 you know that these are unbelievably good rates.
My first mortgage was at 8.5% my second one was 11.5% and I thought those were great rates at the time.
So affordability still is there household formation continued to happen in the last four or five years where people weren't buying so there's a lot of pent-up demand.
The three important issues to a home purchase what you make what the house costs and what's the financing costs? One of those is still close to 40 50-year record lows compared to rental.
Owning a home makes economic sense.
It surely depends on where you want to live and how long you want to live there and so forth.
So there is just strength there.
And it improves customer confidence.
The thing I hear most about when I'm out in the marketplace is the lack of inventory.
So we are expecting that prices will continue to improve probably not at the level they have in the past but housing sure has strength to it.
So I don't know what's going to happen to rates all the time but when housing improves it's good for Americans it's good for competence and which in turn is good for the financial services industry and Wells Fargo.
All right I appreciate the color.
And then I guess Tim sort of along the same lines.
You're consumer credit improvement I guess we kind of knew would improve.
I think the magnitude was probably a little better than I would have anticipated.
If we were to say stay at this sort of level of housing I mean is there a point where you need continued improvement to impact the sustainability of such strong consumer trends or are we there yet or how are you thinking about that dynamic? Yeah I think it's a fair question Scott.
The underlying trends that in fact John referred to are still improved.
And so it's hard to imagine improvement not continuing.
Whether it continues to improve at the same rate I don't know.
I think we've continued to be surprised by how housing has positively impacted our results.
I think also it's important to remember that particularly when you think about the reserve release that there were some overwriting factors that impacted the reserve release over the last few quarters including the fact that we had the OCC guidance that impacted the third and fourth quarters of last year and also the potential for the impact from the damage of Hurricane Sandy that's been working its way through the system.
But again I think the fundamentals for housing are strong.
We have a large first mortgage and second mortgage portfolio that tends to be the portfolio where we have the disproportionate share of our losses even though they improved the consumer losses improved just a touch over 1% this quarter.
So we're feeling pretty good about the improvement.
Scott I'll just add one more thing.
Housing is uniquely different than any other consumer asset class.
When housing improves people feel better.
I mean two-thirds of Americans or so own a home.
When housing improves it improves the confidence.
People spend more.
The multiplier effect on buying washers and dryers and other consumer goods is just – it's just very special around housing.
So when housing gets better it really lifts all [bolts] on the consumer side.
Okay.
Well guys I definitely appreciate the help.
Thank you.
Thank you Scott.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hi.
Good morning.
First question Tim that other income line that you talk about the equity method and less PCI loan sale gains that lines up into 450 million to 500 million for the last several years.
Is there anything particular that happened this quarter and is there anything that would prevent it from kind of going back to that more normal run rate? Yeah good question.
It's really not what happened it's what didn't happen this quarter.
The comparison in the first quarter and the primary drivers for the decline were – we had an equity investment that we accounted for under the equity method and as you know when those appreciate in value as opposed to the cost method you have to go ahead and write up the value which we did in the first quarter.
Just so you know we actually sold that equity investment so we got the cash in the second quarter.
Then secondarily we had $151 million gain which we had called out in the first quarter from the sale of some PCI loans that again were in the first quarter that we just didn't have in the second quarter.
So I think it's more of what was missing in the second quarter than what occurred.
So I don't know what's going to happen in the third quarter but I think if you look over a long period of time the income from that line item being as low as it has been is not typical.
Right okay.
And then secondly the share count again was up and you guys had talked about that we might be getting towards the point where we finally start to see it reduce and I'm just wondering are we at that point and what needs to happen just with the [mix] to finally start getting the share count down? We were almost at that point this quarter.
That's one of the reasons why I called out the fact that the timing of the settlement from a structured sale had that occurred in the second quarter and it's going to occur relatively early in the third quarter we would have been about flat.
Notwithstanding the second quarter tends to be a quarter in which there's more share issuance as we called out.
I don't know exactly what's going to happen but my guess is that we're very close to the point at which we will start to see share reductions.
Okay.
And then on the mortgage business the pipeline was down but you guys had mentioned last quarter that your closing times had gone down from 90 to 60.
I'm just wondering how much of a market share opportunity is this because it doesn't sound like you've really cut capacity yet.
So could you just walk us through originations versus pipeline and how much more you're actually just pumping through the channel regardless of what's happening with the overall origination volumes in the marketplace? Yeah.
Well one of the reasons why we haven't made a lot of changes in terms of underlying business is that the increase in the rates only happened a few weeks ago and we had a large pipeline that we were working through.
As you saw originations in the second quarter were a lot stronger than I think anyone would have imagined.
So I think that's going to naturally begin to change because even through $64 billion is a great place to start it's definite $63 million it's definitely less than $79 million.
And so our guess is that volume and originations will be under the $100 billion mark and we’ll need to go ahead and make some adjustments but again I think the competitive atmosphere is really fierce but it's very rational.
Okay and my last question Tim with regard to your favorite slide.
Your big delta in provision this quarter and you’re talking about the mortgage banking revenue now is starting to turn from here.
So I know it's hard to say in any given quarter if you could actually be able to grow EPS a quarter ahead but can you just talk us through again it's hard to see the provision much more and we know that mortgage is kind of tailing.
So what do you expect to be the biggest drivers out of the net maybe the other income reverting back up to kind of continue to get that net income moving the right way.
Yeah it's a very fair quarter given the potential decline in mortgage revenues but again let’s make sure we put that in perspective.
Mortgage revenues are a little over 10% of our total revenues for the company that’s number one.
Number two when you look at the breadth of the growth in the company in terms of net interest income growth you saw loan growth you saw us take advantage of the fact that given the right back up we will invest it more in securities.
We haven't invested this much in securities in a long time right even when that we say the backup in the first quarter.
When you look at the non-interest or the fee revenues really across the board we saw growth with the exception of some of those areas that were affected by the back up in rates so there’s a good story there.
I don’t necessarily think this is the end of the improvement in credit because the factors continue to -- that are driving the improvement in credit haven't bottomed down.
And then I think it's likely that we’ll continue to see some improvement in expenses.
So when you put it all together I don’t think it's just one time if it was I’d tell you and you could decide whether or not it would make sense but the good news for us because of our diversified model we don’t have to rely upon one or two specific areas to be able to make up because make up or decline in any business we’ve seen declines in some of our businesses each quarter now for the last 14 quarters and we still have been able to grow whether or not we can do it in the third quarter I can’t promise you that but I sure do like our chances to continue to grow earnings over time.
Got it.
Tim is absolutely right in that I mean we are actually focused around here on growth and it comes from our basic operating philosophy around helping customers succeed financially.
And when you’re in 90 different businesses as Tim mentioned not every quarter would be a complete offset to one other one but over time we believe we have the right business model the right leaders the right markets to continue to grow this company and we sure like our chances on that.
Thank you very much guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Paul Miller with FBR.
Hi Paul.
Thank you very much.
How you guys doing? Just one follow-up question on the MSRs you talked about you could see some sales; would these be material sales in MSRs I mean what level of MSRs would you like to hold? We’re very comfortable with the level of MSR that we have today.
Having said that from a risk management standpoint it's prudent to investigate the sale of any of the assets that you have on the books whether it's MSRs or otherwise.
I think to the extent that we would move forward to sell MSRs we would focus on those MSRs that tend to be to a customer that only has one product that mortgage that we service with the company; that would be where the primary focus would be.
I don’t necessarily think it would material because we don’t think we have to do it but it sure does make sense given the volatility in interest rates to look at all your assets and make sure that you know how to and can execute on sales before you’d ever get to a position that you would have to do it.
Yeah Paul think of it this way I wouldn’t make more of this than it is I mean we have a very large and important servicing business.
We love that business from time-to-time opportunistically we’ll sell something and reposition but we like the bounce and we like that business a whole lot.
And then on the credit side I believe your reserve ratio is down around 2%.
What do you think you can take that down to with your improvement in credit and improvement in HPI? We don’t have a target it's a fair question but we don’t have a target it was 2.01% at the end of the quarter.
It's going to be what it's going to be based upon the improvement in the underlying credit trends.
I wouldn’t be surprised if it was below 2% the next quarter I mean that’s a possibility.
It could be a little bit higher it could be a little bit lower but there’s not a specific target that we have because it's really just the results of their underlying credit performance.
Okay.
Hey guys thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Morford with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks good morning guys and congrats on a solid quarter.
Thank you Joe.
Thanks Joe.
I guess as you mentioned that the economic data continues to improve with last weeks employment report and the strengthening housing recovery and while you talked about a multiplayer effect are you seeing much of a pick-up in activity yet at the customer level as well and when might we see this translate into stronger loan growth particularly on the commercial side.
Yeah the primary area’s that we’re seeing and take a hold is on the consumer side.
You saw our consumer loans again we need to back out the impact of the liquidating portfolio but we saw auto growth we saw credit card growth which was very nice.
We’re continuing to see growth in terms of this household formation that’s out there and that allows us to continue to grow deposits so all those are good trends.
There’s no question there’s going to be a bit of a lag effect as it relates to stronger commercial loan growth.
Our commercial loan growth again has been pretty strong which is now the I think the 10<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter that we -- wholesale in total has grown and certainly in certain segments and industries within the wholesale portfolio we’re seeing some good growth but my guess again it will be a quarter or so before we start to see a big pick-up.
So you’re not really seeing customers draw down cash at or really make more investments.
No.
I wish they were but unfortunately not.
When you look at line usage in the commercial side it's been pretty stagnant for that.
And you’re right Joe that happens first.
Yes – that’s typically the first thing that happens.
And then just on investment banking revenue is up strong from the first quarter.
Can you just talk a little bit more about the drivers there and maybe if you could just give an update on the business in general and how it's progressing in market share gains and things like that? Yeah overall the business is performing very well the primary drivers for the growth wasn’t necessarily in any one specific product type within the business and it was very very much focused on our existing customer base.
The fees were up 40% year-over-year most of that again was with our existing commercial and corporate customers.
I think our market share at the end of the quarter ended up at about 5.8% which was fine.
We’re not running that business for any sort of market share we’re running that business to be able to be there for our customers when they need us and when you look at the growth in the business and the fact that it's primarily focused on those customers it's performing quite well.
Yeah Joe to add something to that I make a lot of calls in that area on behalf of our team and these are existing customers for the most part.
They appreciate the skill set and the abilities we have in that business especially if we partner with our retail distribution platform.
So we make a compelling offer and our long-term customers appreciate that added service that we have for them.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Joe.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Hi.
Hi Mike.
Good morning Mike.
I am trying to get just a real simple answer and that is I heard what you said John about the improving housing market and that was helpful but the question is; are the benefits in the improving housing market already in the numbers of Wells Fargo and my Column A based on what you said are some headwinds the origination pipeline down 10% to 15% repurchase reserves are all pretty low gain on sale going down and the Column B or perhaps in tailwinds expenses perhaps going down from the workout costs in the mortgage platform the MSRs and the credit.
So which is greater; Column A or Column B? And John in your opening remarks you said well benefits – your grammatical tense was the present tense and I think Tim at one point said Well Fargo benefitted the past tense.
So does Wells Fargo still benefit in their bottom line results from the improving housing market or is it all in the numbers? Yeah here's the way I look at that Mike.
When housing gets better it's better for Americans it's better for the country and that accrues – we had a commitment to residential real estate and commercial real estate for that matter in those companies because that's what our customers want us to buy.
I can't tell you if it's – what's going to happen in the next quarter but I can tell you this.
An improving housing market will benefit customers and us because we're at the end of the day a reflection of our customers.
So the benefits are yet to come.
It might come in different line items.
You're right if rates rise there will be less refinances.
We've been there before but it also means improved credits it means improved confidence.
Customers start small businesses.
We're a big/small business bank.
Environmental costs go away.
So I would take that trade all day long in improving housing market even if it means less refinances because rates are rising at the same time that's fine.
Mike the only other thing I would add is I don't think you have enough columns on your sheet of paper.
We have 90 different businesses right? We are not just a – if we were just a mortgage company then I think the columns and the items that you pointed out would have been absolutely spot on right? But this is a portion of our business it's a great business terrific people we're helping customers succeed all the time in that business but we have 90 other – or 89 other businesses in this company that are continuing to grow and you can see not only this quarter but over the last year that many of the businesses have been growing not only as it relates to net interest income but also to noninterest income.
So again who knows what's going to happen in the third quarter but over time this diversified model is very helpful when you have one business where revenues might be coming down.
And if I can speak to our language so I guess you'd say there's 90 horses pulling the stagecoach and as the mortgage horse is slowing down potentially slows down although it's certainly been stronger for longer which of those other 89 businesses do you think are most able to pick up the slack? All of them.
It's not just one Mike.
That's what exciting right? If there was just one actually we'd be worried about it.
But whether – it's a nice analogy.
That would be quite a stagecoach that we would have but the mortgage horse has been a big strong horse right? We've got 89 other horses that are going to be to grow.
And again just look at the numbers this quarter to get a feeling for – we called 10 to 12 there's even more as you pour through the numbers in terms of performance.
We talked in last couple of quarters about how we think we have an opportunity in credit card.
I mean we are seeing great increases there.
Look at the Wealth Brokerage and retirement business now these are not all one horse offset the other horse but when you have a whole team out there the key is keep the coach running and we like that diversity.
And last follow-up just in case the other [NII] businesses don't pick up the slack right away as JPMorgan said on its call earlier that you can't slow down a mortgage but a lag in the expense takeout.
Can you just remind us of the expense flexibility that you have outside of mortgage? We still think there is opportunity on expenses here and I think Tim mentioned that earlier in the call.
So as you mentioned on the mortgage side first of all there is the commission base so that happens immediately.
And then we are very good at sizing the business based on what's going on.
We've done that many times.
But in other businesses we – for example we started something called the neighborhood store with 6 200 stores.
We opened that first one in Washington D.C.
and that operates at 40% less costs of the same functionality.
There are tons of opportunities like that; paperless ATM receipts and nickels and dimes in the corners that all add up at the end of the day in addition to the environmental costs.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you Mike.
Your next question will come from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Nancy.
I promise I'm not going to ask mortgage banking questions.
First there's been a lot of press around this issue of the kiosk branch that you're introducing I think in New York City.
Could you talk about that a little bit and whether this signals some sort of broader experimentation with branch types throughout the network or is this something specific to New York? Well eventually is Washington D.C.
but – so let me tell you first of all we have about 6 200 stores and the stores have been relatively flat in numbers.
And there is a lot of discussion today about in our industry whether stores are still relevant.
We think they're enormously relevant even to our millennial customers.
And store usage and channel usage frankly is based on many times age affluence and activity.
And when we talk with our customers even the millennial visit our stores once every year or six months or sometime and places where they go to open their first account it's where people go.
If they can't they'll go probably any place else and it's a place they take good money in if they come into a trust fund that runs out of whatever the case may be.
But here's the key.
As long as our customers tell us that destination distribution like a store is important we're going to built it for them and we're going to have stores.
Will they need them? Will they want them? And that's important to growing deposits to selling products and services to them.
If we ever get a time where they say it's not important then we'll jump that way also.
So since stores are important how do you make them more efficient and how do you build them in a way that allows for the convenience they want the availability they want but also under the cost structure that makes sense.
The neighborhood store we had it's about 1 000 square feet.
During the daytime it's a full functioning store.
It happens to be paperless it happens to have the cash there is contained within machines that can check down to the dollar.
And after hours the [walls] fold in and it's an ATM vestibule.
So you can get the best of both.
This is a test and learn.
We've done a lot of testing and learning around here and in many of those densely populated marketplaces you can't rent a facility of 5 000 square feet.
A 1 000 all you can get so that makes it available to you.
So if this works we'll do more.
It doesn't work we've got nothing.
This is only one test.
We have lots of tests going on.
But at this point it's an additive strategy.
It wouldn't be where you would take existing branches that are sort of "more normal branches" and change them to traditional additive strategy at this point? Yeah it's additive but it might be a replacement strategy for certain stores.
In fact some of what we're doing today is taking two stores and building a new one and consolidating into two depending on customer flows depending on customer needs.
We are a retailer so most retailers that I respect are always looking at their distribution footprint and model but the long and the short of it is we believe in the store concept but – I mean when I first got in the industry we had the operations in the second floor and the boardroom on the bottom floor in the basement.
We had to change since that time and still continue to change.
Am I right in assuming that the breakeven on these things is like weeks or a few months? Well it depends on the activity in the store and the activity with customers.
Five years ago the breaking was very different than it's today customers borrowed more.
All right.
It's a different margin on borrowing versus depositing.
But I wouldn’t say in weeks or months but it's about 40% reduction in cost is the same functionality that’s a big deal.
All right.
Second question is this your improvement in cross-sell from 6 to 6.14 and your ongoing improvements in cross-sell is this primarily one product two products I mean is there sort of still a quote lead product you guys have that sort of lead the cross-sell? Yes it's checking accounts.
That’s why when I wake up in the morning I get here the first thing I look at is the checking account report from the day before.
I love checking accounts I dream about them.
I just -- because … John you’ve been in the business too long I am sorry.
It's because it's the formational account for a consumer.
And the second probably most important is mortgage and that’s why we’re almost -- we’re obsessive about that about serving customers.
Yeah and just finally one quick thing and I probably already know what the answer is but I have got to ask it anyway given that there has been yet one more attempt at Glass Steagall break them up you obviously big you’re bigger now than you were before the financial crisis blah blah blah I mean are you -- I would assume that you would be in this group of break them up banks and I guess my question is what could you be broken up into? Well Nancy this is America people are free to express their opinion and that’s one of the beauties of this country.
And yeah from my perspective we're thoroughly in the real economy.
I mean what we do is to serve customers.
Small business large business commercial real estate customers consumers and virtually everything we do has a customer on the other side of it.
We take a deposit in we don’t put it into a vault and (indiscernible) we put it to work.
We make consumer loans commercial loans small business loans loans to ranchers and farmers and energy companies and that’s what we do and that’s proprietary.
I mean that’s putting because we have to manage those kinds of risks I understand that.
I don’t understand how serving customers broadly and deeply including helping them with a public offering whether it be debt or equity somehow it makes us riskier or weaker or puts depositors at risk more so than making a loan.
But I understand that the dialogue you got to realize the capital that’s been raised the discipline around risk of all kind is far different than it was just a few years ago.
I am proud of this company and proud of what we do and I know that we are helping this economy to recover to heal and we’ll do all we can do that.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Marquardt with Evercore.
Hi Andrew.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Just a couple of [tiki-tak] questions first on expenses environmental costs have come down significantly the last couple of quarters.
Is there a lot more room to go from there I know you had mentioned that they were not at all behind us but I seem that we won't go to zero on a lot of these some of this will be ongoing costs when I’m looking at your Page 13 on your slide deck how much room should we really think about is left to go? I don’t know the exact answer to your question Andrew.
I think it's a fair question because as you point out we’ve made a tremendous amount of progress over the last few quarters.
I don’t think so if you just pick two items for example foreclosed asset expenses which were $146 million in the second quarter that doesn’t feel to me to be the run rate that we would settle in.
Could it go up it could go up or could go down but I think over time there still is some room for that to decline.
And then also I think the contra revenue item that we had which was the MSR servicing and foreclosure cost impact.
Again the primary driver there is continued foreclosure timelines in certain judicial foreclosure states primarily New York and New Jersey and over time that will I think begin – we will continue to moderate.
So I think those in particularly probably little bit more room to run.
But you’re correct the rate of increase is going to slow down.
Okay okay.
That’s helpful thanks.
And then secondly back to liquidity just want a clarification because you had mentioned in an earlier comment about how you may need to raise some additional liquidity.
Is that related to the LCR or is that related to the consideration of other things in terms of the OLA additional bailing debt considerations that are out there? Because when we look at LCR we have you guys in a pretty healthy range of 120 to 140 depending on how you calculate it.
So I was just a little surprised by that comment.
Well I think that’s – you hit the nail on the head with your last comment and that it's hard to calculate the answer when you don’t really know what – that all the variables are going to be.
We think that we have more than sufficient amount of liquidity be able to operate Wells Fargo we’ve been able to demonstrate that through some pretty significant downturn.
The rules might change a little bit.
If that’s the case we have to make some adjustments to the balance sheet if we do that.
That’s fine.
We will adjust to that.
But it's not that the onset of finalizing the Basel III LCR and any of the interpretation that might occur from our domestic regulators is not impacting the way that we’re running the business today.
Meaning that we’re not – we don’t have some money to satisfy that we can’t lend to our customers or we can’t invest in securities because we’re too concerned about that and there is a lot of moving parts.
And again we’re going to we are – we will comply with whatever the final rules are we will do that in an appropriate timeframe.
But it’s not a limiting factor for the Company today.
Got it.
And what is the constraining factor when we should think about excess liquidity and the ability to deploy more into securities or loans or what have you? What is the sense that’s …? It is economic growth and the rate of loan growth and when we think about the recovery as we talked about we continue to be in a recovery that had to adjust to a tremendous amount of headwinds and it's been from our perspective remarkably resilient but our loan growth would be a lot stronger as we were at 3% GDP level or 4% GDP level which is about what I think everybody expected a few years ago when we started to come out of the downturn it’s primarily loan growth less today in terms of investment less today rates.
That was a big limiting factor for us a year-ago and nine months ago and three months ago for that matter less today for sure rates because rates are more attractive today.
Got it.
That’s helpful.
Thanks.
And the beauty of it borrowing does start I mean that – those costs are already embedded.
We already have those approved.
I mean that’s just all revenue then.
All right.
Got it.
That’s helpful.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Hey Betsy.
Hey Betsy.
Hey good morning.
Couple of questions.
One on page 26 you got the PCI accretable yield slide and you indicated the weighted average life is 14.5 years there.
So that’s up from last quarter where I think it was like 12.3 or something like that.
And I am just wondering what is behind driving that up? A couple of things.
One is just that we have a general improvement in the underlying portfolio and the delinquency in the portfolio has come down little bit.
So the expectation according to the model is that customers are going to stay in their homes longer.
We could be – I mean it could be though that you could reach a point whereas you continue to see home values increasing that it could reach a point where those customers maybe more comfortable and able to sell their homes or even to refinance and that would begin to bring the average life down.
But I wouldn’t read into that change any big change in our assumption during – like that is very variable on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
Okay.
But you are basically saying credit quality is improving and that’s why the weighted average life is extending? Yes.
Do you have anything at all in there for prepays or it’s not rate related at all? No we definitely do.
I mean that's part of the – it's one of the important variables within the model.
But again personally I think that prepaid are going to accelerate over time as values continue to go up but we haven't seen that yet in the performance level but I think logically it could.
Okay.
And which would shorten duration and pull in the PCI a little bit faster? Correct.
Okay.
And then secondly HPI going up significantly in the most recent quarter it's this level of housing value hold for the rest of the year.
How much is that going to be impacting your loan growth? And I know the question's been asked a couple of different times but I guess the real question is do you feel that the current value of housing price is in Q2's numbers or is there more to come from the HPI improvements that we've seen this quarter? We tend to use a lagged function and we tend to be a little bit more conservative.
I mean we're not going to take for example the housing price the 13% that John mentioned what we've seen year-over-year and assume that's going to continue forever right? And so you got to be very careful with that.
I think we've been and I think the entire industry and the market's been positively surprised at the level at which housing prices have – how resilient they've been how much they've grown and the percentage that they've grown.
So again I think that we've seen some nice improvement and our expectation is that we're very positively leveraged to home prices.
And so we could see some improvement from the results that you see here in the second quarter.
I'm just thinking in particular about home equity because that to me seems like the area where you should have some of the sharpest swings as HPI has gone up so much recently over the next couple of quarters.
But I don't know if that's a fair assessment given…? Betsy I think you're absolutely right and maybe using the word leverage is maybe even more appropriate there when you think about the impact to a home equity portfolio which the majority of our home equity portfolios are junior leans.
To the extent that you got a portion of that that's above 100% home – increasing home values really really impacts that portfolio.
So are you seeing much in the demand and the origination pipeline for that product yet or is it too early? I think our home equity originations were up year-over-year but I don't think they were necessarily up significantly from the first quarter.
It's a good product.
It's underwritten very well today.
It's one of the many products we provide.
It's a slight uptick but it wasn't one of the drivers for the home equity – or our loan growth we would have called it out.
Got it.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Mutascio with KBW.
Hi Chris.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Good morning John.
How are you? Hi Chris.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Tim I had a quick question for you.
I'm going to go all the way back to the first question today and I can't promise what Nancy promised.
It will be a mortgage question.
When you look at the servicing side of the business and how it flows through the income statement the servicing asset has – the MSR has been written up about $3 billion in the last couple quarters and yet the servicing income is still kind of stuck in that $300 million to $400 million range per quarter.
So in order for that natural hedge to fully take hold if indeed we see a material and that's my assumption but a material decrease in refinance activity do you have to start lessening up on the hedge on the MSR for that to flow through to the income statement and more so than it has? If you wanted to create a natural hedge you would have to reduce your hedge percentages and then when you're doing that you would potentially create a lot more interest rate risks – not potentially you would create a lot more interest rate risks for the company.
And we just don't think that that's a prudent thing to do.
So I think historically when the business was smaller than it is today it might have been a little bit more – we might have more flexibility to do that.
That doesn't really make sense to us today.
So our hedge ratios are relatively high which is one of the reasons why you're not seeing one-for-one offset.
There will be some benefit there's no question about that.
And I think one of the key benefits of the servicing portfolio over time is that the quality of what you're servicing continues to increase because you continue to originate better quality mortgages that are going to pay for a longer period of time and you don't have as much foreclosure impact.
I think that in terms of comparing our servicing results over the next few quarters with what we've experienced in the last few quarters most of the reduction that you've seen has been related to foreclosure elongation and things like that and we're hopeful that that's going to dissipate.
But I would not look for the MSR dollar-for-dollar offset and any reduction in revenues from the origination side of the business.
There's some natural relation but it's not one-for-one.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> And just one quick follow-up.
I think John had mentioned or I think both of you mentioned potential MSR sales going forward.
And I think John you had mentioned – I don't want to put words in your mouth but maybe there would be kind of one-off type portfolio similar to the reverse mortgage sale recently.
Would the pickup paid portfolio be included as a one-off potential sale in terms of MSRs? Well that one we own.
I mean we own the asset there.
So I wouldn't look for that area per se.
I don' want to give guidance here but I think what you should take away from this is that we like the MSR business.
We think it's critical to – well we not only like it because of the business itself but because of the cross-sell we do out of it.
And that we will sell from time to time opportunistically.
I think Tim mentioned that we might look at something that has a single product household kind of dynamic here but we're always looking in all of our businesses is an opportunity here to monetize something that might be more valuable someone else to us sure we'll look at that.
I won't go for a big change here.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Right thank you very much.
Your final question will come from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
My question was asked.
Thanks.
Okay thank you.
Thank you much and I know we've run over time a little bit but thank you all for joining our call and we appreciate your interest and your coverage in Wells Fargo.
See you next quarter.
Thank you much.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brent and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Rowe you may begin your conference.
Thank you Brent.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf; and our CFO Tim Sloan will discuss third quarter results and answer your questions.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that our third quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at wellsfargo.com.
I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.
Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced including the reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can also be found in our SEC filings in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website.
I'll now turn our call over to Chairman and CEO John Stumpf.
Thank you Jim.
Thanks everyone for joining us today.
Wells Fargo continued to demonstrate the benefit of our diversified business model generating record earnings in the third quarter and achieving our 15th consecutive quarter of earnings per share growth.
While the drivers of our earnings growth over this period have differed reflecting the changing economic and interest rate environment our focus on meeting our customers' financial needs has remained the same.
There are currently some new economic challenges with the U.S.
government shutdown and a possibility of the government defaulting on its debt but prior to these recent events the economy had continued its pace of moderate growth with gains in consumer spending business investment and employment.
While the recovery remains uneven there are many positive signs including increased small business optimism and a dramatic improvement in household net worth with household leverage now lower than any time since 2002 which provides capacity for consumer spending and borrowing going forward.
The housing market also continues to demonstrate strong momentum.
While as expected higher rates reduced mortgage refinancing activity this quarter home price appreciation remains strong and affordability remains excellent.
This improvement has benefited our customers and contributed to our overall credit performance.
Let me take a moment to comment on the current situation in Washington and how we think about the implications for Wells Fargo.
A prolonged government shutdown and potential debt ceiling breach is unnecessary and troublesome that will likely create new needs for our customers and their families.
I have asked our business leaders to identify ways we can help our customers directly affected by the shutdown.
Whether its furlough government workers or our customer distressed by agency closures and we stand ready to assist our customers during this period.
More importantly for our country I feel it is important for our leaders in Washington to set aside partisan differences break the logjam and find workable solutions that are in the best interest of our nation and our economy.
I'm encouraged by the news coming all over the nation's capital yesterday.
We've managed through changing environments in the past and our experience and vision will guide us through this period of transition as well.
Our results this quarter reflected the dynamic environment we are in and the benefit of our diversity.
Let me share some highlights.
Our record earnings of $5.6 billion and record earnings per share of $0.99 were up 13% from a year ago.
Our core loan portfolio grew by $44.2 billion up 6%.
This strong performance was broad based with growth in our commercial and consumer portfolios reflecting organic growth and the acquisition of two commercial real estate portfolios.
Our credit performance was exceptional as we continue to benefit from our conservative underwriting and improving economic conditions especially in housing with the net charge-offs down to 48 basis points annualized and our total net charge-off dollars down 59% from a year ago.
Our outstanding deposit franchise continued to generate strong deposit growth with average deposits up $79.1 billion from the year ago while reduced deposit costs by 6 basis points to just 12 basis points for the entire portfolio.
We deepened relationships across our company achieving record retail banking cross-sell of 6.15 products per household.
Wholesale Banking grew their cross-sell to 7 products and Wealth Brokerage Retirement cross-sell increased to 10.41 products.
We had very strong returns growing return assets by 8 basis points to 1.53% and return on equity increased by 69 basis points to 14.07%.
Our capital levels continued to grow and our estimated Tier 1 common equity under Basel III increased to 9.54% surpassing our stated 9% target.
We look forward to the upcoming CCAR process where we expect to request a higher dividend and an increase to our share repurchases.
Tim will now provide more details on our third quarter results.
Tim? Thanks John.
Good morning everyone.
My comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly supplement starting on Page 2.
John and I will then take your questions.
Our financial results this quarter demonstrated the benefit of our diversity and our risk discipline as we continue to produce strong results.
Wells Fargo earned a record $5.6 billion and grew earnings per share to $0.99 both up 13% from a year ago.
We've now achieved 15 consecutive quarters of earnings per share growth and 10 consecutive quarters of record EPS.
As John highlighted and as you can see on Page 3 our year-over-year results reflected loan growth that was well diversified as well as strong deposit growth.
Lower mortgage banking revenue resulted in the decline in pre-tax pre-provision profit compared with the year ago.
The higher rate environment which has reduced mortgage refinancing volume has resulted in a transitional period for our mortgage business.
We had expected and planned for lower mortgage volumes and have managed through these periods in the past.
I'll provide more detail on mortgage trends later in the call.
However we're still able to grow earnings and increase returns driven by strong net interest income fee growth across many of our businesses and significantly improve credit.
Our revenue diversification is highlighted on Page 4.
Different businesses naturally contribute more or less to our revenue depending upon the economic and interest rate environment but our revenue remained almost evenly split between net interest and non-interest income and our sources of fee income were very well diversified.
This is a benefit of our business model.
We don't rely on any one business to generate growth.
Let me start by highlighting some of the key drivers of our third quarter results from a balance sheet and income statement perspective starting on Page 5.
Our balance sheet has never been stronger.
We increased earning assets by growing loans and purchasing securities.
We continue to strengthen our capital levels even as we return more capital to our shareholders.
Let me take a moment to highlight our improved liquidity position.
While we believe our liquidity position was already strong with heightened regulatory expectations we've been adding to our position over the past few months.
We increased long-term debt and term deposits at very low rates and most of the proceeds went into cash and short-term investments.
While building our liquidity puts some pressure on our net interest margin it did not impact our bottom line.
Turning to the income statement on Page 6.
Net interest income remains strong driven by a $23.3 billion increase in average earning assets.
Mortgage revenue declined as expected but we had growth in other fee categories.
Our expenses declined driven by lower personnel expense and lower operating losses.
Our effective tax rate in the third quarter was 31.9%.
During the quarter we finalized settlements with tax authorities regarding prior period tax issues primarily associated with certain cross border transactions.
Primarily due to these settlements we recorded a net reduction in our reserve for uncertain tax positions which resulted in a tax benefit in the third quarter of $166 million.
Let me now cover our business drivers in more detail.
As shown on Page 7 we continue to have strong loan growth with period-end loans up $29.7 billion or 4% from a year ago and up $10.3 billion from the second quarter.
Excluding our liquidating portfolio our core portfolio grew by $44.2 billion or 6% from a year ago and was up $13.8 billion from the second quarter.
Commercial loans grew $8.5 billion in the quarter with broad based organic growth and $5.2 billion from acquisitions.
Consumer loans grew $1.8 billion with growth in nonconforming first mortgage loans auto credit card and private student lending partially offset by the expected run-off from the liquidating portfolio and core home equity loans.
Even during a period with tepid industry loan growth we've been able to grow our loans on a year-over-year basis for nine consecutive quarters and for the past six quarters year-over-year growth has been at least 3% despite run-off from our liquidating portfolio.
Our growth is a result of remaining committed to meeting the financing needs of our customers and benefiting from opportunities to grow through acquisitions.
On Slide 8 we highlight the drivers of our loan growth from a year ago.
Real estate one through four family first mortgage loans grew $14.4 billion or 6% even with the run-off from our liquidating portfolio and included growth in high quality nonconforming mortgages and the retention of conforming mortgages.
C&amp;I loans were up $13.5 billion or 8%.
We have broad based growth in asset backed finance government banking corporate banking and commercial banking.
Foreign loans grew $6.9 billion or 17% which included $4 billion from the U.K.
CRE acquisition we completed in the quarter as well as trade finance growth.
Auto loans were up $3.6 billion or 8% reflecting continued strong originations.
Credit card balances were up $1.8 billion or 7% with strong new account growth reflecting increased card penetration as well as marketing efforts.
Deposit growth remained strong with average deposits up $15.8 billion in the second quarter and up $79.1 billion or 8% from a year ago.
We grew our primary consumer checking customers by a net 3.9% from a year ago up from 3.5% last quarter.
The growth in these relationship-based customers should benefit our future results as we remain focused on meeting more of our customers' needs.
We continue to reduce deposit costs which were down 6 basis points from a year ago and 2 basis points from the second quarter.
We've successfully grown deposits while reducing our deposit costs for 10 consecutive quarters with average deposit costs declining to 12 basis points in the third quarter.
Our strong deposit performance over an extended period of time is a fundamental strength of our franchise.
As shown on Page 10 tax-equivalent net interest income remained strong.
Our ability to grow net interest income over the past year while the net interest margin has declined 28 basis points reflected the benefit of our loan growth and our disciplined approach to investing.
Net interest income was essentially unchanged from the second quarter benefiting from one additional day in the quarter higher securities balances loan growth and lower funding costs.
These benefits were offset by an expected decline in mortgages held for sale and lower variable income.
Average earning assets grew $23.3 billion from the second quarter reflecting increases in short-term investments AFS securities and loans.
We purchased $19.8 billion of AFS securities primarily in the form of agency MBS during the third quarter prior to the decline in rates late in the quarter.
While our net interest income remains stable our net interest margin declined by 8 basis points from the second quarter to 3.38%.
This decline was driven by four primary factors.
First our continued deposit growth which has little impact on net interest income but is dilutive to the NIM reduced the margin by 3 basis points.
The liquidity-related actions that we took in the quarter reduced the margin by 3 basis points also.
The net impact of balance sheet repricing and growth reduced the margin by 1 basis point.
And then finally variable income which includes PCI loan resolutions and periodic dividends was lower this quarter and reduced the margin by 1 basis point.
We currently expect continued net interest margin pressure.
Non-interest income was down $898 million in the second quarter driven primarily by lower mortgage refinanced volume and reduced gain on sale margins which I'll highlight shortly.
Because of the reduction in mortgage revenue and the impact from seasonality on a linked quarter basis can make it difficult to demonstrate the underlying momentum we have in many of our businesses.
It's helpful to look at our year-over-year trends excluding mortgage.
On Page 11 we show noninterest income excluding mortgage banking and you can see that we grew 5% compared with the year ago.
Let me highlight some of the momentum we have across a number of our businesses.
Deposit service charges were up $68 million from a year ago benefiting from strong account growth.
Trust and investment fees were up $322 million with strong growth in brokerage asset base fees and investment banking.
Card fees were up $69 million benefiting from strong account growth and increased usage in both our credit and debit card business.
Commercial real estate brokerage commissions grew $35 million from strong private and public market activity.
Equity gains were up $338 million reflecting gains from several transitions in the quarter.
Equity gains are naturally volatile on a quarterly basis but on a year-to-date basis gains are only up $48 million compared with 2012.
We're in a transitional period in our mortgage business.
As expected with the increase in mortgage rates our mortgage origination volume declined this quarter particularly refinance activity as highlighted on Page 12.
We've managed through many refi cycles in the past.
We remain committed to the mortgage business which is an important product for our customers and benefits from our cross sell focus.
We originated $80 billion of mortgages in the third quarter and with the rise in rates refi volume declined to 41% of originations down from 56% in the second quarter and down from 71% in the first quarter of 2012.
Purchase volume remained relatively strong in the third quarter down 4% from the second quarter benefiting from the continued strong housing market.
Our unclosed pipeline declined to $35 billion at the end of the quarter reflecting lower application volume and shorter processing times to close mortgage loans as capacities increased.
If rates remain where they are today we would expect lower origination volume in the fourth quarter reflecting lower refi volume and normal fourth quarter seasonality in the purchase market.
Our gain on sale margin declined from the historically high levels we experienced for the past year to 1.42%.
As rates seemed to have stabilized and competition has remained rational we currently expect the margin to remain relatively steady in the fourth quarter.
Reflecting lower origination volume we had lower incentive compensation expenses related to mortgage production in the quarter.
We announced reductions of 5 300 mortgage FTEs in the third quarter which increased our severance costs.
Most of the expense reduction from the lower FTEs was not reflected in our expense numbers for the third quarter because of the notice period we provided to our team members.
But you should begin to see reduction expenses more significantly during the fourth quarter and we will continue to manage our capacity based on demand.
While higher mortgage rates reduced our mortgage refi volume they benefit our servicing business.
Our servicing revenue was up $111 million from the second quarter benefiting from a slowdown in the economic amortization of mortgage servicing rates.
As we announced last week we've reached an agreement with Freddie Mac that resolves substantially all repurchase liabilities for loans sold prior to 2009.
The cost of this agreement was fully approved for in prior periods.
As a result our outstanding repurchase demands were down 25% from the second quarter and for the first time in over five years we did not add to our repurchase reserves in the third quarter other than reserves established for current period loan sales.
Expenses declined $153 million in the second quarter as shown on Page 13.
Salary expense was up $142 million which included $63 million in mortgage-related severance expense.
Incentive compensation expense was down $225 million driven by lower mortgage revenue and lower capital markets and retail brokerage activity.
Expenses also reflected lower operating losses down $93 million primarily from lower litigation accruals.
The environmentally elevated costs primarily related to our residential mortgage business that we've highlighted over the last few quarters have been significantly reduced.
However over time we do expect to recognize additional benefits from a continued improvement in the housing market including additional reductions to these costs.
We had higher expenses related to the regulatory environment and our compliance activities.
We've had a long history of strong risk management practices and in response to the heightened regulatory environment our expenses increased by approximately $200 million annually.
Our efficiency ratio rose to 59.1% in the quarter reflecting the immediate impact of the reduction in mortgage origination volume.
We expect our efficiency ratio to improve in the fourth quarter and we continue to target an efficiency ratio between 55% and 59%.
Turning to our business segments starting on Page 14 Community Banking earned $3.3 billion in the third quarter up 3% from the second quarter and up 22% from a year ago.
Retail Banking continued to consistently grow cross sell achieving a record of 6.15 products per household up from 6.04 a year ago.
We continued to benefit from momentum in the credit card business by growing accounts purchase volumes and balances.
We had record new accounts up 9% from a year ago and household penetration increased to 36% up from 32% a year ago and 28% just two years ago as we continued to increase marketing and enhance our product line.
The 14% increase in purchase volume from a year ago reflects this account growth and an increase in active accounts.
Credit card balances were up 3% from the second quarter and up 7% from a year ago.
We also had strong loan growth in our auto business with balances up 2% from the second quarter and up 8% from a year ago.
Originations were down 3% from the second quarter due to seasonality but up 9% from a year ago.
By remaining focused on serving the needs of all our small business customers we were once again America's #1 small business lender in dollars for the 11th consecutive year.
We extended $14.2 billion of new loan commitments to small business customers during the first nine months of 2013 up 24% from a year ago.
Wholesale Banking earned $2 billion in the second quarter down 2% from the second quarter with lower sales and trading investment banking and seasonally lower crop insurance fees.
Earnings were down 1% from a year ago as lower sales and trading income offset growth in other commercial businesses and strong loan and deposit growth.
While revenue was down from a year ago we had strong momentum across a number of our commercial businesses including a 10% increase in treasury management revenue.
This growth was driven by strong sales growth including continued penetration of existing customers as well as new customer growth and pricing increases.
In addition commercial card treasury management spend volume increased 22% compared with the year ago.
Wholesale Banking also benefited from growth in assets under management with AUM up 6% from a year ago driven by strong net inflows and market performance.
Wholesale Banking's cross sell grew to 7 products per relationship up from 6.7 a year ago.
Wholesale Banking results continued to benefit from consistent loan growth with loans having grown for 12 consecutive quarters.
The average loans grew 5% compared with the year ago and was broad based with growth coming from nearly all our portfolios including asset backed finance capital finance commercial banking commercial real estate corporate banking equipment finance and government and institutional banking.
As I mentioned earlier loan growth also benefited from U.K.
and U.S.
commercial real estate acquisitions.
Wealth Brokerage and Retirement earned $450 million in the third quarter up 4% from the second quarter driven by higher net interest income and improved credit quality partially offset by seasonally lower brokerage transaction revenues.
Earnings were up 33% from a year ago driven by strong growth in asset based fees higher net interest income and improved credit quality.
Revenue grew 9% from a year ago reflecting strong growth in asset based fees and higher net interest income.
Retail brokerage managed account assets grew to a record $350 billion up 18% from a year ago driven by strong market performance and net flows.
WBR has strong balance sheet growth with average loans and deposits up 10% from a year ago.
Loan balances were up 3% from the second quarter the fourth consecutive quarter of linked quarter growth.
The benefit of meeting all the financial needs of our customers was also reflected in WBR settling and increasing cross sell growing to 10.41 products per household in the third quarter up from 10.27 a year ago.
Turning to credit quality on Page 17.
Our strong performance reflected our long-term risk focus and the benefit from the improving housing market.
Third quarter net charge-offs declined to historically low levels only 48 basis points of average loans.
Losses in our commercial portfolio were only $19 million or 2 basis points of average loans.
Consumer losses declined to 86 basis points.
We continue to have especially strong improvement in our commercial and residential real estate portfolios.
Our commercial real estate portfolios were once again in a net recovery position and our consumer real estate portfolios reduced their losses by $1.2 billion from a year ago down 70%.
Reflecting these improvements our provision expense declined $577 million from the second quarter to $75 million and included a $900 million reserve release compared with the release of $500 million in the second quarter.
Given current favorable conditions we continue to expect future reserve releases absent a significant deterioration in the economy.
In addition to lower charge-offs in provision expense non-performing assets also improved NPAs down $360 million from the second quarter.
Nonaccrual loans declined $1 billion while foreclosed assets increased $662 million driven by an increase in government and shared foreclosed assets.
The increase was primarily driven by enhancements for loan modification programs slowing foreclosures in prior quarters.
Loans 90 days or more past due decreased $104 million from the second quarter and was down 30% from a year ago with improvement in both commercial and consumer loans.
Early stage consumer loan delinquency balances and rates also declined from the second quarter and from a year ago.
Our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under Basel III increased to 9.54% exceeding our target of 9% for the first time which includes a 100 basis point internal capital buffer.
The growth in the Basel III ratio demonstrated our strong underlying earnings performance and a reduction in risk-weighted assets reflecting an improved company credit profile and model refinements for commercial portfolios.
In addition after the Basel rules were finalized we took a number of actions to reduce RWA.
We disposed of an asset that had a punitive risk weighting and generated and evaluated more granular data on underlying investments of our BOLI assets.
We've reduced our common share count by $28.4 million from the second quarter.
We purchased 50.9 million shares and we executed a $400 million forward contract that is expected to settle in the fourth quarter for approximately 9.8 million shares.
We are focused on returning more capital to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
In summary we had another solid quarter by focusing on our vision of meeting our customers' financial needs resulting in strong loan growth and deposit growth.
We benefited from a continued improvement in credit quality with losses down significantly reflecting our conservative underwriting and an improvement in the economy especially the rebound in housing.
Our ROA and ROE continued to grow and we had strong capital generation which will benefit us as we enter the upcoming CCAR process.
We'll now open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Morning.
My first question… Good morning Erika.
Morning.
With the provision at $75 million this quarter and your efficiency ratio at 59% to continue the record quarterly earnings growth for next quarter it seems like you have to move to the midpoint of your efficiency ratio.
I guess the question really here is is can you get to the midpoint of your efficiency ratio next quarter all through cutting mortgage expense? Erika I would push back a little bit on the math there because that just assumes that we only have one lever to pull and that's expenses.
If you step back and look at the performance that we had this quarter you saw broad based growth across the company.
There is no question that the efficiency ratio deteriorated a little bit but that was just because of the immediate impact of the mortgage revenue decline.
Our expectation for all of our businesses is that we're going to see growth over time.
We believe that we're going to improve the expense efficiency ratio in the fourth quarter and we're hopeful that credit continues to improve.
As I mentioned we believe that we can – that we'll have further loan loss reserve releases.
So I don't think it's necessarily going to be one item that's going to impact our earnings next quarter and that's really been the case for the last 15 quarters.
Every quarter is a little bit different and that's fine because we've got the diversity and the strength in our businesses to be able to grow regardless of what's thrown at us.
Got it.
So I guess the message there is we should expect efficiency improvement next quarter and you'll get there through both – on both sides of the denominator – I'm sorry both sides of the equation denominator and numerator? Yes that's correct.
We expect our efficiency ratio to improve in the fourth quarter from the third quarter results.
Erika if you look at and you do the balance sheet you just think of the growth we had this quarter and the last number of quarters in loans those – that's the first call in our liquidity.
Secondly we do have liquidity – ample liquidity there.
This past quarter we were able as we have in recent quarters to deal with liability costs.
So there are lots of things going on here and as Tim mentioned the expense side is an important side that's not the only lever.
Got it.
My second question and then I'll step back is on capital return for next year.
I think we hear you loud and clear that we should expect more capital return next year versus this year and my question is really on the CCAR process.
Given sort of the fluidity on U.S.
leverage standards and global leverage standards which doesn't impact you as much as other large banks but I guess how do the regulators think of the buyback authorization that they approve relative to the fluidity of the new leverage rules? I guess the real question there is without the leverage proposals being final in the U.S.
or globally will they allow banks to announce large authorizations on buyback thinking that if something changes with the rules or the rules are just as stringent as proposed you could dial back your actual buyback relative to your authorization? Here is how we think about that.
If you think about the CCAR process we now have – every year we do this we learn more.
We have more experience.
Rules that were proposed are becoming more known not everything that's known today but this CCAR process will know a lot more about final roads that we knew in the past that doesn't mean everything is known.
Secondly we have made great progress.
Tim mentioned and I mentioned in our comments that if you look at just one ratio but we don't look at only one the Tier 1 common using Basel III rules as we understand them we're over the 7% plus the 1% SIFI buffer gets us 8% [indiscernible] 1% to 9% we're already 9.50% – north of 9.50%.
In our company the way you run it here is really about shareholder and you saw the activity we had last year in returning capital to our stockholders.
We purposely made a comment both Tim and I did about returning more to our shareholders and we're looking forward to this upcoming CCAR process.
It's surely an iterative process.
It's collaborative with Federal Reserve.
I don't want to get ahead of that process but I know you appreciate how much we care about returning and we're in a great position to do that.
So let's see where it all ends up.
Okay.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Hi John.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi John.
I was wondering on the liquidity additions Tim was this in preparation for your expectation of what the rules will be on LCR or OLA or both and do you anticipate doing more of this liquidity build in coming quarters are you now positioned for your kind of best read of what you expect on these rules? Yes a very good question I'm glad you asked it.
Had nothing to do with OLA we primarily focused on just liquidity.
We've always operated the company with a sufficient liquidity to meet the needs of our customers and also weather the volatility of the markets and we've seen a lot of volatility over the last few years for sure.
But that said there's no question that the regulatory expectations through the industry have increased and we've been building liquidity throughout the year and I think the important thing is that throughout the year as well as in this quarter it didn't affect our ability to serve customers invest in securities when rates were higher or as you've seen report another quarter of record earnings.
But we did accelerate the liquidity build this quarter and were able to do so in a way that was favorable because of the strong balance sheet that we have.
To your question about the standards we don't know what the domestic standard is going to be.
Our expectation is that will be announced sometime toward the end of this year.
But as it relates to the international standard we've exceeded that.
But again we don't want to make a big deal about that because that's not really the standard that's going to – that we're going to operate under.
It's going to be the domestic standard.
But I wouldn't worry about our ability to have sufficient liquidity to meet the standards to serve our customers to continue to generate earnings.
Okay.
On the mortgage side any sense for how much the mortgage originations could fall in the fourth quarter? Can we look at the decline in the end of quarter pipeline as a guide to the possible magnitude from a decline from the $80 billion level or what's the danger of us doing that? Yes.
Well there's always danger in something right John.
But I think a big driver for mortgage origination volume is going to be where rates turn out.
I mean we've seen that in a great form this last quarter.
Assuming that we're going to stay in this current interest rate environment our expectation is that the mortgage originations will be down.
The reason that I didn't provide any more specific guidance is that we're early in the quarter.
Having said that I wouldn't use the point to point reduction in pipeline as the primary driver for coming up with any sort of expectation about mortgage origination volume because what we're experiencing right now in terms of the business is that there are closing times from origination to close on a mortgage are shortening up.
It's the case for us as well as I'm sure the entire industry.
So I wouldn't jump to that conclusion.
I assume they are going to be down but in terms of exactly how much I really – it would be premature to guess right now.
John I think the thing that we should all remember on the mortgage business is while refinance volume is down and it has an impact on us the improvement in the housing is really good for America good for our customers and also going to be good for our company.
We've been through these cycles before and affordability still remains very attractive.
Also leverage has come down and the interest by Americans in home ownership is still there.
So this is just a great thing.
People are feeling better and we'll respond as volumes go up and down and so forth.
We've done that in the past.
But an improving housing market is good it's good for everyone.
Okay.
Thanks John.
One quick follow-up.
Tim if the current credit trends persist is there any reason we couldn't see the reserve releases remain at the current level in this $900 million ballpark we saw this quarter? John I'd hesitate to provide you with the specific number because that's the process that we decide at the end of the quarter.
I do think as we said that you should have an expectation that we will continue to have reserve releases because of the trends that we're seeing not only in terms of the continued improvement in our portfolio but because of the continued improvement in home prices.
So we'll have a release in the fourth quarter.
I don't know what it's going to be but you should count on us having a release.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you John.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Morford with RBC Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hi Joe.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Excluding acquisitions on the end of period basis it looked like core loan growth strengthened a bit in the quarter.
How do you feel about demand through year-end and how much of these uncertainties around the government shutdown and the debt ceiling are affecting customer sentiment at this point? Yes I would say that it's a little bit too soon to gauge the impact as to what the – how consumers and our commercial customers are going to react to what's going on or not going on in Washington.
But the trends that we saw in the third quarter as you said ex the acquisition are continuing.
I don't know what the growth is going to be but I think what we were really excited about in the third quarter was how broad based loan growth was.
It wasn't just in one of our portfolios in wholesale it wasn't just in WBR it wasn't just in one of the consumer portfolios so it's broad based.
This gets back to John's comments about the recovery.
Again setting what's going on in Washington aside we're in the midst of recovery.
It's a little bit uneven but because of our diversification we're able to pick up wherever the loan growth might be.
Again I think it's really a testament to the team that we have out there dealing with customers every day because we're continuing to grow at a multiple of what the underlying industry is growing at.
You announced a couple of loan portfolio acquisitions in the quarter do you expect to see more of these opportunities in coming months? And just how competitive are these situations given that industry loan growth overall is fairly sluggish? Well you know what Joe you got to pay the highest price to win so there are always going to be competitive.
But we've been very pleased over the last two years to have been in the position because of our financial condition our liquidity our capital position to be able to acquire a number of loan portfolios.
We're hopeful that we'll continue to see opportunities to make acquisitions of good quality loan portfolios in the future.
We certainly don't count on it and we don't assume that we need it to be able to grow earnings.
But the short answer is there's competition out there but the fact of the matter is that we view it as a good counterparty to sell to because we got very experienced people that can provide a good underwriting.
We are able to transform that into competitive bids and when we say we're going to close we close.
Tim's absolutely right on that.
I think it's a competitive advantage we have for those reasons.
But we also – and you know this we don't do every deal we look at.
I mean we look at a number of things and transactions but it doesn't add to our customer base.
I mean these are not only loans these are customers and we're doing more things with them besides just the loan.
As you go through a number of these it's logical that there'll be fewer available but we still as I always say kick a lot of tires but the ones we bring home are the ones that really add value to our customer base.
Okay that's helpful.
Thanks.
Thanks Joe.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi Betsy.
Hi Betsy.
Just a couple of questions on mortgage expense side I'm wondering if you could just give us a sense of the amount of mortgage expense reduction you already have in your 3Q run rate? And roughly how far along you think you are in that reduction based on current volumes? And when you think you'd get to your new run rate of expenses there? Betsy it's a real good question.
The primary reduction in expenses in the third quarter from the mortgage business was really in the incentive compensation line which we mentioned.
Right.
Most of the 5 300 team members that were noticed in the third quarter were still with us as of the end of the quarter so most of that expense just the underlying personnel expense was not out of the run rate.
So you're going to see that come out of the run rate during the fourth quarter and our expectation is that as we start the first quarter it will be completely out of the run rate.
So not a lot of reduction with the exception of incentive comp in the third quarter metering through the fourth quarter and then out in the first quarter.
In fact Tim's right.
Actually it's a little bit – we actually took a charge in the third quarter for severance.
So that actually went through the expense numbers so you can almost argue that it was elevated by $63 million or so whatever the – so Tim is right that the direct variable is out but the support costs actually unusually went up for the quarter.
And then on the MSR valuation with the backup in rates I guess I was a bit surprised not to see a higher upward revaluation.
Maybe you can speak a little bit too how you got to your number.
Sure.
There is no question that we've had obviously a bit of a backup in rates but we did reduce the value of the MSR by about $240 million and the driver for that was the assumption that we have regarding prepayments during the quarter because of the increase in home values.
Again we try to appropriately hedge the portfolio so the impact was primarily driven by the change in the estimate of prepayments.
Okay.
So the LTV is outweighing the rate impact still? So far that's correct.
Okay.
And then just one last thing.
You have your card partnership that you announced recently with American Express.
Yes.
I just wanted to understand how you're thinking about offering that product versus your other card products.
I mean how do you determine which one you're going to be marketing to your different client bases and maybe if you could let us understand if there is a merchant angle to the AMEX partnership as well? Betsy that's an area of opportunity and focus for our company.
Just a little bit of history here.
When we put Wells and Wachovia together that we announced it almost five years ago to this day they had of course sold their current portfolio MBNA and when we put the two companies together we had something like a 18% or 20% penetration to our customer base.
Today it happens to be 35% 36% and we're really growing that.
But we knew and understood there was a client base within our customer base who call us their bank who carry a card but not our card and have tended to be in some cases a high-end card or it was a card that fit really nicely with what we're now partnering with American Express.
We all have a personal goal round here to satisfy all of our customers' needs and help them succeed financially.
We're not satisfied here with a 35% or 36% penetration into our customer base on card.
Every one of our current customers – customers has a card.
They probably have more than one card.
We want our card to be the top of their wallet.
By expanding our partnership to American Express in some spaces this will be hugely valuable in helping us do that.
It's not only from the economics of the card it's from the payments when we have customers better and so forth.
You're right we do a lot of things on the issuing side and this will help us there.
We're also a big company on the acquiring side the merchant side.
We'll be sharing more of that as time goes on but we're really excited about continuing to grow the penetration of our customers who carry our card.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Hi Matt.
Hi Matt.
I was just hoping to drill down on the expenses a little bit.
Obviously as we go forward there is the severance coming out there is the capacity reduction in mortgage that has already taken place and I'd assume some more to come as pressure comes down.
But can you give us a sense of what the all-in run rate of expenses maybe for the revenue environment that you see out there? No.
We don't look at the expense number as a number and we're not going to be able to provide the guidance.
I certainly appreciate why you asked the question.
We really look at our performance based upon the efficiency rate.
We provided guidance year and a half ago that we want to be in the 55% to 59% range.
It deteriorated as I mentioned a bit this quarter because of the median impact of the mortgage revenue decline.
We are going to improve our efficiency in the fourth quarter and we're going to continue to look at our expenses based upon our efficiency ratio because it's got to be as a percentage of revenues.
Matt it would not be difficult if we wanted to just to cut expenses.
The problem is when you look at your expenses just in terms of dollars and you just focus on the dollar reduction you have the propensity and we've seen this for lots of companies over the years then give up revenues and we are not going to do that.
This is a revenue-focused company that's got to deliver expenses efficiently and we're going to continue to do that.
So again I appreciate the question but we're not going to provide any dollar guidance.
Just one added comment.
We still believe and we've mentioned this I think every quarter that we have opportunities.
We're spending more in some areas compliance risk and so forth.
On the other hand we continue to innovate with our customers with our delivery models.
I mean our neighborhood store in Washington D.C.
has an operating cost basis 40% less than a traditional store and we're making investments at the ATM about taking paper out and all kinds of things but never at the expense of serving customers or at the expense of walking away from revenue.
There's always a balance there and that's why we have – we talk in terms of an efficiency ratio and we still feel comfortable with those guardrails.
I mean obviously a lot of that stuff has come up so far in the call but just thinking now beyond the fourth quarter to next year.
I mean it seems like it's going to be a tough revenue environment for a lot of folks including you guys and even beyond the mortgage costs so it does feel like there's other opportunities.
So I think over time to put some numbers around that might be helpful.
Just separately on the sale of MSRs over time any sense or color that you can provide in terms of how meaningful those could be both just in absolute sense and then I guess from like a gain perspective? Matt I wouldn't look for us to start to sell MSRs just from a gain perspective.
I think as we've talked about in the past we do think it's prudent from a risk management standpoint to look at the MSR portfolio and take advantage of the fact there's more demand for mortgage servicing rights today than there was six months ago or a year ago.
So don't be surprised if we do sell some of our MSRs.
I don't expect it to be a material reduction.
But I think from a risk management standpoint it's good to go ahead and test the waters every once in a while and you should expect that we'll probably be doing that in the next few quarters.
Matt as far as going forward you mentioned the next few quarter and what we're excited about here is you look at – first of all you look at the absolute performance of the company in a pretty difficult environment.
North of 14% return on equity and a ROI north of 150.
But if you look at the liquidity we have now on the balance sheet almost $200 billion in the first column that is for serving customers loans.
You look at the opportunity we have in certain businesses like cards in Wealth Brokerage and Retirement and insurance distribution in addition to all the existing businesses our ability to grow loans outgrow the industry there is also a lot of opportunity here.
Surely headwinds we get that but not foreign to us and that's why we like this.
As we have many times talked about the 85 to 90 horses that pull this coach along and being in different businesses.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Matt.
Your next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Hi Marty.
Thank you.
Hi.
Marty thanks for being a Dodgers fan by the way.
I appreciate that.
You never know what you're going to get asked when you get out there.
I have two technical kind of mortgage questions and I had one general kind of balance sheet question.
On the gain on sale margin dropping from 220 down to around 140 the curiosity I had was because you recognize your gain on sale at closing or funding a lot of times you have spike in interest rates you have a close rate that actually increases pretty substantially and can create a loss.
How do you know what the acceleration of the drop on this gain on sale margin wasn't tied somewhat to that phenomenon which is pretty unusual and only happens when you have these real dramatic shifts in rates like we just went through? Marty you raised a good point and you're going in the right direction but it wasn't because of any sort of a loss.
I think very frequently when you're in a period of a decline in rate as you're referring to you do get an acceleration in terms of the decline in rate of your margin.
I would describe that as more of a competitive impact as well as sometimes a mixed impact from whether your originations are coming from the retailer or correspondent business.
So there was no question that because of the rapid increase in rate there was a more rapid decline in the margin.
That said our expectation given if you believe that interest rates have more or less stabilized right now and also given the competitive environment that we think that the margin is more or less going to stay in this range for the next quarter.
Just to kind of hit on that one last time was did you have any pull through in a sense of when you're doing refis you kind of think there is always going to be some breakage was there any increase in the closure rate as the rates went higher because the refi folks just want to go in and make sure they got that locked in rate? No I wouldn't say that.
I do think what we did see toward the end of the quarter once rates started to come down the last few weeks of the month we did see an increase in volume on a daily basis just because there were folks that were hoping to have refinanced and then once they saw rates rise they put the brakes on that.
And when they saw rates fall they wanted to take advantage of it; but beyond that nothing more.
Okay.
And then the other technical question in mortgage was when you're looking at the servicing hedging you used swaps.
The majority of your hedging is in swaps.
When the rates went up you can really kind of restructure that swap portfolio or you can start to increase positive carry.
I just didn't know if you had the chance to take advantage of that with that spike in rates that we got in the third quarter.
Well there is no question that with the volatility in rates we needed to watch our hedging very very closely and there was more volatility in that this quarter.
But we really – what we didn't – just because of where rates went this quarter we didn't change the fundamental strategy in terms of how we hedge or the hedge ratios to try to speculate on where rates are going to go.
We really want to look at that servicing business based upon on the hedge carry and not try to either increase it or decrease it too much based upon where rates are going.
All I was getting at was you can kind of keep the same hedge ratio while taking advantage of a wider steeper yield curve sometimes there is a benefit related to that.
So I was just curious if that is something that you were able to take advantage of when you had that opportunity? Not materially no.
Okay.
And then lastly John you brought up the fact that your liquidity had increased so substantially I mean it's around $200 billion which is about twice what it was last year.
So as much as you try to eat into that with purchase in the securities portfolio or loan growth the deposit growth just keeps outpacing what you're able to do on the asset side.
What's your thought that as this number gets to be so substantial how you take that and begin to utilize it given the opportunity that you have right now? Sure.
Well I think that's one of the hidden strengths here in the company in that the loan – customers that are looking to borrow money we think they have the first call on that.
We surely will be thoughtful about making investments as we see backups.
So there is a lot of what I would call dry powder there that's available and a lot of that's just because of what the deposit growth has been.
I mean we've grown deposits over the last year by about $79.1 billion or $80 billion and we brought even the cost of deposits down by 6 basis points down to 12 basis points.
And I said this I think in the past and you know this that we're not turning away customers.
If a customer – and we grow – we've been growing our primary checking accounts by 3.6 to 3.9 depending whether you're talking about small business or consumer they bring lot other stuff to us when they do this.
And even though it might not look like a great trade today or tomorrow it's a fabulous trade over time.
I'll take all the customer households with all of the checking accounts and all the balances they want to bring here because it's going to pay huge dividends.
Just a slight follow-up to that is – and this is a tough question.
How much of this $200 billion do you all estimate is related – is sustainable through this cycle and not just temporarily parked on your balance sheet? And thanks for all the time this morning.
I think when it comes to primary accounts they're very sticky.
If you look at the makeup of the liability side of our balance sheet of the $1.03 trillion or $1.04 trillion only about $40 billion in CDs I mean these are accounts that people – they are transaction accounts they are checking accounts savings accounts and that's where people believe and if you ask where they bank they'll say I bank at Wells Fargo because that's where their basic and main account is.
It's a driver of almost every sales on the retail side.
So very much – the lion's share of that is core.
If rates back up will there be some disintermediation? Yes likely maybe within the company but probably a lot less than other companies or others that would have more one product households so called hot money.
That's just not who we are.
Understood thanks.
Thank you.
Thanks Marty.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Hi Mike.
Hi.
Good morning Mike.
Hi.
How important is it to have consecutive quarters of increasingly higher EPS growth and I'll get back to my question in a second.
I know it's probably an outcome of the way you run the business? Mike that's exactly right.
It's an outcome.
We don't set about trying to hit a certain earnings number.
What we do is we try to set about serving our customers' needs and the earnings are just an outcome.
The fact that we highlight it is something because we're proud of it.
We've had 270 000 people working really really hard for the last quarter in a pretty interesting environment where there have been a lot of headwinds we've talked about some of them and we're very proud of the performance.
We hope that continues.
But it's an outcome not a goal.
I know I've asked the question on past conference calls how do you mind the gap to the times when mortgage revenues decline and you don't yet have a chance to cut expenses.
It seems like the answer this quarter was partly reserve releases which equaled over one-tenth of your earnings for the quarter.
So I'm trying to understand the offsets a little bit better and you've touched on a lot of them.
But what sort of expense or efficiency gains should you get from those 5 300 employees leaving the mortgage business in the third quarter.
Can you put any numbers on that? No.
Mike it's a very fair question and I think if you look back on any of the 15 quarters that you were referring to every quarter is going to have a little bit different complexion and I bet – as we look back I don't bet I know if you look back in every one of those quarters there has been some sort of headwind that we've had to deal with.
I think that whether it's – we've been through in those quarters the ups and downs in the mortgage business.
We've been through the ups and downs in credit.
We've been through the ups and downs in operating losses and so on and so forth.
And I think the important thing to appreciate again is that it's not just one driver that's going to get us to continue to be able – that's going to allow us to continue to be able to grow the company right.
You saw this quarter – I mean the fundamentals are pretty exciting.
$10.3 billion of point-to-point loan growth multiple the industry average.
You saw year-over-year non-mortgage fee revenue up 5% again multiple of what the underlying economy is growing.
You've seen deposits grow as John was just talking about.
We're not going to turn down deposits.
We want to weigh them in.
Those are great relationships.
Expenses are down from the second quarter to the third quarter $150 million and the improvement in credit is terrific right.
Sure we had a reserve release but the reserve release is a result of a lot of good decisions over a long period of time.
So we're just – everything that we've done this quarter is really core to banking right its core to our performance.
So it's not just going to be one thing.
It's going to be the combination of everything.
If it was just one item we'd point to and we move on but that's what's exciting about Wells Fargo is the diversity of the business model.
If I can just have a follow-up one on revenues and one on expenses.
As far as you increased securities by $10 billion during the quarter and you bought the commercial real estate portfolios for another $5 billion.
When in the quarter did those go on roughly; the beginning the middle or the end? Most of the securities purchases were done toward the beginning to the middle of the quarter when rates were higher.
Then as rates dropped after the Fed announcement we slowed down our purchases because we didn't think the rates were as attractive.
In terms of the loan purchases my recollection is that the Eurohypo portfolio closed beginning to the middle of the quarter and then ING portfolio is closing loan by loan from about the middle of the quarter to the end.
All right so there should be some NII pickup in the fourth quarter from those moves I would assume? Yes I don't where NII is going to go but over time we certainly want to grow net interest income.
And we're hopeful to grow it in the fourth quarter and clearly having those two portfolio close will be beneficial to NII in the fourth quarter.
And then the follow-up on the efficiency side.
I mean 59.1% is outside your range.
I know it's just one quarter but that was the fear right? You get the mortgage slowdown and the efficiency ratio doesn't look as good and you made up for it with some other things.
But what else can you do outside of mortgage? You mentioned the neighborhood stores.
How many of those neighborhood stores do you plan to roll out over two or three years? What's the potential for that? Can you size that which I don't think you've done? Yes good question Mike.
What we do is test and learn.
So we are testing that and learning.
There are others on the docket but we also have an existing 6 200 stores and if I would just take a step back from that when we put the company together five years ago we had about 117 million or 118 million square feet.
Today we're down to about 93 million or 94 million square feet and we think we have more offering to go.
That's a broad issue around – the expenses around distribution not all that's distribution.
Of course that's a top of the house.
But within the 6 200 banking store distribution we are upgrading creating more density.
We are looking at every lease that comes up.
So by not only the neighborhood store which has a big cost advantage and there will be more we don't how many yet but even with the existing 6 200 we can even look at those things.
So every expense that dollar we spend gets considered.
It gets considered in of itself and how it relates to revenue.
But you're right we are 59.1 but I think we also said that none of the benefits or very few of the benefits of the mortgage side the revenue came out immediately and yet the expenses of those 5 300 are not out yet.
And plus on top of that we added $63 million or $65 million to it for a severance reserve that actually made the expenses go up if you will.
So we still think those guardrails make sense.
Surely we've touched the high end but we'll continue to work on that.
Also like we said each quarter has its own character.
Sometimes revenue comes out right away expenses trail a bit but we still feel comfortable with those numbers.
And then lastly the 94 million square feet where could that go? Could it go to 80 million 70 million? It will go down.
Again we continue to challenge our thinking and some things that just give you some ideas of the things that we're thinking about.
When we redo stores we look at density.
We look at this whole idea in some cases hoteling as technology becomes more available and more usable and as our customers spend more time with self-surveying.
But the goal here is not to get square footage gone.
The goal here is to serve customer in an exceedingly well way have a great place for team members to come to work and if we can make all that work and have less square feet then it's a win-win-win.
Everybody wins here.
All right thank you.
Thanks Mike.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Siefers with Sandler O'Neill.
Please go ahead.
Hi Scott.
Good morning guys.
I guess I just wanted to follow up on some of the credit-related questions.
I guess specifically – I guess what was it this quarter in particular that allowed for such a dramatic reserve release? And I guess the reason I ask is I certainly understand credit is continuing to improve but there have been other quarters where it's – in other words it's been improving for a while and in some quarters has been more robust than this quarter even.
So I guess number one what was it for this quarter in particular? And then I guess as I look back over really a decade or more I think this is by far the lowest absolute level of credit cost you've had in any given quarter despite you being several times larger than at some points there.
So has there been any philosophical difference in the way you guys are thinking about the need to reserve or reserve releases et cetera? I'm glad you asked the question.
No change in the philosophy in terms of how we're thinking about reserving.
And you're right.
I mean $900 million is an increase over the prior quarter.
It's not the largest reserve release we've had over last few years but it is in the last year or so.
And I would say it wasn't any one item it was just a buildup of a number of items.
When you think about it a year ago we had the OCC guidance that we had to adjust to and that clearly would have affected the amount of the reserve release.
Then we had hurricane or Superstorm Sandy and there was a concern about what losses might be and so we needed to make sure that we were adequately reserved.
And then throughout that same period we've had a continuation of home price appreciation that I think has surprised everybody.
It's amazing – it seems like every time one of the surveys come out the conclusion is oh it can never continue with that rate and then it's just continued.
So those are just some examples of why the reserve releases have grown so far this year.
I can't promise you that they'll continue to grow but we do feel very comfortable about the continued improvement in our credit quality.
And the other point that I would make is that also it's important to appreciate that the complexion of our loan portfolio is changing.
When you look at our commercial loan portfolio almost half of the loans that are in that portfolio today were originated post-crisis so 2009 and forward.
And somewhere and I don't have the number exact and I apologize but somewhere plus or minus 45% of the consumer loan portfolio was originated post-crisis.
So we're seeing the impact of not only the improvement in credit quality of the pre-crisis portfolio.
And John talked about how our consumers and our customer's balance sheets are improving.
Also the housing price appreciation is impacting that.
But it's also the fact that the new loan portfolio the post-crisis the credit quality is just exceptional.
So it's a combination of all of that.
It's not just one item.
Okay all right.
Yes I definitely appreciate the context on it.
Thank you.
Yes thank you.
Your final question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi Ken.
Thanks.
Hi John and Tim.
I just wanted to ask you a little bit more on the revenue side.
I get the context for NII.
We know kind of what's happening on the mortgage front.
So can you just flush out a little bit? I know you talked about that some other areas of the business are in fact growing but can you give us a thought about are there any other areas of the fees where you see potential acceleration or increased growth potential that help fill in for the kind of flattish NII and down mortgage trends that we've been seeing off late? Sure.
I mean I would just go back to looking at the year-over-year improvement on that non-interest income slide that we walked through.
And what you saw and I wouldn't conclude that any one of these items is going to grow any faster or slower than the others.
But what you've seen is a growth in our retail deposit business in terms of fees.
That's reflective of the fact that we've had a growth of primary checking account customers which is very exciting to see.
We see year-over-year growth in terms of our Wealth Brokerage and Retirement business on the fee side both in terms of the brokerage activity but maybe even as importantly if not more importantly in terms of the account base fees are continuing to grow.
Investment banking has been a – has continued to see good growth.
Credit card has been growing and so on and so forth.
I mean I'm leaving some business out but the fact of the matter is it's very broad based.
So I wouldn't point to any one specific item.
As John talked about we're very excited about credit card but that's not the only area of the company that's growing.
So I think it's going to be a number of the businesses that will help fill in any sort of gap over the next few quarters.
And I guess just within that Tim I'm just wondering if there are any businesses newer businesses that are kind of hitting their post-investment cycle that you've been kind of ramping up but that could show a better growth rate.
I get all your points that you made but I'm just wondering if there's – are there things that we haven't seen as much out of that we could see more out of that are just kind of hitting their right pace to their ramp? Well the last time I checked John's expectations of all of my colleagues is that he wants to see growth from all of them.
You bet.
They all have opportunity to grow.
So I wouldn't – no one is… No one gets special treatment.
Yes.
No one's going to get any special treatment either positively or negatively.
Again there's nothing too new and exciting it's all exciting.
Okay.
And then last question just on loans again and this quarter you had the purchases but then there was a little bit core as well.
I guess a broader question for you John there's the government stuff there was Syria there's the Fed where do you think customers are in terms of their desire to invest in the business especially in the commercial side? Everyone has been talking about how lame H8 [ph] has been over the course of the last couple of months or so.
What does it take to get this – to break through and what are your customers saying about their desires to take loans out and build their businesses? There is I would say guarded optimism.
Surely what happens in Washington is not helpful.
I have said this for some time.
I still think it's about confidence.
Think of the great attributes and advantages this country has and we've talked about it before.
The best rule or law even though government looks dysfunctional today compared to other places we wouldn't trade it.
We have natural resources.
We have an educated workforce.
We have a strong financial services industry the most deepest most transparent on the planet.
Housing is getting better.
There are just so many advantages.
That's why we are so bullish long term.
Clearly in the interim in the intermediate period as we go through budgets at the national level federal level and debt ceiling that's not helpful.
But I'm always reminded of our larger shareholder's comments you don't bet against the U.S.
and we have 97% of our revenues here and we couldn't be more excited about the long term.
So I'm optimistic but recognize that we still have ways to go.
Yes.
Okay guys.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
I'd like to just take this opportunity to thank all of you on the phone and thank our team members.
This is now within a day or two the five-year anniversary of our – announcement of our merger with Wachovia.
Five years later we couldn't be more excited about the future.
I want to thank all of the 270 000 some team members who come to work every day and make our brand promises come true.
So thank you for those of you on the phone and again thanks to all of our team mates.
Have a great day and we'll see you next quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Rowe you may begin your conference.
Thank you Regina and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf and CFO Tim Sloan will discuss fourth quarter results and answer your questions.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that our fourth quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at wellsfargo.com.
I would also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.
Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can also be found in our SEC filings in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website.
I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf.
Thank you Jim.
Happy New Year and thanks everyone for joining us today.
2013 was an outstanding year for Wells Fargo.
We generated record earnings grew loans and deposits had significant improvement in credit quality and rewarded our shareholders by increasing our dividend and buying back more shares.
We finished the year with a record $1 in earnings per share for the fourth quarter our 16<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter of earnings per share growth clearly demonstrating the benefit of our diversified business model and our success in meeting our customers' financial needs.
Let me share some of our accomplishments during this past year.
We generated earnings of $21.9 billion and earnings per share of $3.89 both up 16% from a year ago.
Our core loan portfolio grew by $39.8 billion almost $40 billion up 6%.
Our credit performance continue to be very strong with total net charge-offs down $4.5 billion or 50% from just a year ago.
Our outstanding deposit franchise continued to generate strong deposit growth with total deposits up $76.3 billion or 8%.
By focusing on meeting our customers' financial needs we achieved record cross-sell across the company with retail banking cross-sell growing to 6.16 products per household wholesale banking increasing to 7.1 products and wealth brokerage and retirement cross-sell achieving 10.42 products.
We also had very strong returns this year by growing ROA by 10 basis points to 1.151% and return on equity by 92 basis points to 13.87%.
We continue to generate strong capital growth with our estimated common equity Tier 1 ratio under Basel III increasing to 9.78%.
This was a great year for our shareholders.
Our stock price increased 33%.
We returned $11.4 billion in capital to our shareholders through our higher common stock dividend and more share repurchases in 2013 up 33% from 2012.
In our recent CCAR submission we requested even more capital to be returned to our shareholders.
As we start the new year I am excited about the opportunities ahead for our country for our customers and for Wells Fargo.
The unemployment rate has declined GDP growth accelerated and consumer confidence is near a five-year high.
While we don't expect the same rate of home price appreciation we had last year we do expect the housing market to continue to recover which will benefit the U.S.
economy and despite the rise in home prices and interest rates over the past year housing is still very affordable.
During the year ahead we will continue to build on our commitment to our customers and to our shareholders and invest in our businesses to generate growth for decades to come.
I am proud of all that our team members accomplished this past year.
Our earnings power and capital strength have never been stronger.
We believe we are well-positioned for 2014 and we are optimistic about the many opportunities ahead for continued growth.
Tim Sloan our Chief Financial Officer will now provide more details on our fourth quarter and full year results.
Tim? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
MY comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly supplement starting on page two and then John and I will answer your questions.
For the fourth quarter Wells Fargo earned a record $5.6 billion and $1 in earnings per share both up 10% from a year ago.
These strong results were broad-based with higher net interest income fee growth across many of our businesses lower expenses and improved credit quality.
We have now achieved 16 consecutive quarters of EPS growth and 11 consecutive quarters of record earnings per share.
Our ability to grow over such a long period of time reflects the benefit of our diversified model.
On slide three you can see the strong growth in 2013 that John just highlighted including a 16% increase in full-year net income and earnings per share.
Slide four illustrates our revenue diversification.
We do not rely on any one business to generate growth.
The power of our model and the benefit of our diversification were demonstrated in our 2013 results.
As interest rates rose during the year mortgage refi volume naturally waned as expected.
As a result revenue we earned in 2013 for mortgage originations declined $3.4 billion from 2012.
However over the same period we had double-digit fee growth in brokerage investment banking cards and mortgage servicing.
This diversification enabled us to generate double-digit earnings and earnings per share growth.
Let me start by highlighting some key drivers of our fourth quarter results from a balance sheet and income statement perspective starting on page five.
Our balance sheet has never been stronger.
We increased our earning assets by 5% by growing loans purchasing securities an increase in short-term investments as deposit growth remained robust.
We continued to increase our capital levels even as we returned $3 billion in capital to our shareholders including reducing common shares outstanding by 16.6 million shares in the fourth quarter.
The improving economy and high quality loan originations continue to result in improved credit quality with net charge-offs declining to 47 basis points.
Turning to the income statement on page six.
Revenue increased in the fourth quarter as we grew both net interest income and noninterest income.
Net Interest income increased while our net interest margin declined 12 basis points.
Our ability to grow noninterest income even as mortgage origination volume declined reflects the benefit of our diversified business model.
On a linked quarter basis we had strong fee growth in retail brokerage trust and investment management investment banking card commercial real estate brokerage mortgage servicing and insurance.
Our efficiency ratio improved as expected.
Our expenses declined driven by lower personnel costs which were partially offset by seasonally higher fourth quarter expenses for equipment and professional services as we continue to invest in our businesses and addressed evolving compliance and regulatory standards.
Let me now cover our business drivers in more detail.
As shown on Page 7 we had strong loan growth with period end loans up $26.2 billion or 3% from a year ago and up $13.5 billion from the third quarter or 7% annualized with broad-based growth across almost all of our portfolios.
Our liquidating portfolio continued to decline and is now less than 10% of total loans.
This is down from 22% at the time of the merger five years ago as we have reduced the size of this portfolio by $110 billion.
Excluding our liquidating portfolio our core portfolio grew by $39.8 billion or 6% from a year ago and was up $16.7 billion from the third quarter.
We have grown our loans on a year-over-year basis for 10 consecutive quarters and for the past seven quarters year-over-year growth has been at least 3% despite run-off from our liquidating portfolio.
On slide eight we highlight how broad-based our loan growth was in the fourth quarter.
Compared with the fourth quarter of 2012 foreign loans grew $9.9 billion or 26% and included growth in trade finance and a UK CRE acquisition we completed in the third quarter.
C&amp;I loans were up $9.4 billion or 5% as we successfully grew loans in asset-backed finance government banking and corporate banking.
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage loans grew $8.6 billion or 3% even with the run-off from our liquidating portfolio and included growth in high quality non-conforming mortgages.
Auto loans were up $4.8 billion or 10% reflecting record originations in 2013.
Credit card balances were up $2.2 billion or 9% with strong new account growth.
We generated strong deposit growth throughout the year and growth actually accelerated in the fourth quarter with average deposits growing $34.8 billion or 13% annualized from the third quarter.
This growth was diversified across our businesses with strong consumer and commercial growth while we continue to reduce our deposit costs which were down five basis points from a year ago to 11 basis points.
Demonstrating the strength of our deposit franchise we have successfully grown deposits while reducing our deposit costs for 13 consecutive quarters.
We also successfully grew primary consumer checking customers in the fourth quarter which were up a net 4.7% from a year ago an increase from 3.9% last quarter.
As shown on page 10 we grew tax equivalent net interest income from a year ago and from the third quarter.
In fact our NII this quarter was the highest it's been in five quarters.
Average earning assets grew $58.3 billion from the third quarter up 5% reflecting increases in short-term investments loans and investment securities.
Our ability to grow net interest income on both the linked quarter and year-over-year basis while our NIM declined is why we don't manage to the net interest margin but instead focus on growing net interest income.
Our NIM declined by 12 basis points from the third quarter to 3.26%.
This decline was driven by two primary factors.
First our continued strong customer-driven deposit growth which has little impact on net interest income but is dilutive to the NIM reduced the margin by six basis points.
The liquidity-related actions we took in the third and fourth quarter in response to increased regulatory liquidity expectations reduced the margin by six basis points.
Balance sheet re-pricing and growth and variable income did not impact the NIM in the fourth quarter.
While the factors that reduced the net interest margin in the fourth quarter were largely P&amp;L-neutral.
We expect they will continue to impact the NIM in the near-term.
Non-interest income increased $132 million from the third quarter with lower mortgage origination revenue offset by stronger trust and investment fees and higher mortgage servicing revenue.
While mortgage banking revenue was down $1.5 billion from the fourth quarter of 2012 we had strong momentum across a number of our other businesses.
Let me highlight some of the year-over-year increases we had in non-interest income.
Trust and investment fees were up $259 million with strong growth in brokerage asset-based fees growth in our trust and investment business and higher Investment Banking fees.
These businesses now account for 36% of our noninterest income up from 28% a year ago.
Card fees were up $91 million benefiting from strong account growth and increased usage in both our credit and debit card businesses.
Insurance was up $58 million from improved results in our crop insurance business.
Deposit service charges were up $33 million from a year ago benefiting from strong account growth and increased treasury management services to our commercial customers.
As expected our mortgage origination volume declined this quarter as highlighted on Page 12.
We originated $50 billion of mortgages in the fourth quarter down 38% from $80 billion in the third quarter.
Refis declined 32% of origination volume and purchases increased to 68% a significant mix shift from a year ago and we filed for 65% volume and purchases were only 35%.
Our unclosed pipeline declined to $25 billion at the end of the quarter down 29% from the third quarter.
While still early in the quarter we currently expect origination volumes in the first quarter to decline from the fourth quarter reflecting seasonality in the purchase market and lower refi volume but we expect the rate of decline slow from the levels we had in the third and the fourth quarter.
Our gain on sale margin was 1.77% in the fourth quarter up from the third quarter but lower than the historical elevated levels we experienced in the second half of 2012 and the first half of 2013.
While there are a lot of factors that impact the margin we currently expect margins in the near term to remain in the range we saw in the second half of 2013.
Reflecting the lower origination volume we had lower incentive compensation expenses related to mortgage production in the third quarter.
We also had lower personnel expenses reflecting a reduction of 5 300 mortgage FTEs we announced in the third quarter and additional reductions of approximately 1 150 FTEs announced in the fourth quarter.
The full quarter run rate of these lower FTEs will be reflected in expenses in the first quarter.
We reduced our retail mortgage fulfillment FTEs by nearly 50% since our peak staffing levels in the first quarter of 2013.
Our servicing revenue was up $205 million from the third quarter and up $459 million from a year ago as prepayment speeds have slowed.
We announced at the end of the quarter an agreement with Fannie Mae which was fully covered through previously established mortgage repurchase accruals that resolved substantially all repurchase liabilities related to loans originated prior to 2009.
Reflecting our agreement with Fannie Mae our outstanding repurchase demands were down 46% from the third quarter to $708 million.
As a reminder we announced last quarter a similar agreement with Freddie Mac.
So we have resolved substantially all agency repurchase demands for loans originated prior to 2009.
As a result outstanding repurchase demands were down $1.2 billion from a year ago and our repurchase reserve declined $899 million the lowest level since the second quarter of 2009.
Expenses were stable from the third quarter declining $17 million as shown on page 13.
Salary expense was down $99 million reflecting lower mortgage banking staffing and severance expense.
Incentive compensation expense was down $54 million driven by lower mortgage production revenue partially offset by higher investment banking and retail brokerage activity.
A number of our expenses are typically higher in the fourth quarter such as equipment expense which was up $96 million due to seasonally higher annual license renewals.
Our outside professional services increased to $131 million which included higher project related spending on business investments and compliance and regulatory related initiatives.
Our efficiency ratio improved to 58.5% in the quarter down 62 basis points.
While we have seasonally higher personnel costs in the first quarter we will have lower project spending and lower mortgage expenses reflecting a full quarter run rate from reduced staffing.
We expect that our efficiency ratio will remain within our target range of 55% to 59% in the first quarter.
Turning to our business segments starting on page 14.
Community banking earned $3.2 billion in the fourth quarter up 12% from a year ago and down 4% from the third quarter.
Retail banking continued to consistently grow cross-sell achieving a record 6.16 products per household up from 6.05 products a year ago.
Our credit card business continued to have strong results benefiting from seasonality and new account growth.
We grew new accounts by 29% from a year ago and household penetration increased to 37% up from 33% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Purchase volume grew 14% from a year ago.
Our auto business had an outstanding year with record originations in 2013 up 26% from a year ago.
This strong growth reflects the increase in sales and the benefit of our partnership with GM.
We remained focused on serving the needs of our small business customers as well.
We extended $18.9 billion of new loan commitments to small business customers during 2013 up 18% from 2012 and grew our primary business checking customers by a net 4.7% in the fourth quarter compared to about year ago.
Wholesale banking earned $2.1 billion in the fourth quarter up 4% from a year ago and up 7% from the third quarter.
These results reflected strong deposit and loan growth both up 7% from a year ago.
Loan growth was broad-based and included strong growth in asset-backed finance commercial real estate and international.
Our investment banking business continued to have strong growth with 2013 market share of 5.6% up from 5% in 2012.
This growth reflects the success we have had by focusing on relationships with investment banking revenue from wholesale banking customers up 22% in 2013 including a 16% increase in revenue from existing commercial and corporate customers.
Treasury management revenue was up 8% in 2013 reflecting strong sales growth and pricing increases.
We continually invest in this businesses' products and platforms and have been expanding our team of treasury sales experts because this is an important product for building relationships with our wholesale customers.
Our asset management business also had an outstanding year in 2013 with total assets under management up 8% reflecting net client inflows and increased market valuations.
Wealth brokerage and retirement earned $491 million in the fourth quarter up 40% from a year ago and 9% from the third quarter.
As you know this is a business that we have been focusing on and investing in since managing more of our customers' wealth that is an important part of our vision of meeting our customer's financial needs.
Our results benefited from the improvement in the markets and strong net flows.
WBR client assets grew 11% to $1.6 trillion from a year ago.
This growth was broad-based and included retail brokerage managed account assets of $375 billion up 23% and wealth management client assets of $218 billion up 7%.
Institutional Retirement plan assets grew 12% from a year ago.
We also had strong deposit and loan growth with average core deposits up 7% and average loans up 12% from a year ago.
Turning to credit on Page 17 the significant improvement we had in credit quality throughout 2013 continued.
With fourth quarter net charge-offs declining to only 47 basis points of average loans.
Loans in our commercial portfolio were only six basis points and consumer losses declined to 82 basis points.
We continue to have strong improvement in our commercial and residential real estate secured portfolios.
Our commercial real estate portfolios were once again in a net recovery position as they have been every quarter in 2013.
Our consumer real estate portfolios continued to benefit from the improvement in the housing market with losses down $918 million or 69% from a year ago.
Non-performing assets declined $1.1 billion from the third quarter and were down $4.9 billion or 20% from a year ago.
Both commercial and consumer non-accrual loans declined while foreclosed assets increased $135 million from the third quarter reflecting an increase in government insured foreclosed assets primarily driven by changes to loan modification programs which slowed foreclosures in prior quarter.
Reflecting the continued improvement in economic conditions we had a $600 million reserve release down $900 million last quarter.
Given current favorable conditions we expect future reserve releases absent a significant [duration] in the economy.
We grew our estimated common equity Tier 1 ratio under Basel III a 9.78% in the fourth quarter 78 basis points above our internal target of 9%.
While we have been building capital we have also been focused on returning more capital to our shareholders.
We increased our dividend by 31% in 2013 and purchased 124 million shares.
We remain committed to returning more capital to our shareholders and our 2014 capital plan requested an increasing in our dividend and share repurchases compared with our 2013 capital plan.
Of course our request is subject to Fed review and nonobjection.
In summary our results in the fourth quarter and throughout 2013 were outstanding.
We grew loans and deposits increased our capital liquidity levels and reduced risk as our diversified businesses generated double-digit earnings and EPS growth.
In addition we return $11.4 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
While the future is never certain we start 2014 in a much better position than we started 2013.
The slow and steady growth we had in 2013 positions the U.S.
economy for continued growth in 2014.
We successfully settled many outstanding issues during 2013 including pre-2009 agency repurchase demands agency MBS securitization and the independent foreclosure review.
We also have more clarity regarding Basel III capital requirements and have taken actions in response to increased regulatory liquidity expectations.
We believe that we never been positioned better and we are excited about the opportunities ahead for our customers our team members and our shareholders.
We will now open up the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
Just circling back on the efficiency ratio and I guess specifically on the expenses here.
As we think about entering 2014 what kind of growth expense base you have got $12.1 billion roughly there is some seasonal factor as some of the mortgage cost that need to come out.
How should we think about that in a static revenue environment? Well I wouldn't worry about it being a static revenue environment.
Our goal is to grow revenues over time and I think we have been able to do that notwithstanding some of the challenges we have had.
Matt we are really focused as we think about our expenses on revenue efficiency and the efficiency ratio how much it costs us to deliver a $1 in revenue.
We were very pleased to be able to improve our efficiency to 58.5% again down 62 basis points from the third quarter and down almost 30 basis points from the fourth quarter of last year.
I think when you think about the fourth quarter efficiency in expenses we did call out that we had some seasonal expenses that boosted the total expenses in the fourth quarter.
We talked about some of the equipment expenses as well as some of the professional fees.
As you think about the first quarter our expectation is that we will be able to operate within our range of 55% to 59% and believe that over the year we can continue to improve that from the first quarter.
I do think we will have some benefit in the first quarter from lower seasonal expenses as we mentioned.
We will also have some benefit from a lower run rate of expenses in the mortgage business but overall again we are very focused on the efficiency ratio and we continue to believe that we can make improvements.
And this is just a follow-up.
Can you remind us what needs to happen to get to the lower end of the 55% to 59%? Obviously it's a range and you can show continued progress but that 55% will that depend on a materially different macro environment or you can get there executing just what you can control? Well it's a fair point Matt because we look at the efficiency ratio its going to be a function of expense dollars as well as revenue.
I think to get to the low end of that range we will need to see the combination of both in crew expenses and lower expenses which we think we can do over time but also with improved revenue.
That said if the revenue takes off and the dollar amount of our expenses are up and our efficiency ratio improves that's fine too.
Just sneaking a quick one here.
On the equity investment book can you just remind us how big it is and is there any impact from Volcker on that portfolio? Yes.
A good question.
Overall let me answer it maybe a little bit broader question and that is that as we look at the final Volcker rules there aren't any real significant and material changes that we need to make in any of our businesses to comply.
Obviously there is going to be increased reporting and things like that.
The only the product business line that's really impacted which is the [of your] question is the portion of our equity portfolio that's made up of limited partnership investment that's a little bit less than $2 billion.
We stopped making those investments a few years ago when the first draft of the Volcker Rule came out and so that portfolio is liquidating down in the normal course.
From time-to-time we could potentially do some sales from that portfolio but we don't believe that compliance with Volcker and the liquidation of that portfolio in the normal course will have a material impact on our financial results.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Our next question will come from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Hi.
Good morning Tim.
I was wondering if you could give a little bit of color on the net interest margin and interest income outlook and your thoughts.
I think you said you expect some ongoing pressure on the NIM.
I am wondering if you could give us some of the puts and takes on that.
How does the recent rise in a 10-year yield help you as you reinvest and then where are you on the liquidity actions? Do you still need to pick more there? Obviously the rules aren't finish but if you could give us a feel for your progress there.
I will answer your question in maybe reverse order.
Maybe start with liquidity.
Let me just step back and frame that a little bit because you have seen us take some liquidity action in the third and the fourth quarter.
Set the rules aside for a minute and that is that first and foremost we have got to be able to operate this company with sufficient liquidity to be able to withstand stressed environments both in terms of an economic downturn as well as an economic expansion.
I think we have been able to demonstrate our success in doing that as we went through the last downturn so the short answer is that we think that the existing liquidity we have as a company is sufficient to manage the business.
Having said that there are a couple of standards that are out there.
First there's is the international standard and I can't comfortably tell you that we have exceeded the international LCR standards.
Unfortunately I can't tell where we stand as it relates to the domestic rules because they haven't been finalized yet.
The NPR was issued in the fourth quarter as you know.
It's out for comment right now.
I think it's fair to say that you generally the current NPR is a little bit more conservative than most of the folks in industry have [got] and so in an anticipation of finalizing the domestic rules the way that I would think about it is we have changed the complexion of our liquidity and what I mean by that is we have increased some of our longer term deposits.
You saw us do that in the third quarter and the fourth quarter and then we issued some additional debt in the third quarter so we have made a lot of progress in terms of complying with rules that haven't been finalized yet.
The other thing that I would mentioned is that there is a lot of good dialogue that's going on right now in terms of those rules and it's likely that there will be some changes.
Then lastly I would point out that our expectation is the compliance period as it relates to those standards theirs is going to be elongated meeting.
We need to get to about 80% compliance by the end of this year beginning of next year so a long-winded overview but I think what we have been able to demonstrate as we have changed the complexion of our liquidity and anticipated the final rules is that we can still deliver record earnings and we can still grow net interest income and that's really good segue into the first part of your question which is the net interest margin.
The net interest margin was down 12 basis points and the most of that was related to liquidity or deposits as we mentioned.
In fact all of that was.
Half of it was we had great deposit growth.
You have seen that over the last 16 quarters we have had great deposit growth long-term that is a terrific thing from our perspective and will take that impact on NIM all day long.
Then the other half was related to the full quarter impact of liquidity actions that we took in the third quarter plus the liquidity actions that we took in the fourth quarter.
So again a reduction to the NIM but we have been able to grow net interest income.
So how were we able to do that with the NIM declining? Well the good news is we had $13.5 billion dollars of point-to-point loan growth which is absolutely terrific.
I can't promise you we will have that every quarter but not only is it terrific but results very broad-based as I mentioned.
And then also our securities did grow and candidly we are in a much better position today than we were six months ago or a year ago or a year and a half ago in terms of the reinvestment yields that we can achieve today versus the rolloff in the existing portfolio.
I can't tell you today because of the valley that occurred over last few days but they we will get pretty close.
So over time as we have said over the last few quarters we believe that we continue to grow net interest income.
Okay great and then the second question is on capital return and John mentioned your request to do more of this year than last year on capital return.
When I think back here April 2012 Investor Day you laid out a goal for a total payout ratio of a range of 50% to 65%.
I was wondering if anything has changed with you now exceeding your Basel III capital targets.
Industry asset growth still seems sluggish such that you might reconsider at some point the upper bound of that target and at some point you will stop paying out more than 65% of total earnings? Yes it's a fair question.
The short answer is no.
We haven't changed that range of 50% to 65%.
Part of the reason is that we are not at the high end of that range yet.
So we are going to take it one step at a time.
Clearly we thought the payout that we had in 2013 was a pretty significant increases as we talked about.
On a gross basis f $11.4 billion.
Something that we are very very proud of and there are as John mentioned and as I mentioned our capital plans submission requested an increase from that.
So we are hopeful to continue to make progress on that subject to the Fed review but it is something John that we are going to continue to look at.
But that that 50% to 65% is not etched in stone forever.
It's going to change just like it has changed throughout our history.
John I don't know if you -- Yes I think that's a really important point.
It was a year and half when we came up with that.
We are still there but those things change over time and as we continue to build liquidity and capital we are not bound by that.
And we are very shareholder friendly here.
I think you know and our investors have known it for a long time.
But John I would add Maybe this is a bit of an advertisement for our Investor Day that's going to be in May.
We might change that.
So let it be a good reason to come.
Okay and you are kind of inflecting you are not reducing the share count on a net basis tenure overcoming option issue and things like that.
Do you expect that to continue with a net reduction in shares? Yes we do.
Again I can't promise it will exactly happen every quarter but my guess is it probably will.
But I think we reached the high point in the second quarter of last year and we have been very clear that our expectation is to continue to reduce that share count.
So that's our plan John.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Good morning.
Good morning Erika.
I just wanted to take a step back.
John Wells Fargo has been able to post pretty good point-to-point loan growth even with demand in the industry for loans being humdrum.
That being said as we look out to 2014 have we hit an inflection point in terms of loan demand on both the corporate side and the consumer side? Inflection meaning that loan growth is? Grown demand in both the corporate side and the consumer side loan demand didn't start picking up for the industry generally.
I think there will be some loan growth at the industry level.
I am much more confident about our ability to grow loans just based on what we have done in the past what we have done this past quarter.
But I will tell you I am hearing more when I talk with customers about their interest in building something adding something investing in something.
So there is more activity going on I would say it's going to be a watershed moment but yes I am optimistic about the economy.
I mean we sit here this January at an economy and frankly as a company in better shape and I have said here in the last five or six Januarys so yes I am [proudly] optimistic about the industry and optimistic about our company able to grow loans and over time grow revenues.
Got it.
Tim in terms of the future impact of incremental liquidity actions I know the NPR in the U.S.
is (Inaudible) but is it fair for us to assume that the bulk of future liquidity actions won't impact your margin as much as the six basis point this quarter? I would love to be able to tell you absolutely but since we don't know what the final rules are I want to be careful so I can't give you a specific answer.
I think the important thing is should you have confidence in A our ability to move forward to try to anticipate some of those rules and not have it impact our net interest income or our earnings the answer is yes.
Got it.
If I could sneak one last question in here is it fair for us to look at the 12% quarter-over-quarter drop that the NBIA is forecasting for origination volume and it seems that the drop that Wells Fargo will experience next quarter be similar on a sequential basis? I don't know if I would jump to that conclusion.
Our mix is a little bit different or can be a little bit different on average compared to the industry in any given quarter.
I think it's reasonable to assume that there will be a client because of the impact of just the colder winter months as well as the fact that the volume is really driven much more by purchase activity now than it was by refinanced.
We expect the decline but to be specific in terms of the magnitude decline I don't know what that's going to be.
Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Morford with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Joe.
I guess first is just a follow-up a clarification from Erika's question.
The loan growth in the core portfolio strengthened quite a bit this quarter to $16.7 billion from $8.6 billion.
I understand that's fairly broad-based but how sustainable do you think that is as we go through 2014 here? Joe it's a fair question.
I think when you say the 8.6 you are talking about the 8.6 from a year ago? No.
The third quarter.
Just the sequential core growth in the core loan portfolio.
The good news is that as you mentioned that the growth was very broad-based.
Again in almost every one of our loan portfolios with the exception of home equity where we are still originating a good quality home equity loans.
I don't know if I would take this quarter and say this is what we are going to do every quarter from here on out I think even last year when you axe out the impact from some of the tax changes that folks were anticipating the fourth quarter can tends to be a pretty strong quarter.
Our expectation for 2014 is that we are going to grow loans.
What rate that will be? I don't know but certainly the fact that this quarter was so broad-based I think it is a good indication of our ability to grow loans at a faster rate than we did in 2013.
Again I think the other point to make about loan growth in this quarter is that is that we didn't have any acquisitions driving that growth.
This was all organic not that there is anything wrong with acquisition.
We love them but that was a bigger driver in the third quarter that was in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Then the other question was just wondering if you could kind of broadly speak about kind of key areas for investment in 2014 and along those lines what are your plans for the branch network given the growth in mobile banking and your recent piloted the neighborhood stores? Joe we are making a lot of investments in technology as customers are interested in mobile and in other ways to access us.
We still believe that stores are important and we believe that because our customers tell us that and we do have that pilot that you mentioned and we are assessing that looking at that.
We will build stores this year.
I don't think there will be a significant net increase because sometimes we build a new one and we consolidate one or two into that but most of the investments we are going to be making will be in areas like product and convenience for customers.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Our next question will come from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
Hi guys.
we know the mortgage market is on a downward trend.
It looks the market is down another 25% but you guys were down more than that I think north of 30% and now your market share has dropped down to 17% and I also know that you guys have done a lot of refis and a lot of that is the refi side.
I know you don't really model the market share but do you see continued declines in that mortgage space? Then secondly do you think that Mel Watt could be a game changer relative to opening up the credit box maybe with some of these going down the FICO score? Yes Paul a good question.
We have talked on a number of occasions about how our market share over the last couple of years was disproportionately high primarily because the biggest driver for origination volume until the last couple of quarters was refinances and the reason for that again to remind everybody is that we are the largest servicer and the quality of our servicing book was the highest in the industry.
So we had many more opportunities than most to be able to meet the needs of our customers by refinancing existing customers by refinancing their mortgages.
So it's not surprising and something that we had been indicating was going to occur as the percentage of refinance volume declined in absolute dollars as well as the percentage of the total decline that our market share would go down.
I think as we get to a more purchase driven market we actually think we have got a great opportunity to grow the business because we have the biggest retail network and sales force in the market.
So we believe that we can grow over time but again the focus is not about market share the focus is about generating appropriate revenue making sure that we are meeting the needs of our customers and doing that very efficiently.
So again we are very excited about the transition into a purchase driven market because we got the best team and the largest team that's out there.
Paul with respect to Mel Watt we are looking forward to working with him.
We know him and I believe he has the same interest we all have as Americans and as our institution has make mortgage lending and money available to creditworthy Americans so they can buy houses.
He already is digging in.
He has put the increase to GP just on hold so he can understand.
So we are all looking forward to working with him.
I mean do you think the government could make some adjustments there to get the industry to maybe open up the credit box more than it is right now? Well I still believe there are some mixed messages coming out of Congress or Washington I should say and if we can all get on the same page that would be helpful.
I think there some movement happening in that direction but we will just continue to work on that.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
Our next question will come from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Great thanks.
Most of my questions have actually been answered.
But just following up a little on the mortgage business.
You have alluded to us in a couple of different narrations but given how rapid that decline in refinance has been and it is likely to continue are there any either other steps that you taking or strategic opportunities that you seek on in the business over the next couple of quarters? Well you know we announced recently that we are going to be doing some portfolio lending for jumbos and high-end and we have an emphasis on that.
And as you know housing is an uniquely important asset class for Americans and uniquely important for recovery.
So no recovery for housing in that play a leadership role and that's part of my optimism for the future and that housing is getting better and that we are seeing more activity on the purchase side which is really good for America so we will continue to make complying loans.
We are also doing more with respect to our balance sheet.
Is there just anything with respect to kind of integrating it somewhat more directly with the consumer bank? Well I will tell you they are really - all hands are on deck there.
I don't recall the exact percentage but it might be 30% or so but whatever mortgage we do get customer referrals from our bankers so it's a big card.
It's very integrated and actually when you have a purchased money market that actually plays to our strengths because we are so actively involved with builders realtors and there is a lot of referral activity that goes on to help serve those customers.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Good morning.
Hi Mike.
Hi Mike.
Just first a tactical question the changes that accretable yield on purchased credit impaired loans so this is back around page 33 34 35 of the news release or in the back section of it but the drawdown there the changes in accretable yield I thought it would be drawn down even a little bit more in the fourth quarter.
It seems like it's been drawn down a lot year-over-year but the last quarter it wasn't drawn down a lot.
Just conceptually I thought the better credit quality for some of these problem loans the more you can realize and recover to earnings and it looks like it slowed in the fourth quarter.
Can you just give some color on that accounting and what you think? Mike there wasn't any major changes that occurred from an accounting standpoint in the fourth quarter.
As you know from time-to-time we have look at the amount of our accretable yield and non- accretable difference and made some adjustments.
We did not do that in the fourth quarter so I would just describe the fourth quarter as just a reflection of just changes within the underlying customer mix.
We had more customers that were paying their loans and then paid off but there was nothing major that occurred in the fourth quarter.
How can you take a look at that? Because isn't it the case that with better credit quality that you would tend to realize some gains over time? Mike it's something that we think about and talk about a lot but from a process point of view we review it on a quarterly basis to make an affirmative decision in terms of the amount of the non-accretable difference and the non-accretable yield in terms of whether or not we make any changes but that's the quarterly update that we do.
Mike you know as we make those determinations it then accretes over the life of the assets so it's a long event if you will over 12 13 14 years whatever the life those assets is that how it accretes in.
I think the important point just to remember is that when you turned the clock back five years ago I think there was a lot of skepticism in terms of whether or not the right marks were taken at the time of the Wells Fargo and Wachovia combination and then there was a lot of concerns about the portfolio.
As you know the accretable yield has actually increased over that period of time so we have $19.1 billion that's expected to accrete over the remaining life of loans.
We are very excited about that.
Then a separate question so what you can control and what you can't control let's go to what you can control and that's the economy and you guys had talked about that some.
What's the line utilization for commercial or wholesale in the most recent quarter? It hasn't really changed a whole lot.
It's still about or in the mid-30s but that wasn't a major driver for loan growth in the quarter.
At some point we will get to the point where there's a little bit more utilization but that's been pretty stable in the mid-30s.
Then separate from the market share I know Wells would like to continue to gain.
You seem more optimistic on economy but line utilization hasn't really changed.
It sounds like fourth quarter you had some good loan growth but maybe it won't be quite as strong seasonally strong so do you really feel the economy is that much stronger or John you said the best January in five to six years.
Are you thinking next couple of quarters next couple years? What drives you to that conclusion? Yes.
When I was talking about the best January that's compared to the five January's.
I have sat and had this kind of conversation with you.
Our merger is done.
Capital liquidity credit legal issues view on regulatory all better.
Deposit growth loan growth cross-sell the engagement of the team.
So all of those things are better.
Am I saying there is a full recovery and there is going to be a watershed moment this year? No.
I am not saying that but I am saying that uncertainty here more things from more prospects and customers about buying a car building a house starting a business adding new product lines.
There is certainties to at least some that.
Couple of years I didn't even hear about that.
So its going to be a breakout year but we are going to see steady improvement and that's good for even now as rates rise in response to that which is a normal thing that reduces the refinance volume.
The other side of that is improving credit which improves a lot of things.
So that's good for America and good for our company over the long-term.
And then lastly what you certainly can control.
I know you are proud of having 16 quarters in row of higher EPS growth but I down imagine you expect this level of equity investment gains to continue or this level of reserve releases to continue.
You called out some seasonal expenses but how do you expect to continue that progression? What should be the main drivers? Yes Mike look we are not going to promise you that we are going to have a seventeenth consecutive quarter.
We hope we do but the fact of matter is the complexion of every quarter is different.
We could have that we and I think we probably did have the same conversation about a year ago how are we going to be able to grow and when we think about what the company has accomplished over this last year in the face of a significant backup in interest rates that had a big impact on one of our businesses we were able to deliver record earnings.
How were we able to do that? We grew our loans.
We grew our investments.
We grew our deposits.
If you look at noninterest income outside of mortgage origination we went through a laundry list of five or six businesses and there are more that were up and most of those were up double digits.
We have improved our efficiency and John has mentioned we think we can continue to make progress there and credit continues to improve.
Will we have our loan loss reserve release in the first quarter of $600 million? I don't know.
We do think we are going to have future loan loss reserve releases.
So the fact of the matter is that what we have been able to demonstrate in the fourth quarter and all of 2013 is our diversified model works even in the face of headwind and as John mentioned it doesn't seem like there is as many headwinds out there than there were a year ago in January.
So we are very excited of our ability to continue to grow earnings.
Whether that means 17 18 or 19 quarters? I don't know.
But over time we are going to grow earnings at this company.
Thank you.
Next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Hi good morning guys.
On the brokerage businesses the business this year the trust and investment fees grew 13% when you have a nice correlation.
Just wondering especially with the lag built-in on some of the pricing of the fee base how confident do you feel that you can sustain that kind of mid-teens type of growth rate in that part of the company? Yes Ken a good question.
I don't know if I would focus on a specific growth rate.
We do think we can continue to grow and its going to be a function of the fact there is a little bit of a lag in terms of how the business is priced and paid for.
The wealth brokerage and retirement business has done a great job in terms of increasing the percentage of their recurring fee revenue.
I think it's now above 75% and that was the goal that David Carroll set out at our Investor Day a couple of years ago.
So we do think we can continue to grow.
What the growth rate will be? I don't know but in addition one of the other things that we talked about at Investor Day a couple of years ago was the partnership between the WBR and our retail bank and that partnership continues to work very well from a referral basis.
So that business is performing very very well.
Our expectation is that it will continue to grow.
I hope that it continues to grow at a double-digit rate but can't promise you that.
Okay.
Our expectations are pretty high there because we are starting from a lower base.
And if you look at size of our retail franchise versus the size of the wealth brokerage and retirement we have lot of upside.
As Tim mentioned the partnership especially between any bank and Wells Fargo's retirement couldn't be better and there is just tons of opportunity there so it's opportunity for the company.
Okay.
Great.
Secondly with regard to the rate sensitivity you guys did disclose your rate disclosures a little different than most others do and I am just wondering with regards to the liquidity preparation and the changes you have made and you have referred to earlier how if it all any rules on liquidity side change at all your assets sensitivity when and if you someday we get the front-end moving? Maybe I will just leave it there.
Good question.
Really given the amount of liquidity build that we had in the third quarter it didn't have a material impact on our total balance sheet.
Did effect net interest margin as we mentioned so it really doesn't have a big impact on our interest rate sensitivity.
I mean we have experienced that the biggest impact that we could have to the company from an interest rate sensitivity standpoint when you think about the impact that we had in the third and fourth quarter from the rate rise in the impact on the mortgage business we are very sensitive to a rise in the short rate which I know everybody believes will never happen but some day it will and that will be beneficial to us.
Okay.
Great.
Then last just quick question.
The tax rate has been running a little bit lower.
Do you have any thoughts on just what we should be thinking about as far as the future tax rate? Thanks guys.
Yes.
The tax rate for the fourth quarter was 30.9%.
That was a little bit higher than the fourth quarter of last year.
Our expectation for this year is that our tax rate will be plus or minus what has been this year.
Maybe just a little bit higher but I guess not that it shouldn't have a material impact on our results.
Regina we will begin with the next question.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Mutascio with KBW.
Good morning John and Tim.
How are you? Hi.
Chris.
How are you doing? I am doing well.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Just two quick follow-up questions on the professional services cost that you highlighted being about 130 or so million higher on a sequential quarter basis.
Then you broke that into different kind of buckets project spending and then also compliance and maybe regulatory related spend.
Can you breakdown those two different buckets that calls the $130 million increase? Then just as a follow-up how much of the compliance and regulatory related part of that is permanent or is not permanent? Yes.
Some really good question.
One of the challenges that we have is that some of the investment that we are making say for a project impacts both is the investment in the business but also it's going to have a regulatory or compliance nature to it so I don't have any detail handy to break that down but it's not exactly how we think about it.
I will tell you that as we mentioned last quarter that our compliance and regulatory costs are up year-over-year and we are in the process right now of making sure that we got the best risk managed the company in the industry so there will be some continued investment that we will need to make there.
Having said that how much of that is permanent and how much is kind of a one or two time-type investment I don't have an answer for you so I apologize for not being able to provide some real specifics there but again to repeat I do think you will see a decline in the professional services line in the first quarter.
Okay.
That's fair enough.
A separate question.
The net charge-off ratio was pretty stable with third quarter.
I was kind of wondering did you think we finally has have had four on that ratio or could there have been some year-end cleanup in fourth quarter that would lead you to believe that maybe the charge-offs could go even lower in the first quarter.
I don't know for sure.
Here's the way I would think about it.
I will give you two numbers that made up the 47 basis points.
The losses that we had in our commercial portfolio were about six basis points.
We think we have got a great team that's very good at making loans on the commercial side but having a loss rate of six basis points is probably not something that's going to happen forever.
So I think there's probably over time not necessarily in the first quarter some pressure there.
On the other hand the losses in our consumer portfolio were about 82 basis points.
Now when you think about the composition of the consumer portfolio clearly there is some portion of that portfolio that's going to have higher loss rates like credit card.
That's an area that we are building over time.
On the other hand when you look at some of the other consumer businesses we are not originating loans today that are going to generate 82 basis points of loss in the next year or two years.
We are originating high quality loan.
So my guess is there is probably a little bit more pressure over time and the commercial loss rate to go up and the consumer loss rate could go down.
Again when you look at that 82 basis points the disproportionate share continues to come from our home equity portfolio which among all the portfolios is really benefiting from the improvement in underlying residential real estate values.
Fair enough.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Your next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby with Guggenheim Securities.
Hi I wanted to ask you two lines of questioning.
First on the share count.
If you look at the repurchase volume that you have been able to do share count is holding relatively flat.
I was curious if you thought as you increased repurchase going forward do you think the share count can start to come down? And then I wanted to ask you one more question about that.
Marty in fact the share count has been down from the high in the second quarter of last year and the short answer to your question is yes.
The primary driver there is going to be the level of our share repurchases.
We increased our share repurchases this year over last year.
We have submitted a capital plan which calls for a request for more share repurchase.
So the short answer again is yes.
We think we can bring that down over time.
The impact of equity compensation would you think the dilution that you do have that offsets some of the share repurchase.
Would that be more from issuance or more from market price appreciation? Well it's a complicated answer to a straight forward question and recall that we changed our options program a couple of years ago or a few years ago.
So the impact of that is going to decline.
On the other hand we will continue to have a good portion of our incentive compensation around here based upon our equity because we believe that that aligns our team members with our shareholders.
So the fact that that is there is very important to us and hopefully you will appreciate it's important to you but I don't imagine that that's going to have a significant change to the share count calculation.
The primary driver there is going to be our ability to repurchase more shares and again we think we can increase that over time.
Okay other kind of area I want to delve into was asset sensitivity.
Earlier questions were kind of starting to allude to that but as you have seen this outsize deposit growth that you have been able to attract you have been really pushing that more and more into cash.
So that does make you more asset sensitive than probably your just overall measure with look and then also as longer term rate start to go up you can begin to be able to restructure the portfolio a little bit.
You have got excess capital.
There is going to be some opportunities to accelerate asset sensitivity by restructuring as well.
So just thought you could think about a few of those kind of tactics or other things that might make you be more asset sensitive than you look on the cover of your reports.
Well you are absolutely correct.
We are very asset sensitive.
The disproportionate share of our loan portfolio is floating-rate in an environment where the short-end of the curve starts to increase which at some point it will.
We believe that that will be a net addition to revenues because our loans will probably reprice faster than our deposits.
You have seen that before with Wells Fargo in prior cycles.
In terms of the investment portfolio you are also correct in that given the back up in rates and the current yields that we are getting off our portfolio we can get much more attractive returns that are more or less about what the runoff is right now.
Not exactly but as rates continue to rise it's going to make those returns even more attractive and we will get some benefit from a revenue standpoint there so we think we are positioned fairly well for the environment that we are likely to be in over the next few years which is in the short-term probably an increase in the long end of the curve.
I don't know by how much but it probably will increase.
Then in the next year to two years an increased short end.
Then lastly John you mentioned the mortgage portfolio and increasing the volume there.
With the GDPs going up here shortly especially on a higher quality customers those low GDPs historically have pushed us to origination and servicing versus portfolio and mortgages but it seems like you are really looking at that as an opportunity especially with the steep yield curve to add some assets plus value especially as mortgage rates relatively adjusted to these new GDPs.
That's right.
My understanding is the latest increase in GDPs is the one that would suggest it has actually been put on a hold for a bit but absent that yes we think there is opportunity here to serve a customer base through portfolio lending and we have done that for a long time but there's opportunities here and we sure want to serve that customer base.
Thanks.
Thanks Marty.
Our final question will come from the line of Keith Murray with ISI.
Hi.
Hi Keith.
Hi Keith.
I just wanted to ask what's your home price assumptions as you think about sizing the mortgage business and on the credit side as well what do you assume for home prices for '14? We think probably a lot where most economists are in the range of 3% to 5% increase if you look broadly.
Now I think what you are seeing is some more regionalization going on in residential real estate so I mean I live in San Francisco.
It's been stronger here than for example than in the Central Valley but housing is getting better generally everywhere but I think 3% to 5% is a pretty safe range.
Okay.
Then just going back to the payout ratio specifically on dividends you were right at 30% for 2013 on dividend payout.
As you think about approaching this year's CCAR what are you comfortable with on the dividend payout ratio? I know above 30% gets you extra scrutiny.
How do you think about the dividend payout? Well I can just repeat what Tim and I have said is that the submission is in.
It's our request to do more on dividends and repurchase.
It's in with the fed right now.
We will all know here in another six weeks or so so let's just wait for that time and see when that comes out.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
I want to thank everybody for joining us I very much appreciate your interest in our company and the questions and we will see you next quarter.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo first quarter earnings conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Rowe you may begin your conference.
Great.
Thank you Regina and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today where our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf and our CFO Tim Sloan will discuss first quarter results and answer your questions.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that our first quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at wellsfargo.com.
I would also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.
Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can also be found in our SEC filings in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website.
I will now turn our call over to our John Stumpf Chairman and CEO.
Thank you Jim and thanks to everyone for joining us today.
We earned a record earnings per share of $1.05 in the first quarter which was our 17th consecutive quarter of EPS growth.
Wells Fargo's ability to grow consistently across a variety of economic and interest rate environments demonstrates the benefit of our diversified business model and our unwavering focus on our vision of meeting all of our customers' financial needs and helping them succeed financially.
Our financial results have strong capital generation and returning more capital to our shareholders has remained a priority.
We are extremely pleased that our 2014 capital plan allows us to increase our common stock dividend by 17% subject to Board approval of course and also increase our common stock repurchases in 2014.
We are proud of the fact that we have been able to increase our dividend and share repurchases every year since 2011 while we have continued to grow our capital levels.
Let me now highlight our growth during the quarter compared with a year ago.
We generated earnings of $5.9 billion and EPS of the $1.05 both up 14% from a year ago.
We had strong and broad-based loan growth up $28 billion or 4%.
Our credit performance continued to improve with total net charge-offs down $594 million or 42% from a year ago and net charge-offs were only 41 basis points of average loans this quarter.
Our outstanding deposit franchise continued to generate strong growth with total deposits up $83.8 billion or 8%.
We deepened relationships across our company achieving record retail banking cross sell of 6.17 products per household.
Wholesale banking increased cross sell to 7.2 products and wealth brokerage and retirement cross sell was 10.42 products.
We remain focused on reducing expenses with our efficiency ratio declining to 57.9% down 40 basis points from a year ago.
We increased our returns growing return on assets by eight basis points to 1.57% and return on equity by 76 basis points to 14.35%.
We continued to generate strong capital growth with our estimated common equity Tier 1 under Basel III advance approach which was over 10%.
Our results not only demonstrate the strength of our diversified business model but also the benefit of an improving economy.
While economic growth during the first quarter was uneven economic activity improved later in the quarter including national auto sales which reached a seven-year high in March.
Employment also increased in March for the 42nd consecutive month one of the longest periods of sustained growth ever and consumer confidence hit a six year high.
The housing recovery remained on track and should benefit from the spring buying season.
I am optimistic about future economic growth because consumers and businesses have continued to improve their financial conditions.
Households have reduced their leverage to the lowest level since 2001 and the burden of their financial obligations is lower than at any time since the mid-1980s.
Also businesses are well-positioned to hire and invest with ample supplies of cash.
As always Wells Fargo is ready to help all of our customers to meet their financial needs through our diversified product line and financial advice.
I want to conclude by highlighting the management changes we announced last week.
Dave Hoyt who has been with Wells Fargo for over 32 years is retiring in June.
Dave and his exceptional team of leaders have built a wholesale banking business which is well-positioned for continued growth.
Tim Sloan who you all know has been an excellent d financial and strategic leader for Wells Fargo and had previously spent 22 years in the wholesale banking group and is perfectly suited to continue wholesale banking's commitment to serving customers as he becomes the head of wholesale banking.
John Shrewsberry will join me as CFO on our earnings call next quarter who has deep understanding of our financial and business operations as well as our shareholder expectations through his 20 years of proven leadership including heading Wells Fargo securities with responsibility for investment banking capital markets trading and investment research businesses.
John will be supported in his new role by a strong and talented finance team.
These changes demonstrate the deep bench of high caliber leaders at Wells Fargo which I believe is the best team in banking.
Tim will now provide more details on our first quarter.
Tim? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
My comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly supplement starting on page two.
John and I will then answer your questions.
Wells Fargo earned a record $5.9 billion in the first quarter up 5% from the fourth quarter.
Our record earnings per share of $1.05 was also up 5% from last quarter.
This was our 17th consecutive quarter of earnings per share growth and our 12th consecutive quarter of record EPS reflecting the benefit of our diversified business model.
As John highlighted and as you can see on page three we had strong year-over-year growth in the fundamental drivers of our business in commercial and consumer loans deposits cross sell credit expense management which resulted in growth in net income capital and earnings per share and produce higher returns on assets and equity.
I will highlight the drivers of our growth which create long-term value for our shareholders throughout the call.
Page four highlights our revenue diversification which is once again evenly split between net interest income and non-interest income.
The drivers of our fee income however can differ depending on the interest rate and economic environment.
For example mortgage originations were 6% of our fee income this quarter down from 23% a year ago when the refinance market was strong.
Other businesses such as equity investments brokerage and mortgage servicing contributed more to fee income this quarter demonstrating the benefit of our diversified business model.
Let me start by highlighting some of the key drivers of our first quarter results from a balance sheet and income statement perspective starting on page five.
We had strong linked quarter growth in both loans and deposits.
We are especially pleased with this performance since first quarter is generally a seasonally weaker quarter for growth.
Loans increased $4.1 billion from the fourth quarter after increasing only $392 million on a linked quarter basis a year ago.
Deposits grew by $15.4 billion compared with $7.9 billion on a linked quarter basis a year ago.
The improving economy and high quality loan originations continued to benefit credit quality with net charge-offs declining to 41 basis points.
Turning to the income statement on page six.
Net interest income declined as we expected reflecting the two fewer days in the quarter and lower income from variable sources.
Non-interest income increased in the quarter reflecting higher retail brokerage asset-based fees mortgage servicing income and market sensitive revenue.
This growth was partially offset by seasonally lower deposit service charges and card fees and lower mortgage production revenue.
Our expenses declined from the fourth quarter.
While we had seasonally higher personnel expenses we had lower deferred compensation expense salary expense and revenue-based incentive compensation.
Equipment professional services and advertising expenses all declined from elevated levels in the fourth quarter.
Our results this quarter included a $423 million discreet tax benefit primarily from a reduction in the reserve for uncertain tax positions due to the resolution of prior period matters with state taxing authorities.
This lowered our income tax expense by $227 million compared with last quarter and reduced our effective income tax rate to 27.9%.
Let me now cover our business drivers in more detail.
As shown on page seven we continued to have strong loan growth in the first quarter our 12th consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth.
Period end loans were up $28 billion or 4% from a year ago.
Our liquidating portfolio continued to decline down $12.8 billion from a year ago and down $2.9 billion from the fourth quarter.
Excluding our liquidating portfolio our core portfolio grew by $40.8 billion or 6% from a year ago and was up $7 billion from the fourth quarter.
On page eight we highlight how broad-based our loan growth continued to be.
C&amp;I loans were up $12.7 billion or 7% from a year ago as we successfully grew loans in asset-backed finance corporate banking and government and institutional banking.
Foreign loans grew $7.2 billion or 18% from a year ago reflecting growth in trade finance and the U.K.
CRE acquisition we completed in the third quarter.
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage loans grew $7.2 billion or 3% with growth in high quality nonconforming mortgages.
Auto loans were up $5.3 billion or 11% reflecting increased auto sales and record originations.
Credit card balances were up $1.9 billion or 8% with record new account growth.
Deposit growth also remained strong in the first quarter with average deposits growing $91.1 billion or 9% from a year ago and up $16.9 billion from the fourth quarter.
This increase reflected solid growth across our businesses particularly our consumer businesses and an increase in liquidity related term deposits.
Primary consumer checking customers were up 5.1% from a year ago up from 4.7% in the fourth quarter.
We have steadily increased the growth rate of this higher cross sell more profitable customer base over the past four quarters through product enhancements and consistent focus.
As shown on page 10 tax-equivalent net interest income increased $157 million from a year ago even though our net interest margin declined 29 basis points reflecting the benefit of lower funding costs.
Net interest income declined from the fourth quarter as expected primarily from two fewer days in the quarter and lower variable income.
Our net interest margin declined by seven basis points from the fourth quarter to 3.2% driven by three primary factors.
Lower income from variable sources reflecting lower PCI resolutions reduced the NIM by four basis points customer driven deposit growth reduced the NIM by two basis points and the liquidity actions that we took in the fourth quarter in response to increased regulatory liquidity expectations reduced the margin by one basis point.
While our deposit growth and liquidity actions reduced our NIM they had minimal impact on net interest income.
Like last quarter balance sheet repricing and growth did not impact the net interest margin this quarter.
Growing net interest income remains our focus and we believe we should be able to grow net interest income throughout the remainder of the year.
Non-interest income increased $148 million from the fourth quarter with lower mortgage origination revenue offset by stronger equity gains mortgage servicing revenue and brokerage fees.
Compared with a year ago non-interest income declined $750 million primarily reflecting lower mortgage banking results.
Non-interest income excluding mortgage banking was up $534 million from a year ago with growth across many of our businesses including brokerage trust and investment management credit and debit card commercial real estate brokerage and equity investments.
Our equity gains have steadily increased over the past year reflecting good operating performance in our portfolio and the benefit of strong public and private equity markets.
We have been in equity related businesses for over 50 years.
Like the other businesses at Wells Fargo these businesses which are permitted under the Volcker Rule have experienced management teams that have produced strong results for decades.
Our equity gains this quarter reflected roughly the same number of transactions as last quarter but our gains per investment were higher benefiting from positive market conditions.
Our mortgage results in the first quarter reflected the expected decline in origination volume.
We originated $36 billion of mortgages down $14 billion from the fourth quarter.
Our unclosed pipeline increased to $27 billion at the end of the quarter and we expect a normal seasonal benefit of a stronger purchase market in the second quarter to drive origination growth.
Our gain on sale margin was 1.61% in the first quarter within the range of the margins we saw in the second half of 2013.
We also continue to see improvement in our net servicing results where servicing revenue up $229 million from the fourth quarter.
As shown on page 12 expenses were down $137 million from the fourth quarter and down $452 million or 4% from a year ago.
We also improved our efficiency ratio to 57.9%.
Our first quarter expenses included $440 million of seasonally higher employee benefit expenses from higher payroll taxes and 401(k) matching as well as $221 million in annual equity rewards for retirement eligible team members.
While we will not have the seasonally higher personnel expenses in the second quarter there are certain expenses that will increase including salary expense reflecting day count and the impact of our annual merit increases and certain expenses that are typically lower in the first quarter such as outside professional services and advertising expenses are expected to increase in the second quarter.
We also plan to continue to invest in our businesses and revenue-based incentive compensation expense could increase as businesses grow.
However we expect our efficiency ratio to remain within our target range of 55% to 59% in the second quarter.
Turning to our business segments starting on page 13.
Community banking earned $3.8 billion in the first quarter up 31% from a year ago and up 19% from the fourth quarter.
Retail banking continued to grow cross sell achieving a record of 6.17 products per household up from 6.1 products a year ago while mobile banking continued to be our fastest-growing channel with 12.5 million active mobile customers up 23% from a year ago.
Store traffic has remained strong with teller transaction stable from a year ago despite decreases in geographies that experienced severe winter weather during the quarter.
Our credit card business grew balances and fee income compared with a year ago reflecting record new account growth up 6% from the first quarter of 2013.
Purchase volume grew 14% from a year ago and household penetration increased to 38% up from 34% a year ago.
We continue to be the number one auto lender in the country with record originations in the first quarter of $7.8 billion up 15% from a year ago.
Wholesale banking earned $1.7 billion in the first quarter down 15% from a year ago and down 17% from the fourth quarter.
This decline was primarily driven by lower PCI resolutions and investment banking revenue and seasonally higher expenses.
Wholesale banking continued to generate strong loan growth up 7% from a year ago and up 2% from the fourth quarter.
The linked quarter growth was broad-based with corporate banking growing $2 billion from new loan growth and higher utilization rates from our energy and large corporate and institutional customers.
The asset-backed finance portfolio increased $2 billion from the fourth quarter primarily due to higher utilization rates on warehouse lines and the commercial real estate portfolio grew $1.8 billion from the fourth quarter driven by higher utilization rates on construction loans and new loan originations.
Credit quality remained exceptional with $59 million in net recoveries for the quarter.
Wholesale banking has had net recoveries for five consecutive quarters reflecting our conservative risk discipline and improving market conditions.
Cross sell increased to a record 7.2 products per relationship up from 6.8 a year ago.
Treasury management continued to be a key relationship building product with revenue up 4% from a year ago driven by strong sales growth growth in commercial card volume and pricing increases.
Wealth brokerage and retirement earned $475 million in the first quarter up 41% from a year ago and down 3% from the fourth quarter.
We understand the importance of investing and saving for the future which is why we are focused on offering our customers sound guidance and advice.
Our brokerage advisory assets have grown to $388 billion up $63 billion or 19% from a year ago.
Revenues from advisory assets increased 25% from a year ago and recurring revenues are now 80% of WBR revenues up from 74% a year ago.
Wealth brokerage retirement also had strong loan growth with average loans up 14% from a year ago primarily driven by high quality nonconforming mortgage loans.
Turning to page 16.
Credit quality continued to improve with first quarter losses down $138 million from the fourth quarter and net charge-offs declining to 41 basis points of average loans.
Losses in our commercial portfolio were only one basis point of average loans and consumer losses declined to 75 basis points.
Nonperforming assets have declined for seven consecutive quarters and were down $840 million from the fourth quarter.
We had a $500 million reserve release in the quarter and we continue to expect future reserve releases absent the significant deterioration in the economy.
We also continue to focus on strong capital generation and believe the most important measure of our capital strength is the estimated common equity Tier 1 ratio under Basel III using the advanced approach fully phased in our ratio grew to 10.04% up 28 basis points from last quarter.
Although we repurchased 33.5 million common shares in the first quarter the amount of shares outstanding at the end of the quarter was up due to annual employee benefit plan issuances.
As John mentioned at the beginning of our call our 2014 capital plan included an increase in share repurchase activity compared with 2013 activity and we expect our share count to decline in the second quarter and throughout 2014 as a result of our anticipated share repurchases.
Also during the first quarter our Board approved an additional 350 million shares in our repurchase authority.
Our 2014 capital plan also included a proposed dividend of $0.35 per share for the second quarter subject to Board approval an increase of 17% over the $0.30 per share we paid in the first quarter.
At our last Investor Day in 2012 we provided a target payout ratio of 50% to 65%.
We look forward to revisiting this target at our next Investor Day on May 20 in San Francisco.
In summary our consistent EPS growth reflects the advantages of our diversified model.
Our results in the first quarter benefited from good loan growth and good deposit growth improved credit quality and lower expenses.
Our capital levels continued to grow while we returned to $2.6 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
We are optimistic that the continued improvement in the economy and the focus of our team members on meeting the financial needs of our customers will continue to produce strong results.
We will now open up the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question will come from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I had a couple of questions.
One just on the LCR I know you mentioned that the LCR related bills hit the NIM by one basis point in the quarter.
So just wanted to get a sense as to how far along you think you are and how much more you need to do to get to either 100% or whatever cushion you are going to run over 100%? Sure.
Betsy.
That's a really good question.
You saw us in the third and fourth quarter in particular make a number of decisions where we raised the liquidity in a number of ways to try to anticipate where the domestic LCR would ultimately land.
I think the problem that I have got in terms of or a challenge we have in terms of giving a specific answer to the question is we don't know what the final rules look like yet.
But rest assured that we think we have adequate liquidity to operate the company and we don't anticipate whatever the final rules are that it's going to have a material impact on the company.
Okay so don't be surprised if we have a couple of more basis points coming out but it's not going to be much more than that.
Is that a fair way of thinking about it? I wouldn't necessarily equate it to net interest margin.
Clearly the impact of our liquidity build this quarter was much less than in the fourth quarter in particular but again it's going to be a function of what the final rules look like and those are in flux right now.
But again I don't believe it's going to have a material impact on the net income of the operations in the company.
Got it okay and then just secondly on mortgage.
The basic question is how are you thinking about the go-forward from here? You did indicate that weather related was tough in 1Q and we do have a seasonal pick up with purchase activity in 2Q but going in to the year I think you know the industry was thinking that mortgage originations would be somewhere between the 1.1 and 1.3 in terms of the (inaudible) dollars origination and you have some capacity in your mortgage origination business to potentially take some share in that environment.
Do you see that we are going to be a materially lower levels origination for the full-year? Have you adjusted your expenses for that? At this stage I saw you cut back in headcount a little bit in the quarter and maybe if you could speak to what the plans are for that over the next quarter or two? Sure.
I will jump in and then John may want to follow-up.
The first thing is that when you look at our mortgage business it was it was profitable both on an origination and the servicing side which we are very pleased with.
Mortgage is an important business for Wells Fargo.
We have been in it for decades.
We have been through cycles.
Our mortgage team is poised and ready to take advantage of a stronger selling season.
You can see that we entered the quarter with a slightly increased portfolio and pipeline which we are very excited about but again when you look at the fundamental drivers of the mortgage business and that is rate still historically are very low the affordability index is very attractive and consumer debt is coming down as well as employment continues to increase.
So we are optimistic.
I don't know what the size of the market will be but I know that our mortgage team is poised and ready to take advantage of opportunities.
John I don't know if you are going to -- Sure.
Yes.
I would just add a couple of things to that.
We are optimistic.
Housing continues to improve.
I don't think we will see the percentage increases in values this year that we saw last year but we believe it to be positive.
I don't know if this is going to be in the 4% or 5% which is kind of the consensus but as I travel around the country there is a lot of enthusiasm about housing.
And just because of the mortgage you know who knows where the mortgage market will be there is frankly a lot more cash buyers today to be honest about it.
So housing is better and a bigger share of our origination say are purchase money which is actually a healthy place to be and when you think of the sales force the team that we have and all referrals coming out of our store channels and other places this really plays to our wheelhouse.
So we are excited about it and weather did have some impact but we are excited about the selling season.
I guess I am just interested to see how some job cuts in mortgage this first quarter -- Well we are all interested in seeing that.
All right.
That's not an indication that you are too optimistic going into year? No.
We are adjusting.
It's a big business and we are always looking at how to get more efficient of course and making sure that we have the right number of team members but we are ready for whatever comes and if its not as good we will make adjustments.
If its better we will make adjustments that way.
We have been nimble on our feet for decades in that business.
Yes.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
Thanks Betsy.
Your next question will come from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Hi Erika.
Hi Erika.
Thanks much for the clarity on the share count outlook.
I do want to pose a question though on the 350 million share repurchase authority that I have been getting from investors.
How should we think about the catalyst that will drive the pace at which you use up this authority over the next few years? So Erika the way that I would describe it is that and think about it and step back for a second we returned $11.4 billion to our shareholders last year.
We are going to return more than that this year.
In terms of the specifics of how that's going to play out on any given day in a month or within a quarter we don't have a specific plan in place that we are going to execute but we would tell you that we think our shares are on sale every day and we are going to repurchase more shares this year than we did last year and you are going to see that share count go down in the second quarter in the third quarter and in the fourth quarter.
Great.
And the reason we can do that is because the earnings of the company.
So just think about it.
And that's the fundamental driver here.
And so as a follow-up to that you are clearly an earnings machine and you have plenty of excess capital anyway you measure it.
I am wondering John could you update us on how you are thinking about what potential acquisition opportunities there could be in terms helping enhance particularly some of your fee businesses? Sure.
We don't need to do anything.
That's the beauty here but we are always looking at things in an opportunistic way.
The biggest capital required acquisitions or the ones that use the most capital are deposit businesses.
We are of course at a level now where we are ready at the capital overhead.
So the things that we look at are is there a way to enhance wealth brokerage retirement possibly and that would be interesting to us.
Portfolio purchases.
We announced something with Dillard's recently.
So these are the kind of things that we like doing.
We like the card business.
What were doing if there can be an add here or there.
So I would think of it as bolt-on businesses and not think of it in the way of transformational but again if we don't do anything that's also fine.
Great.
Thank you for answering my questions.
Thank you Erika.
Thank you Erika.
Your next question will come from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Couple of quick questions Tim.
One or two nitpicks on net interest income.
How much did the day count hurt NII dollars in the first quarter? And then when you say that you think you can grow net interest income for the rest of the year I assume you mean starting from the 1Q starting point? Is that a good way to read what your comment was there? John that's correct.
So from the first quarter starting point we believe that we are going to grow net interest income throughout the year similar to what we did last year.
The impact of a couple of days was somewhere in the $120 million to $130 million range for the quarter.
Okay and then in terms of investing cash with rates coming down this quarter it doesn't look like you did too much deployment this quarter.
Could you just comment on that? There was some movement in held-to-maturity investments.
It looked like they went up but can you just comment on what happened this quarter on cash deployment? Sure.
The good news is that the first call in cash department is always for loan growth and you saw good loan growth year-over-year and on a sequential quarter basis.
So we were very excited about that.
But you are right.
Rates have been pretty volatile this quarter.
There have been times during the quarter when they were more attractive from our perspective and we did accelerate some of investments.
Most of the purchases that we made in the quarter which were about $13 billion on a gross basis were in the held-to-maturity category and we have specifically purchased some more treasuries.
Every quarter has a little bit different complexion.
You have seen us be more aggressive and you saw us be more aggressive for example in the third and fourth quarters of last year.
We will continue to invest our excess liquidity in a very appropriate way but you are right rates are little bit lower than that we find attractive today.
Okay and then on the volatile sources where are we on that this quarter? Is there a multi-quarter average or normalish that you could compare whether those volatile sources below average this quarter? Is there any way to contextualize that? Well the variable income particularly related to PCI resolutions was I would say above average in the fourth quarter.
This quarter if there is such an average for a volatile item which is hard to work to be honest is a little bit of a challenge but I would say this quarter is a little bit more typical than what we have seen in other items in the variable category like loan fees and resolutions and things like that.
But the fourth quarter was just a little bit higher and this feels a little bit more typical.
Okay and then can you have any comment on where you are in preparations for the OLA? I know the rules aren't finished yet but is there any quantification of available bail-in resources or what level of potential requirement you might be preparing for to help us think how far along you are? Sure.
Again it's similar to the LCR question and that is we don't know what the final rules look like yet.
We are hearing the same things that you probably are that its going to be based on the required level of Tier 1 common equity here in the U.S.
and then some sort of metric that is going to be reflective of risk in the underlying companies.
I mean the good news is that our business model is a little bit less risky than others and that I think should benefit us.
Based upon what we are hearing we don't anticipate any significant changes in the level of our long-term debt but having said that I don't know what the final rules are going to be.
My understanding is that they could be released sometime this quarter could be next quarter.
We will adjust.
I wouldn't anticipate it having a material impact on the operations of the company.
Okay and then last thing for me.
Just on reserve releases can you give us underneath the service what's driving the reserve release in terms of categories? I assume there is not much that you are releasing out of the commercial book anymore.
Is it really to the extent you see further reserve releases is it coming out of mortgage and home equity? I would say John it's predominantly but not completely consumer driven.
You have seen and its just a reflection of the fact that the underlying credit quality of the company continues to improve.
When you think about the quality of the loans that we have originated post-crisis the loan losses credit quality are very very good.
And so our expectation is that while our loan loss reserve release was down this quarter from the prior quarter and from the prior quarter before that we do anticipate future releases but its primarily consumer driven.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
Your next question will come from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead with your question.
Great thanks.
You had alluded to Tim before the idea of bolt-on type acquisitions.
Is there like a maximum size that you would think about in portfolio acquisitions and if its what used to be thought of as a specialty finance business but has perhaps like internet based deposits does that qualify as a bank? Does that restrict you? How do you think about those two questions as it relates to the acquisition possibilities? Moshe I don't think there would be any difference in how we review internet-based deposits versus more traditional deposits.
Deposits are going to be viewed as deposits.
And as John mentioned it's not a business that we can buy.
Clearly we have adequate capital to run our business and excess capital which we primarily want to return to our shareholders.
So we have the capacity to do a relatively large acquisition.
However our focus is going to continue to be on running the business.
As John said we don't really need to do an acquisition to continue to grow.
If you look at some of the sizes of the acquisitions that we have done over the last few years the largest have been portfolio acquisitions.
I think the largest was $4 billion $4.5 billion.
So we can clearly do something of that size and really not miss a beat.
Could we do something a little bit larger than that? Sure we could but as you know we are pretty discriminating in terms of what we want to acquire.
So I wouldn't anticipate us making any big splash in the near future.
Yes let me just make sure we are all on the same page here.
Tim's absolutely right.
Our best opportunity to increase shareholder value is run our existing businesses even better.
We have huge opportunity.
We have this diversified business model this culture.
97% of revenues are here in the U.S.
It's still a very fragmented market.
This is where the opportunity is and we don't need to do anything.
If we do it would be clearly accretive and it would look opportunistic to you and to us but our focus on running the business.
Great and one of the things on the mortgage side that trade press has said a lot about is that basically a lot of the origination growth has come in the non-banks.
Could you talk a little about your strategies just from a market share standpoint given that there has been this growth coming from outside of the traditional banking industry? I think it's a fair point.
We are not overly concerned about though obviously we have got to be cognitive of our competition and the reason for that is we have the best distribution in the entire market.
We have number one market share.
We have a very experienced team.
We have got over 6 200 stores retail locations plus additional mortgage offices and I don't think anybody is better positioned to take advantage of business and we view it as a core business.
We are growing this business.
We want to continue to grow the business.
We are not concerned about that.
So we are going to have competition.
We have non-bank competition in every one of our businesses.
John I don't know if you want to -- Sure half of the U.S.
population and half of the businesses in America reside within two miles one of our stores.
Just think of that.
And while people a lot of times join us online they pick the location they pick the provider that they are familiar with or that's close by them because they still use the store even for the millennials who are very technologically advanced and savvy.
So this is really a very important part of what we are doing.
Okay.
So we don't know focus necessary just on share for share's sake.
We focus on adding value and meeting the needs of our customers.
Great just one last nitpicky question.
If you look at the yield on the loan portfolio commercial and commercial mortgage loans just about $300 billion.
It's a pretty sizable drops in the yield.
Was that part of the restatement? Was that a PCI thing? Or was there something else going on there? Those are mostly related to the decline in the PCI resolution.
Got it okay.
Thank you.
Thank you Moshe.
Your next question will come from the line of Joe Morford with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Joe.
Hi Joe.
I just wondered if perhaps you could give us any more clarity on the relative change in the mortgage related production expenses quarter-to-quarter or sequentially just based on the cutbacks you announced in the back half of last year? Well they were down.
The way that I would think about it Joe is that we have been responding to the decline in the refinance activity and we started to do that in the summer and throughout the fall and through the winter.
We think we are appropriately staffed right now to take advantage of the spring selling season.
And so there will be a little bit of a reduction in terms of the base level of expense because of the changes or the decisions that we made in the first quarter in terms of the number of people when you think about the second quarter.
But we are hopeful candidly that the expenses rise in the mortgage business in the second quarter because that's going to be reflective of the fact that originations are up and there will be more incentive-based compensation.
Okay.
That makes sense.
I guess beyond that the other question would be just beyond mortgage.
Do you see weather having any factor in your loan growth trends this quarter? And I guess maybe another way of looking at is how did the pipeline look at quarter-end relative to three months ago? Or how do you see loan growth progressing through the year? Loan growth in general or in mortgage Joe? No beyond mortgage other categories.
The pipelines look good.
I think we were really pleased.
In the first quarter $1 billion plus growth on a net basis and $7 billion in the first quarter that's a really good first quarter number one just on an absolute number.
The other thing that was exciting from our perspective is how broad-based it was.
It wasn't just in any one specific business.
It was in our commercial and wholesale businesses.
It was in many of our consumer lending businesses and it was in the relationships we have in the wealth brokerage and retirement business.
So it was very broad-based.
So we are optimistic about continued loan growth.
I don't know what the number is going to be but none of our businesses are saying that they don't think they can grow loans for the rest of the year.
Okay.
Thanks for the update.
Thanks.
Your next question will come from the line of Chris Mutascio with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Good morning John and Tim.
Good morning.
How are you guy doing? Good.
Good Chris.
First Tim good luck in your role and if Dave is listening congratulations on his pending retirement.
I am pretty jealous of that.
Tim I wanted to ask you a quick question actually two quick questions.
On the gross servicing on the mortgage side on page39 of the release.
Before hedging and before any fair value adjustments you had a pretty good increase about a 15% increase in the gross servicing income from fourth quarter to first quarter.
What would drive such a big increase despite the fact that the portfolio is roughly the same size? Does the lower expenses on foreclosures impact that gross servicing income? Yes it’s a fair point.
When you look at that page you see that our servicing fees were over $1 billion which was terrific.
Now you can look back and see that phenomena in the second quarter of last year too but it's primarily driven by the point you just made Chris and that is that the quality of the portfolios is better and that's a good thing but it's primarily a lack of late charges and special servicing fees and the like.
Okay and just an unrelated question.
I am just kind of backing in on the reserve.
You have been releasing about 10 well I don't see releasing but the reserve ratio has been going down about 10 basis points plus or minus for the last couple of quarters per quarter.
At that rate if that were to continue you would be at a reserve ratio to loans of 1.30% 1.35% range by end of the year.
Is that something that you are comfortable going to in an environment that we are in right now in terms of the regulatory environment? Chris candidly I didn't appreciate the math that you just described that it's been about 10 basis points a quarter but it has been.
It's been accidental more than anything.
It's really a function of the underlying improvement in the portfolio.
I think that that ratio will continue to improve.
I don’t know where we don't know where it's going to land.
It's going to be a function of the performance of the portfolio but it's definitely going to go down.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Brian Foran with Autonomous.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I was wondering if I could ask about the Basel III capital and over the past couple of quarters it's just grown faster than a simple model of earnings less dividend less buybacks and linking RWA growth with asset growth would imply.
What's been the main drivers of that? And as we look forward do you think the Basel III ratio continues to grow faster than that kind of simplistic view would imply? Or is it going to converge with the normal earnings growth rate? Well Brian it’s a good question.
The whole topic is a little bit complicated primarily because we have had a number of rule changes and rule interpretations by the entire industry number one.
If you recall in the third quarter we did reduce our RWA and we called out some specific items in the third quarter to reduce our risk-weighted assets but I think the trend in terms of being different than just a basic math that you just described it's more likely that it's going to closer to the basic math than you just described than not.
Candidly it will continue to be a function of the underlying risk within the portfolio.
That is the primary driver.
If we can continue to improve credit quality continue to improve market risk continue to improve operational risk those will be the big drivers because that's what the new methodology is based upon.
I appreciate that and on the LCR I know the rules aren't finalized so all this is kind of prospective as opposed to anything you would be doing now but I guess in a very simplistic level it seems to raise the value of retail deposits and lower the value of commercial deposits relative to each other just because the retail deposit runoff assumptions are so much lower.
How big a deal is that? Is that something that just hit the margin maybe it fits with the mix of commercial deposits or something or as currently written is that a bigger deal that actually shifts the focus of industry deposit gathering? I don't think it is going to fundamentally shift how we think about gathering deposits.
And John you may have a different view but I mean anytime we can bring in and broaden a relationship with one of our retail or commercial customers we want to do that.
We want their deposits.
What we don't like is our wholesale deposits in the more traditional defined sense or hot money things like that.
We are looking for long-term relationships but even in the most extreme interpretation of the new rules we still want to grow our commercial deposits.
And again that's because we have such a large deposit base.
We are not overly concerned about the impact in terms of how it affects the LCR but we will know what the rules look like and the impact I am sure later this year.
Brian Tim is absolutely right.
We just love deposits when they are part of a primary relationship and we like them.
At times when some were asking us why you are growing deposits because you can't utilize them.
And we said it's good for long-term shareholder value.
We have a fixed infrastructure and the more customers we can serve with that fixed infrastructure magic happens.
Not always every quarter and sure we are all looking for earning assets but I will take all the deposits we can get that are part of a primary relationship and we cross-sell off that and it's a major driver in customer loyalty.
So it's a big emphasis here for us.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi Ken.
Hi Ken.
I just wanted to follow-up on the deposit side question.
So with you guys sounding pretty confident about the loan pipeline we are also continuing to see a very strong amount of deposit growth from you guys as well as in the industry and I am just wondering are there any undercurrents where you are at least starting to see customers use deposits to fund their businesses? Or do you think we are just into a new regime where it's all just about building the relationship and continuing to see deposits grow well as well as grow better.
I guess the question is what's different if anything as far as how you are seeing loan pipelines grow versus deposit growth continuing? Let me take a shot at that.
You are right.
What you typically see Ken is when loan start to grow the customers tend to use their own cash first.
So there is some of that going on but there's a lot of liquidity in the system.
People are saving more.
Americans save more now than they did in the last decade or two.
And frankly our the health of our retail delivery system when I say the health I mean the online and the stores and the ATMs and the mobile and phone all of those working together as an omni-channel is a very compelling value proposition for businesses and consumers and we are getting a disproportionate share.
And we just love that.
And I will also say this.
Our deposit franchise is probably undervalued today given where absolute rates are and that will change over time.
The other thing that's happened is we probably have a better set of competitors today than we have had.
More rational competitors as in the past.
So it's a combination of a lot of things and we are expecting to continue to see strong growth.
When I look back at five years ago when we merged with Wachovia if you would exclude CDs we had about $650 billion of deposits.
Today if you exclude CDs we are about at $1.50 trillion.
We grew $400 billion dollars in five years.
Yes great.
My second question just IB was soft as it was for the industry on a quarter-to-quarter basis and some of that is seasonal but I just wanted to get your comments and your thoughts about market share opportunities and where you think the IB pipeline looks from here? We continue to be optimistic about the growth in our investment banking business and the reason for that is that most of the business that we are doing in investment banking is with existing Wells Fargo customers who already have a relationship across the board.
So because we haven't penetrated those customers as much as we would like we still think that there is a lot of opportunity there.
The market share is a result of focusing on customers and clients as opposed to trying to get to a specific market share number but you are right.
We understand that that business can be a little bit volatile.
We were down a bit this quarter.
I am hopeful we will be up in the second quarter and the third quarter but as long as we focus on our clients and on the overall relationship particularly those that are already we have got a good chance to continue to grow the business.
Okay and then my last real quick one is just you mentioned the discrete tax benefit in the first quarter.
Can you just to clarify what your expectation is for the tax rate for the rest of the year? Sure.
The expectation is it's likely the tax rate is going to go up.
I would love to be able to tell you that we could have that kind of tax benefit every quarter but I sure wouldn't plan on it.
I think it's more likely that the tax rate for the rest of the quarter which obviously is going to be very dependent on how much money we earn and we are looking forward to growing revenues and growing income over time but I think it's more likely that that tax rate is going to be in the low 30s.
Okay.
Thanks.
So kind of back to historical.
Okay got it.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning Mike.
So Tim I am looking at this and thinking what are you leaving your successor 17 quarters in a row of higher EPS and that's tough to continue.
I know I have been asking this several quarters but if you take out I estimate $0.07 benefit due to the lower tax rate that's a trend that's going to maybe be tough to continue.
I don't what's your thought about that.
Well Mike I would love to take credit for 17 quarters of consecutive earnings growth but there's another 264 999 people around here that really get the credit for it.
It's not about what we do every quarter.
Obviously we are very proud of not only the last 17 quarters but the last five years where we have grown our earnings on a compounded rate of 16%.
So the trend has gone on for a long period of time but every quarter is a little bit different and the second quarter is going to have a different complexion than the first and the fourth and the third of last year but we continue to be optimistic Mike.
Well I would ask it a little bit differently.
Revenues are down 3% year-over-year and it's good.
Now expenses are down 4% and that's helped the efficiency improve from close to 59% down to 58% but that's still on the high end of your target of 55% to 59%.
So did you guys not get as much in savings as you would have liked or is that a future opportunity? We continue our goal of improving the efficiency of the company.
We provided a range of 55% to 59% a couple of years ago and we haven't gotten to the 55% level.
That's clearly a goal that we would like to achieve sometime.
We think the improvement that we have made year-over-year and on a sequential quarter basis to get back to 57.9% has been very good.
But I am hopeful that the primary reason that the dollar expenses could continue to grow in the company is because revenue is going to grow.
That's a good thing and that's why we focus on efficiency.
So there's still a lot of opportunity in terms of becoming more efficient at Wells Fargo.
We are not done yet.
On the expense side can you just elaborate on a few of the key initiatives that might move that efficiency ratio to the lower end of the range? Sure.
There's not really any one key efficiency project Mike.
We are a large company.
We have lots of different businesses and each business is focused on improving efficiency but for example we are focused on the amount of space that we have.
We have done a great job in terms of reducing the amount of square footage we have in the company but the fact of the matter is our people our team members are working differently than they did 10 years ago and five years ago.
They are spending more time with customers and less time in the office.
So we have an opportunity to reduce occupancy cost and reduce our square footage over time.
That would be an example.
Mike something else you could think about is that we still have a number of loss mitigation folks as we are still working with elevated foreclosure and those kinds of issues but on the other hand then we are investing more in operational risk and compliance and those sort of things.
So you are right.
We are at the higher-end of that range but on the other hand as you know that's a ratio.
It's a numerator expenses divided by revenue and we have seen revenue because of interest rates on the margin revenues while we have been able to grow NII.
The margin is not at an all-time high.
So as that improves that will also give you some lift but whatever we do here we will be very careful about what we spend money on but never at the expense of the long-term but we are focused on it.
That's a good point you bring up.
That's why I brought up revenues are down year-over-year and you are still at the high-end of the efficiency range but I guess we will hear more about that at the investor conference? Actually that's actually a good thing.
Think of revenues down and we actually improve the efficiency ratio but there is opportunity and yes you are right we will talk more about that.
And then if you can just elaborate on the management changes John.
I guess you are gearing for the next generation.
How much longer do you plan to stay around and who would be in the pool of potential successors? Well I am glad you asked and I was going to give you that information.
I am 60.
I know you think I look a lot younger but I plan to stay here as the Board is okay with that and they want me through my 65th birthday and we have got great people here.
We have a terrific team of leaders and you know some of them.
I wish you could know more.
For those of you who come to our investor conference next month you will get to meet more of them.
Please come.
That's one of the reasons we love to show you more of them.
But this is a great team and I couldn't be more confident.
In fact I think it's the best team in the industry.
And one thing even though and Dave has been such a great leader even with his leaving the average tenure of my tenure is still around 28 years with this company.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Hi Matt.
I am sorry if I missed it but did you provide the estimated leverage ratio under the new rules that came out last week or this week? Matt we didn't and we are still working through that calculation but just assume that at the parent company level we are comfortably above 7%.
So it's really not an issue for us.
Okay and that leads me to my next question.
If we look at the three banks that are bigger than you I think when you kind of put together all the new requirements out there for capital liquidity it's a bit more onerous for them than it is for you.
I am just wondering like are you actually seeing them pullback in certain areas that you now feel like you can compete in and has that changed since last year when we first got the current proposals for the SLR? Matt I wish that was the case.
The business is very competitive across the board today.
We expected that all of our competitors are going to adjust to whatever the new rules are.
We have candidly been doing that since 2009 but it's a competitive market out there and hopefully for whatever reason we can continue to grow.
Okay and then just lastly a number of lumpy either revenue items or the tax gain anything on the expense side besides a seasonal increase in cost that you would want to point out like litigation costs or anything else lumpy that we should be thinking about? No.
Not beyond the seasonal items in the first quarter but again I want to emphasize that you should expect some increases in other line items within expenses in the second quarter that I called out but nothing in the quarter that was lumpy from an expense standpoint other than the seasonal compensation related items.
Okay on that expense outlook when you piece together the decline in some of the seasonal benefits and increases elsewhere if we just kind of hold revenue flat quarter-to-quarter do expenses stay flat or go up or down or what's the net of all those items? Yes Matt we will know for sure in about 90 days and I just don't know what the exact dollar expenses will be but one of the reasons why I called out some of the categories is reducing some of those categories are going to rise relative to their first quarter numbers.
But again a lot of our expenses are driven off revenue.
If revenues are higher in the second quarter and that's the reason that expenses are up I think we will all be very very happy.
Yes I don't think any of us look to the future and say let's hold revenues flat.
We think we are a growth company.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you Matt.
Thanks Matt.
Your next question will come from the line of Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I wanted to talk a little bit about the macro hedge on the mortgage side.
The servicing profitability has actually tripled since last year going from $300 million to about $900 million per quarter.
That represents more than half of the mortgage banking income.
So I just wanted to talk about and get your feelings on further improvements in that as we move forward and just have few precise questions about maybe some items that could help there as well.
Well Marty you are absolutely correct.
Our servicing income is up significantly over the past few years or the past few quarters as you can see.
The drivers are primarily the fact that the underlying quality of the portfolio continues to improve.
So there is less adjustments that we need to take to the value for things like foreclosure cost to make any changes related to the consent order or servicing settlement and so on and so forth.
In terms of the hedge I wouldn't think about it as kind of a macro hedge.
It's a very complicated set of hedging activities that we need to do.
We have got a large group of people that does it.
They are very experienced but as we have talked about in the past we are not trying to make any sort of macro bets from an interest rate standpoint or in terms of a market standpoint.
We are just trying to generate a predictable set of earnings from an underlying business that we like a lot.
It was very beneficial when we went through the refinancing boom and we believe can continue to provide good earnings.
You are absolutely correct that it's a larger portion of earnings than maybe the origination side but my guess is that's going to change from quarter-to-quarter depending upon origination volume.
When I meant macro-hedge I meant more originations versus servicing not the hedging and the servicing portfolio.
Well I am sorry.
Yes you are right.
But again I think sometimes folks think that somehow the servicing business is a natural hedge to origination volume and given what we have seen over the last year or so given the size of the refinance opportunity we can see that really wasn't the case.
To some point but not completely? Correct.
When you look at the prepayment speeds not really accelerating with refinance not really coming off the floor you still wrote down the MSRs about $400 million this quarter.
I know rates came back in but really cash flow is what matter more than just a rate.
So rates are proxy.
But if don't get a significant increase in prepayment fees there really shouldn't be further write-downs in the portfolio at this point.
So I was just curious what you thought or what was driving that write down this quarter? Well you are absolutely correct that rates are a driver.
We have seen a lot of volatility in rates for certain but again rates are the primary driver also just underlying prepayment fees that we are seeing for other reasons in terms of how quickly folks are selling their homes and moving elsewhere but our best guess is that we could continue to see some benefit from the servicing portfolio.
And then lastly the provision for unfunded commitments jumped up this quarter about $250 million.
Is that something we should see at the same level? Or is that something you made a little adjustment on this quarter that might fall back as you move forward? Well it's a reflection of the fact that our loan commitments grew which is a good thing but also we just adjusted some of our estimates and I wouldn't anticipate that that would repeat itself on a quarterly basis.
All right.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
Please go ahead.
LLC</strong> Good morning guys.
How are you? Hi Nancy.
LLC</strong> A question for you that I think John McDonald asked the question about the release in loan loss reserves and I would sort of ask for an additional detail on that.
How much of this release was enabled by the reserves you built after the Wachovia deal? In other words how much or how many of these reserves are related to better credit quality at Wachovia than you had anticipated? You know what I don't have the percentage off the top of my head Nancy.
I think what you saw is that we continued to build reserves throughout 2009 and I am trying to remember what quarter we stopped building reserves.
I thought it was through most of 2009 but I would say it's a reflection of clearly improved credit quality in the underlying portfolio that we inherited from Wachovia as well as the Wells portfolio but I don't know what the percentage is just related to that because today it's really all mixed.
We don't really think about it that way.
But Nancy you are right to this extent.
The Wachovia portfolio turned out to be better than we had thought and if you just look at how much we have moved from on the PCI side into the accretable from the non-accretable and we especially did a lot better on the Pick-a-Pay.
We just had a terrific team that attacked that early on but credit turned out I think partly because of things that we did.
It turned out to be quite a lot better.
But Nancy again just to reinforce John's last comment and I should have mentioned it most of the improvement that we saw in the Wachovia portfolio was really in what you see in PCI and the detail we provide there as opposed to in the loan loss reserve.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Secondly this is sort of a tangential credit quality question and has to do with Dave Hoyt's decision to retire.
Number one Tim congratulations but with the admonition that timing is everything in life.
Secondly Dave Hoyt was the best in the industry at two things number one not answering a question.
He was expert at that.
But number two just foreseeing credit quality trends way in advance and I have had the question from others and I am a little bit concerned that Dave is sort of looking out into the future here and seeing that commercial credit quality is about as good as it's going to get.
Could you just comment on that? Well Nancy I worked for Dave for about 20 years and he absolutely was a terrific judge of credit quality.
I think if Dave was on the phone he would also say that there were hundreds if not thousands of people that there were behind him in wholesale banking that helped in that.
So there's no question that Dave's retirement is something that we weren't looking forward to.
But we have a great team here and I would not read into his retirement as him saying from here on in credit quality is going to significantly deteriorate at Wells Fargo.
In fact I think it's more likely that it's going to continue to improve.
Now the likelihood in the commercial portfolio that we are going to continue to have quarters of recovery as opposed to loan losses that's not going to happen forever.
But the fact of the matter is that culture really matters and the culture that we have in the wholesale banking group in terms of making good credit decisions is going to continue on because that's what Dave was very good at instilling in thousands of people within the wholesale banking group.
And I can tell you my perspective and while I have not had that much time with Dave I have only had 16 years with him.
He is retiring.
He has a fabulous family including grandchildren.
He has a lot of other interests and he just felt it was right for him and while we are sad to see him go we celebrate with him his next stage and as Tim mentioned his legacy are the thousands of people that he has led that are in leadership roles right now that continue to propel this business forward.
LLC</strong> Well please let him know that I am sure I am not the only analyst who is going to miss sparring with him.
One other thing.
On private equity just the gains you had you guys has long had an expertise in technology private equity investments and is that still or is that sort of the primary source of a lot of the gains this quarter? It was a source of some of the gains Nancy but it was really across the board.
We had as I mentioned about the same resolutions I would say about half were in technology-related the other half weren't.
And we are very pleased with the gains that we had this quarter but as you can appreciate that you can't count on those at the same level every quarter.
I wish we could but this is a very buoyant time in the equity markets both public and private notwithstanding some of the market volatility over the last couple of days and we have got good management teams.
As you said we have been in the business for a long time.
So we continue to be optimistic about the long-term success of those businesses but quarter-to-quarter it's going to be what's it's going to be.
LLC</strong> All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Nancy.
Your next question will come from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi Paul.
Hi.
This is actually Jessica Ribner for Paul.
How are you? Well we have upgraded.
How are you Jessica? Good.
You have upgraded.
It's true.
Then who is going to read the transcripts.
You guys have actually shrunk your market share almost in half to about 16% over the last couple quarters or the last few quarters I should say but you are also talking about growing it.
Where do you see that going? Yes sure.
It's a good question.
Again if you step back and think about the time at which in the cycle that our market share was so high arguably two times maybe a little bit less than that it was because the primary source of mortgage origination volume depending upon the quarter could have been two-thirds of volume or three quarters of volume or even more in some quarters was refinance volume.
So that's reflective of the fact that we are the largest servicer.
We had the highest-quality servicing portfolio and generally those customers gave us the first call and we were able to meet their needs by refinancing that mortgage.
We had indicated that we thought that as the refinancing volume declined and as the mix changed to more of a purchase money market our market share would go down.
So that was absolutely anticipated but we don't think of the business as a market share business.
We think about it as how do we solve the needs of our customers.
Do we have the right number of people in the right places? As John mentioned we got the best distribution system in the market and so we are optimistic about being able to grow.
Whether that means we will grow market share? I don't know but we are optimistic about growth in the business.
Jessica the other thing you should think about is that the 16% or whatever that number is 16% or 17% part of it is in aggregation business where we do correspondent banking business and which we love that business but it's a lower margin business and part of it is a retail business where we actually originate the loan through one of our home mortgage consultants.
Some of the correspondent business is going directly to Fannie and Freddie.
So that business is actually changing a bit.
So when you look even at the time when we had maybe double that share you have to look at both sides of that and while I focus on all of it it's also important to make that distinguishment.
Okay well.
Thank you.
And then kind of a related question.
You guys said earlier on the call that you added about $7.2 billion it sounds like jumbo mortgages on the balance sheet.
Is that correct? No.
Our loan growth was primarily on a gross basis for the quarter was about $7 billion point-to-point.
The growth in non-conforming mortgages on a gross basis which would be the jumbo category was about $5.8 billion.
Okay and where do you see that trend going? Hopefully it will continue to go up.
I think that one of the areas that we indicated a couple of years ago at our Investor Day was a real effort on the part of our team in the wealth area as well as in our retail banking area to coordinate more on those opportunities and they have done just a terrific job.
So we are hopeful with the improvement in the weather and the spring selling season that we will continue to see that grow over time.
The one's we put on portfolio are very small part of the originations.
It's less than 5% or so.
So there's opportunity there.
Okay great.
Well thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Keith Murray with ISI.
Please go ahead.
Hi Keith.
It's actually Keith Murray for Keith Murray.
So it’s a bit of a downgrade for your guys.
Sorry.
We still think that’s an upgrade.
Thank you very much.
Just on all the new rules you have got Basel III you have got SLR you have got LCR.
When you think about loan pricing and pricing for commitments has that all been factored in yet and are you still kind of working through the changes that will have to be made? Really good question.
I don't believe that the industry set us aside for a minute the industry has necessarily adjusted yet because their capital rules have just been finalized.
The leverage rules for example are relatively new and we haven't seen the final liquidity rules.
I am sure there will be some adjustments just like there's been adjustments to all the other new rules and regulations that we have post-crisis.
So I think it's more in the future than in the past.
Okay and then are you seeing much impact from non-bank lenders out there? Every private equity firm non-banks are seeing a lot of them try to do more loans to the middle market firms.
So are you seeing much impact at all? Well there's no question that post-crisis given a lot of the regulatory changes created opportunities for unregulated or differently regulated institutions and that's been the case for as long as I have been in the lending business and been with the bank.
I think the important point to make is that generally though those firms frequently are very good are monoline firms and that is they have one product they can provide credit.
How we differentiate ourselves is that we have relationships and that we can provide tens of products or more and broaden that relationship.
So we don't find ourselves losing a lot of business to non-banks.
I also think that generally the competitive environment is a little bit more rational than it would be today.
But again we have a real advantage when we compete against a monoline product provider versus our relationship-focused and cross-sell orientation.
Thanks and then just finally on fee based businesses that you have if you look out for the rest of this year and through 2015 which of those businesses do you think has the most potential upside for revenue growth.
We really all of our businesses.
In fact we think there's growth opportunity but a couple of them jump out wealth brokerage retirement.
You saw that we are at 41% and I don't think we can do 41% every quarter or every year but that's a huge growth opportunity for us.
The card business.
We think we have got some exciting things happening there but that doesn't diminish anything else.
We have opportunities with what we are doing international because we have more of our U.S.
customers doing business there.
We have opportunity in our capital markets businesses and even mortgage where you think where people would say well geez you have the number one share.
There is huge opportunity there.
Half of our customers who call us at our bank who have a mortgage don't do it with us.
So there is all kinds of opportunity here.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Eric Wasserstrom with Suntrust Robinson Humphrey.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
Hello.
Just a couple of follow-up questions.
One is I know that your card fees declined by about the same amount as they did in the first quarter of last year but in terms of your actual charge volumes was there any decline that was more than what is typically seasonal in this first quarter? No.
Not at all.
No.
So in other words no disruption from weather or any other exogenous temporary employment or any other exogenous factor? No.
Not at all.
Okay and just turning to the gain on sale trend for a moment.
I recognize that the changes weren't big but most of the proxies that we use suggested flat and so I am just wondering if there was anything in mix or otherwise that would have explained the decline? No.
There wasn't necessarily a big change in mix.
That's one of the reasons why we have provided a range beginning in the third quarter of last year.
I think there was a concern in the market that as volume went down that gain on sale margins would go down significantly.
We think that the range that we have provided plus or minus 1.5% is a reasonable range to operate in but comparing any quarter 5 to 10 to even 15 basis point level of volatility is not uncommon at all.
Great and then lastly just getting back to Brian's question about the accretion of Basel III capital versus the growth in earnings recognizing that there should be convergence it also seems that the quality of the portfolio that you have originated over the past few years has lower embedded risk.
So wouldn't that suggest that as the risk component becomes an increasingly important determinant of your Tier 1 under the Basel III wouldn't that suggest that Basel III capital continues to grow ahead of what the earnings math would otherwise suggest? It could but again because it's a more complicated calculation right now because you have got the impact of market risk you have got the impact of operational risk and candidly the operational risk calculations for the regulators as well as the entire industry continues to be a work in progress and influx.
I wouldn't want to jump to a conclusion that just underlying credit quality only would be the sole driver of improvement in RWA.
Great and then just last one for me and I hate to come back to this topic because it's already been addressed many times reserve releases.
The nonperforming assets continue to come down but many of the forward-looking credit quality indicators are starting to flatten in terms of their sequential improvement.
So all was equal and of course your portfolio of loans continues to grow so all was equal wouldn't that indicate that the pace of reserve release should start to decline also? Well it could and to your point that's what you have seen over the last three quarters.
We went from a $900 million release in the third quarter to $600 million last quarter to $500 million this quarter.
I don't know what the release is going to be in the second quarter.
We do believe we are going to have a release but it's a fair point.
I mean this is not going to go on forever but the fact of the matter is the portfolio continues to improve.
Okay all right.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our final question will come from the line of Derek De Vries with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Derek? Derek your line maybe on mute.
If you are on a speaker phone please pick up your handset.
And there is no response from that line.
All right.
Why don't we then conclude.
Let me make a couple of comments.
First of all I would like to thank Tim Sloan for the great work he's done as our CFO.
As you all know he's going to take over the Wholesale Bank but Tim thank you for the great leadership and the work you have done here.
You have just been terrific.
For those of you who don't know John Shrewsbury many of you do you will get to see him if not before but you will surely see him when you come to our investor conference remember that was May 20 in San Francisco.
We look forward to seeing you.
It's always an exciting time for us to talk about our business and share with you the enthusiasm and some of the great people that we have.
So thank you very much for your interest in Wells Fargo and we will talk to you next quarter and the investor conference earlier than that.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all participating and you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Rowe you may begin your conference.
Thank you Regina and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today where our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf and our CFO John Shrewsberry will discuss second quarter results and answer your questions.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that our second quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at wellsfargo.com.
I would also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.
Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can also be found in our SEC filings in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website.
I will now turn our call over to our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf.
Thank you Jim and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
The second quarter was another strong quarter for Wells Fargo.
We earned $5.7 billion in the quarter by our continued focused on creating long-term shareholder value to meeting our customers' financial needs including growing loans and deposits and deepening our relationships with our customers.
Let me highlight our growth during the second quarter compared with a year ago.
We generated earnings of $5.7 billion up 4% from a year ago and earnings per share up $1.01 per share up 3% from a year ago.
We had strong and broad based loan growth and our core loan portfolio is up $51.3 billion or 7%.
Our credit performance continued to improve with total net charge-offs down $435 million or 38% from a year ago and our net charge-off ratio was only 35 basis points annualized on average loans.
Our outstanding deposit franchise continues to generate strong growth.
With total deposit up $97 billion or 9%.
We've grown deposits by an average of $265 million everyday over the past year.
We deepened relationships across our company.
Retail banking cross-sell was 6.17 products per household.
Wholesale banking cross-sell was 7.2 products and wealth brokerage and retirement cross-sell was 10.44 products.
We reduced expenses from a year ago while we continue to invest in our businesses including strengthening our risk management infrastructure.
We also follow through our commitment to maintain strong capital ratios while returning more capital to shareholders.
In the second quarter we increased our common stock dividend by 17% and continued to reduce our share count.
We returned our net $3.6 billion to shareholders in the second quarter up significantly from $1.6 billion a year ago.
I am also proud that during the second quarter Wells Fargo was ranked the most respected bank in the world and the 11th most respected company overall according to Barron's Magazine 2014 ranking of the world's most respected companies.
This recognition is a result of our dedicated team members remaining focused on our consistent vision and their commitment to meeting our customers' financial needs.
While the economic recovery remains uneven there are many indicators that economic growth is accelerating and we remain optimistic about the opportunities the recovery provide to Wells Fargo and for our customers.
The strong improvement employment in June demonstrated the strength in a labor market with unemployment at lowest level since September 2008.
The housing market rebound remained on-track with home prices up 8% from a year ago and up 25% from the low in June 2011.
Despite these increases home affordability continued to remain attractive due to historically low mortgage rates and rising household incomes.
In June the conference board's measure of consumer confidence reached a six year high and vehicle sales reached an eight year high.
The economy is also benefiting from strong energy production with domestic crude oil production running at the highest level in 26 years and our reliance on foreign energy sources has been falling for nearly a decade.
I am confident that the economic recovery and our diversified business model will continue to provide opportunities for future growth as we remain focused on helping our customers meet their financial needs.
Now John Shrewsberry our CFO will provide more details on our second quarter results.
John? Thanks John.
And good morning everyone.
My comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly supplement starting on Page 2.
John and I will then answer your questions.
Wells Fargo had a very strong quarter as demonstrated by fundamental drivers of long-term growth.
We earned $5.7 billion in the second quarter; down a $167 million from the first quarter but keep in mind our results last quarter included a $423 million discrete tax benefit and $0.08 per share impact.
Our pre-tax income grew $303 million from the first quarter.
Revenue grew from first quarter including both net interest income and noninterest income.
Core loans grew 8% annualized and average deposits grew 9% annualized.
We grew pre-tax pre-provision profit for the third consecutive quarter and credit quality continued to improve.
Capital remains strong and we returned more capital to shareholders.
I will highlight the drivers of this growth throughout the call today.
As John highlighted and as you can see on Page 3 we had strong year-over-year growth in loans and deposits.
Our growth in EPS and net income reflected this benefit along with the reduction in expenses and an improvement in credit quality.
Our results were driven by momentum across many of our businesses.
One way to demonstrate this business momentum is through noninterest income growth.
Mortgage fees while up from first quarter were down $1.1 billion from a year ago due to lower refinancing volume.
Excluding mortgage fees fee income was up 9% from a year ago reflecting broad based growth in retail brokerage deposit service charges card fees commercial real estate brokerage commissions trust and investment management merchant processing and market sensitive revenue.
That's the benefit of our diversification.
We have over 90 businesses focused on meeting our customers' financial needs.
We also grew net interest income from a year ago.
And as you know growing net interest income measured in dollars has been our focus as deposits and other sources of liquidity have growth more rapidly than loan demand or other attractive investment opportunities.
Page 4 highlights our revenue diversification.
While our balance between net interest income and noninterest income has been consistent the drivers of noninterest income can vary each quarter.
For example equity investments were 9% of our fee income in the first quarter but declined to 4% in the second quarter.
Other businesses such as deposits investment banking and mortgage contributed more to fee income this quarter resulting in overall fee income growth demonstrating the benefit of diversified business model.
Let me highlight some of the key drivers of our second quarter results from a balance sheet and income statement perspective starting on Page 5.
Our balance sheet is never been stronger capital liquidity asset quality funding mix are all exceedingly strong.
We increased average earnings assets by 3% from the first quarter by growing loans increasing short-term investment in trading assets and purchasing securities.
In addition our credit quality continues to improve.
Investment securities increased $8.7 billion from first quarter reflecting $17 billion of purchases primarily U.S.
Treasuries and federal agency debt partially offset by run off.
We also improved our liquidity position in response to continued heightened regulatory expectations.
We issued $7.8 billion of liquidity related long-term debt and increased liquidity related short-term funding by $5.9 billion.
Total short-term investments grew to $238.7 billion which helps us meet our regulatory obligations and provides dry powder to grow loan and invest in securities.
Turning to the income statement on Page 6 revenue grew $441 million with growth in both net interest income and noninterest income.
The $246 million growth in noninterest expense was primarily due to higher revenue based incentive compensation and deferred compensation expense and an increase in operating losses primarily from litigation accruals related to various legal matters.
I'll explain the drivers of our expenses in more detail later on the call.
Income tax expense increased from the first quarter which included $423 million discrete tax benefit.
As shown on Page 7 we continue to have strong broad based loan growth in the second quarter.
Our 12th consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth even with the continued reduction in our liquidating portfolio of $56.5 billion over the same time period.
Our core portfolio which excludes our liquidating portfolio grew by $51.3 billion or 7% from a year ago and was up $15.2 billion or 8% annualized from the first quarter.
Period end loans were up $29 billion or 4% from a year ago and up $2.5 billion from the first quarter.
This growth was impacted by the transfer of $9.7 billion of government guaranteed student loans to held for sale which removes them from total loans.
These student loans have been included within our liquidating portfolio since we stopped originating them in 2010.
We transferred this portfolio to held for sale at the end of the second quarter reflecting our intent to sell our entire government guaranteed portfolio.
However we remained committed to the private student lending business.
Excluding this transfer total loans would have increased to $12.2 billion or 6% annualized linked quarter.
On Page 8 we highlight how broad -based our loan growth continues to be at Wells Fargo.
C&amp;I loans were up $19.4 billion or 10% from a year ago as we successfully grew loans across our commercial businesses including asset backed corporate government commercial and asset based.
Real-estate 1 to 4 family first mortgage loans grew $7.3 billion or 3% with growth in high quality nonconforming mortgage primarily jumbo loans.
Foreign loans grew $6.2 billion or 15% from a year ago reflecting growth in trade finance and the U.K.
Commercial Real Estate acquisition we completed in the third quarter of last year.
Auto loans were $5.5 billion or 11% reflecting strong origination as we remained the number one auto lender in the country while maintaining our focus on pricing for risk.
Commercial real estate loans were $4.4 billion or 4% reflecting new origination and an acquisition in the third quarter of last year.
Credit card balances were $2.4 billion or 10% with new accounts up 4%.
Our growth rate has been above the industry average reflecting new account growth product enhancement and increased usage among our existing customers.
Deposit growth also remained strong in the second quarter with average deposits growing $91.7 billion or 9% from a year ago and up $24.2 billion from the first quarter up 9% annualized.
Average deposits totaled $1.1 Trillion and we benefited from strong growth in both commercial and consumer balances.
Our average deposit cost declined to 10 basis points in the second quarter down 1 basis point from the first quarter and down 4 basis points from a year ago.
Our ability to generate strong deposit growth while reducing deposit cost demonstrated the fundamental strength of our outstanding deposit franchise.
We have been able to grow deposits by offering best in class products and excellent customer experience and robust multi channel option.
Our primary consumer checking customers were up 4.6% from a year ago.
Our ability to grow primary customers is important to our results because these customers have more interaction with us have higher cross-sell and are more than twice as profitable as non primary customers.
As shown on Page 10 tax equivalent net interest income increased $184 million from first quarter benefiting from an additional day in the quarter organic loan growth in higher mortgages held for sale in trading assets.
Our NIM declined from the first quarter to 3.15% driven by customer deposit growth which essentially neutral to net interest income but reduced the margin by approximately five basis points.
Liquidity related actions we took in the second quarter to meet increase regulatory liquidity expectations reduced the margin by one basis point however higher income from variable sources including higher PCI resolutions and periodic dividends offset this decline.
Balance sheet repricing in growth once again did not impact the NIM this quarter as the majority of the repricing from the higher rate environment to the current rate environment is behind us.
Noninterest income increased $265 million from the first quarter with growth across our diversified businesses including mortgage banking investment banking deposit service charges card fees retail brokerage commercial real estate brokerage and insurance offsetting a $460 million decline in market sensitive revenue.
Market sensitive revenue declined 34% from first quarter while all other noninterest income grew 8%.
Trust and investment fees increased $197 million or 6% from first quarter on higher investment banking and retail brokerage asset based fees.
Mortgage banking grew $213 million from first quarter up 14% with growth in both originations and servicing.
The second quarter benefited from a seasonally stronger purchase market with 74% of our originations coming from home purchases up from 66% last quarter.
Total originations increased to $47 billion up 31% are unclosed pipeline increased to $30 billion at the end of the quarter up 11%.
We also continue to see improvement in our net servicing results for servicing revenue up $97 million from the first quarter reflecting higher MSR hedge performance and an increase in net servicing fees reflecting the benefit of lower servicing and foreclosure costs.
As shown on Page 12 expenses were up $246 million from the first quarter while our efficiency ratio remained at 57.9% reflecting our revenue growth.
The key drivers of our expenses included personnel expenses declined $106 million from the first quarter which included seasonally elevated incentive compensation and benefit cost salary increased as expected due to annual merit increases and one extra day in the quarter.
Personnel expense included $130 million of higher revenue based incentive compensation in the second quarter which is a type of expense increase we like to see because we are growing the top line.
Additionally personnel expenses were impacted by $84 million in higher deferred compensation expense which offset in trading revenue.
Outside professional services and advertising expense increased from the first quarter levels which tend to be seasonally lower.
And operating losses increased $205 million from the first quarter largely due to litigation accruals for various legal matters.
We remained focused on managing expenses and we expect our efficiency ratio will remain within our target range of 55% to 59% for the third quarter.
Turning to our business segment starting on Page 13 community banking earned $3.4 billion in the second quarter up 6% from a year ago and down 11% from first quarter primarily from higher taxes.
Retail banking cross-sell was 6.17 products per household up from 6.14 a year ago.
Our debit and credit card businesses continued to grow benefiting from account growth and higher usage.
Debit card purchase volume was up 8% from a year ago driven primarily -- driven by primarily checking customer growth.
Credit card purchase volume was 16% from a year ago with new account growth and more active accounts.
Active accounts were up 14% as the Wells Fargo credit card is becoming more top- of-wallet for our customers.
Credit card household penetration increased to 39% up from 35% a year ago.
We remained committed to serving our small business customers at an increased primary business checking account customers 5.2% from a year ago.
During the second quarter we launched Wells Fargo Works for Small Business an initiative that provides guidance and services to small business owners.
This new initiative is resulted in strong engagement with small businesses across the country including millions of views of our online video series and increased traffic to wellsfargoworks.com.
Wholesale banking earned $2 billion in the second quarter down 3% from a year ago and up 12% from the first quarter.
Loan growth remained strong and broad based across businesses up 8% from a year ago and up 2% from first quarter.
Capital finance increased $2 billion from first quarter driven by higher utilization rates new customer growth and growth in factoring assets.
Commercial banking grew $1.8 billion from the first quarter with widespread growth across geographies and industries.
Commercial real estate grew $1.4 billion driven by new loan originations including customer M&amp;A activity.
In addition corporate banking government and institutional banking asset backed financed and equipment financed portfolios all grew from the first quarter.
Revenue increased 7% from the first quarter reflecting diversified growth across a number of wholesale banking businesses.
Investment banking revenue growth was broad based across product categories.
Eastdil Secured our commercial real estate brokerage business increased revenue strong performance in public and private markets.
Asset management fees grew -- from increased market valuation and in flows.
Total assets under management increased $35 billion from a year ago.
Long-term assets including equity and fixed income strategies were up 12% while money market funds have declined by 4% from a year ago.
The shift out of money market funds moderating growth in total asset under management but revenue benefited from the shift to higher fee generating long-term assets.
Wholesale banking revenue also benefited from the sale of 40 insurance offices in the quarter.
Wealth brokerage and retirement earned $544 million in the second quarter up 25% from a year ago and up 15% from the first quarter.
The strong year-over-year results reflected 9% revenue growth driven by recurring revenue.
Net interest income was 11% from a year ago and asset based fees were up 14% benefiting from market performance and continued client demand for plan based advisory solutions.
Our brokerage advisory assets have grown to $409 billion up $78 billion or 24% from a year ago.
Loan growth remained strong with average loans of 12% from a year ago driven by growth in high quality nonconforming mortgages in security based lending.
We also benefited from the partnership involving WBR and community banking to better meet our customers' saving retirement planning and investment needs and we increased the number of private bankers in our banking stores by 22% from a year ago.
Turning to Page 16 credit quality continue to improve with second quarter credit losses down $108 million from first quarter and the net charge-off ratio decline into 35 basis points of average loans.
Losses in our commercial portfolio were only 3 basis points of average loans and consumer losses continue to decline to 62 basis points.
Nonperforming assets have declined for seven consecutive quarters and were down $686 million from first quarter although the pace of improvement is slowed.
We had a $500 million reserve release is same as in first quarter.
We continue to expect future reserve releases absent a significant deterioration in the economy but expect a lower level of future releases as the rate of credit improvement slows and the loan portfolio continues to grow.
Our estimated common equity Tier 1 ratio under Basel III using the advanced approach fully phased-in increased to 10.09% in the second quarter.
Our share count declined in the quarter reflecting the repurchase of 39.4 million common shares and we executed a $1 billion forward repurchase contract which expected to settle in the third quarter for approximately 19.4 million shares.
We expect our share count to continue to decline throughout 2014 as a result of anticipated net share repurchases.
We also increased our dividend to $0.35 per share in the second quarter a 17% increase.
Our net payout ratio in the second quarter was 66% in line with our recent guidance of 55% to 75%.
In summary our results in the second quarter demonstrated the momentum across our fundamental business drivers including growing loans and deposits increasing both net interest income and noninterest income while credit improved and capital remained strong.
While we've demonstrated our ability to grow during the variety of economic and interest rate environments we are well positioned to benefit from an improving economy and higher rates.
Our diversified business model provides us with many opportunities to better meet our customers' financial needs as economic growth become robust.
Our strong balance sheet with our large balance of short-term investments primarily driven by our strong deposit growth provides us the ability to further grow loans and invest in securities.
We are optimistic that our outstanding franchise and our focus on serving the real economy will continue to produce strong results.
We will now open up the call for questions.
Jim?   (Operator Instructions).
Our first question will come from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi good morning.
John was wondering on the legal side of things.
Can you give us a sense of what type of legal issues you are building reserves for? And also can you comment whether you are having discussion with the DOJ and mortgage task force made up of state AGs that other banks are having discussion with? The best disclosure for our legal activity is found in our Q and K where there is great detail on item that are probable and estimable and frankly even more matters we can't comment on anything specifically.
The items that I referred in the expense section or variety of matters that essentially added up to the number that you saw.
On the loan growth can you comment what you are seeing in terms of utilization of lines by customers is that getting better and what's driving what appears to be slight kind of acceleration in the loan growth you saw this quarter.
Well we called out one area where there has been an increase in utilization in the comments that was in capital finance but overall in wholesale banking utilization is relatively flat it's ticked up just a little bit.
So this is -- this loan growth isn't just driven by that.
John the nice thing about the loan growth is broad based.
If you look at it's consumer it's private banking area commercial and cross so it's really broad based it is one of the -- I think the strengths in what we have been doing the last number of quarters especially this quarter.
Okay.
And then last thing for me John on the net interest income side of things.
Do you know at this point is the liquidity building you have been doing is that done or you are not sure yet on that front? We think that where we stand today is probably about where you need to be and if the final rule making around LCR comes in a little bit differently then the actions that we have to take shouldn't materially change things so we are about where you need to be.
Okay.
And seems that the churn has stopped with your reinvestment rates kind of looking like they match your roll-off rates.
So I guess from -- with that perspective in mind are you looking to grow an interest income dollar kind of in line with loan growth from here or there are other factors we should think about? Well you should be -- should look at the balance sheet at every period and assess what types of inflows we have of additional liquidity and what we have done with it.
Some of will be loan growth there will be more security growth; there will be some that sits in cash while we wait to make decision about securities investments.
So the facts and circumstances will lead it on that path but back to your question about roll-off and roll-on it appears that the NIM hasn't been diminished by a change in pricing scheme with respect to loans or securities for that better because of what you described.
Okay.
And you are still looking to grow net interest income from the current levels? Do you still think you can do that? Absolutely Your next question will come from the line of Joe Morford with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks good morning everyone.
Hi there.
I guess first was just on-- upon -- question on the loan growth.
I guess specifically in C&amp;I end of period loan were up little over $9 billion or almost 5% sequentially the strongest increase to the past year.
I was just curious little bit more what's driving that? Are you are seeing signs of increase confidence among borrowers and may be more of a willingness to make investment? Joe this is John Stumpf.
We are seeing that.
As I am always talking with customers and our talking with our team there is as I mentioned in my opening comments there is more optimism.
I think consumer confidence is at six year high.
It is not breakout but it's -- we are having more discussion with more customers about buying homes buying autos investing in infrastructure if you are a business buying something so we are real economy company.
We are in the real economy and there are certain sectors of economy that are doing very well.
We are big energy lender both on renewal side and the hydrocarbon side plus the real estate has been very good for us little market such it's very broad based.
Okay that's great thanks.
I guess the other question was just if you could talk a little bit more about what's your experience has been in mortgage with the spring selling season.
And how do you feel about both volumes and staffing levels for the rest of the year there? Sure.
Well we've been pretty clear on the record that we found the spring selling season to be little less than we have originally imagined although it is nice growth from the first quarter just based on the time of year.
And our view on the whole year in terms of mortgage origination is not inconsistent with the MBA and other published metrics.
So you can see our pipeline going into the third quarter higher than it was going into the second.
So that's probably means good things for the third quarter relative to the second quarter.
The margins are holding in there.
But we are not seeing -- we are not seeing a breakout returns to pre crisis levels of the enthusiasm around home ownership and so the purchase market is softer than we thought that it would be.
And is that like to drive any other right sizing on the staffing side or do you feel pretty good about where you stand there? I think -- we have been very good at being flexible about that work force.
And adding as we needed to as production volumes increased and then making changes as production volume decrease.
So I think we are keeping that in sync with the production opportunity.
Your next question will come from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead with your question.
Merrill Lynch</strong> Good morning.
Hey my first question is a follow up to John's line of questioning.
The first is you feel like you in are where you need to be in terms of liquidity.
And the majority of the repricing from the high interest environment as you said John to the current interest rate environment is behind you.
Can we assume that Wells Fargo's net interest margin is close to the bottom with the wild card being deposit growth being stronger continuing to be stronger? I would say this way Erika.
Again we don't manage to the margin; deposit growth has an impact on the margin.
What we say -- what we are saying is we are focused on growing net interest income and we believe we can do that.
And loan demands been good and that is good for growing net interest income.
Secondly we have millions of dollars available in that cash flow if you will to make investments at the right time so we are optimistic about growing net interest income over the long term.
The margin will be impacted by -- cost growth has a big influence on that.
And again most at neutral to income if not neutral to the margin.
Merrill Lynch</strong> And the second follow up question just as we think about the next quarter's earnings power I know that it is in the appendix that you did reclassify about $2 billion from nonaccretable difference to accretable yield and you are expecting the yield on the Pick-a-Pay portfolio or the accretable percentage to be 6.15% from 4.98% this quarter is that going to have a positive impact on net interest margin as sequential basis as we take into account all the different components of the core balance sheet that we talked about so far in this call.
You should think about that as worth about $65 million per quarter in terms of incremental accreted interest income.
It's related to the $1.9 billion re-class from nonaccretable yield to accretable yield and over the life that it will accrete under and based on the balance it's related to.
Helpful? Merrill Lynch</strong>  Got it.
And just -- yes and the third follow up question is another follow up to John's.
I know you are not going to answer any questions about litigation in depth but I guess as we think about further accruals in your litigation reserve can we expect as we think about the next few quarters Wells Fargo continuing to maintain at 55% to 59% efficiency ratio despite potential higher operating losses from legal accrual? I would say that given everything that we know we anticipate operating between 55% and 59%.
Your next question will come from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks good morning.
First question just on the mortgage business.
I am just wondering John two things.
First of all just your general sense of the gain on sale environment obviously it is continue to reset lower but do you think we've gone to more stable kind of base here? Yes I do.
I think the margins have been running in that 140 to 160 range and from what we see there is rationality in pricing.
And those margins are look reasonable to us.
We have no reason to believe it will be markedly different from that in the near future.
And my second mortgage question and the servicing fees line it had a nice expansion but with the book not growing and rates back down so I am wondering can you give us some context of what the growth driver has been underneath that servicing fees line? Well so it's -- it has a lot to do with servicing expenses.
So fewer on reimburse expenses coming through fewer foreclosure and default expenses so it is more efficient servicing operation and more of the net fees flowing to the bottom line.
Okay.
So we will see that all in the Q? Yes.
Okay.
Then my third question is just on capital and capital return.
Clearly $0.35 dividend you earned $1.01; so above the 30% threshold that we've known to be the benchmark.
So given that we are now past this year's stress test can you just give us your thoughts around flexibility around and above that 30%? And kind of your post-game on how you have looked at this year's stress test process in that regard.
We think 66% payout ratio comes with the combination of repurchase and dividend is an excellent spot to be in.
It is between the goal post that we set up 55% to 75%.
Can't be much more precise than that but we hear our shareholders loud and clear that they want more return of capital.
We are committed to executing on that so that's about all the rest to say.
And we look forward CCAR process.
Okay.
Then my last tiny one related to that is just -- the buyback was bigger the share count just dripped lower.
How close are we to finally getting that average diluted share count really starting to move downward? That's a good question.
You can see the point-to-point numbers that have changed.
The average is what it is just because of the timing in the quarter between when we issued shares to our benefit plans and when shares were repurchased with repurchase was little bit more even throughout that -- throughout the quarter and the issuance was a little bit more front end loaded.
So the average didn't change as much as the point-to-point but it will be probably be like that during quarter where there is slightly heavier issuance but yet we expect the net number to trend down the way we've described it.
Your next question will come from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi what was the amount of gain on the sale of the 40 insurance branches? About a $100 million Okay.
And conceptually was there anything that offset that? I guess you had the increase in litigation accruals of $200 million.
Anything else that would be kind of nonpermanent? It's tough to describe expenses as permanent and non-permanent.
I know you are looking for an offset for that non recurring revenue but the expense story is the efficiency ratio story if we've got for example this quarter higher incentive compensation related to revenue growth that's going to move things around.
We've got our deferred comp hedging that moves things around.
So it is hard to give you a neat offset to that.
How about the run rate in minority expense? There was a decline and that helped a little bit.
Is that permanent? It's hard to say whether that's permanent or not.
We will work with Jim Rowe and get you something specific.
So we can responsive to that  Okay.
And then the increase in investment banking linked quarter was up a lot.
Can you give any context to that? It's broad based so there is some equity capital market debt capital markets loans indication M&amp;A activity it was just a busier quarter I think that our investment banking share might have picked up a little bit but the whole market was busier in the second quarter than it was in first quarter.
And mortgage originations as you mentioned they were up linked quarter.
And it seemed a little bit better than what you were saying at the Investor Day.
So were things a little bit better? And if so why? I know it's not as much as you originally thought for the spring selling season.
But that's a little bit of a bump and I guess you expect a little more of a bump in the third quarter.
Well the gain was at the low end of the range which is how we thought about and described in Investor Day.
In terms of volumes they were -- I think we feel about the same as we did six weeks ago which it is was less than we had originally anticipated.
So we feel about the same.
We are glad the results are good.
They are certainly up seasonally quarter-over-quarter.
But we might have imagined a little bit more going in to year.
Mike about 74% of our originations are production this quarter was purchase money and that really plays into our hand.
We have long-term relationships with realtors and builders.
We have a wonderful crew of people who are our team members are out calling so we should expect to do better vis-à-vis because others who don't have a sales force on the ground.
Okay.
And then last question.
I guess what -- I'd ask two sides of the same question.
Are you taking too much risk in an area such as auto lending where the loans are up 10% year-over-year? You have had some cautionary language from regulators and it seems like every bank is expanding in auto lending.
So are you concerned about that? On the other hand are you taking enough risk? Because based on our models which go back a couple decades it looks like your net charge-off ratio for the firm is the lowest ever in modern history.
So that would say take more risk.
So where do you come out on that decision? Well Mike you hit both side right.
I mean it is I think 35 bases -- it is loss - I remember in my 37 years with the company and in the auto area specifically we looked carefully at what's going on with FICO scores and we look at delinquencies and a whole bunch of things there.
So no I don't think we are taking inappropriate risks.
Is that going for taking the right risks and we are finding the right place? And after all this is a business that we have been in long time and we don't come and show up and leave and secondly it is a short -dated asked that we know a lot about -- And you probably recall at Investor Day we had a specific slide on disclosure on the growth in the auto portfolio in particular that showed among other things over a long period of time what's been going on in our portfolio with FICO scores average loan to value and payment to income ratio of our auto customers.
And each of those has improved not only over the last five years but improved meaningfully from pre crisis levels.
So the portfolio actually looks really good.
Our relationship with -- and autos and our business proposition there is that we own the relationship with dealers.
We banked the dealers directly we provide them with floor plan financing and we provide them with real estate financing.
We bank them personally and we are a very reliable takeout for indirect auto paper and we get more than our fair share as a result of the paper we want and the portfolio composition reflects that.
Your next question will come from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi thanks much.
A couple questions.
One is on the mortgage origination side.
And I think you were doing some rollouts on July 1.
Just wanted to see how those executed and now that that's behind you are there any opportunities to make that side of the business more efficient.
When you say rollout do you mean changes in headcount? Well there were some technology changes and some systems-related changes process-related changes that you did effective July 1.
Well Betsy we have been doing a number of those over a period of time be more efficient and to give our sales force more information upon sale but that's not a big issue.
I mean those things happen that haven't any impact on the business.
Okay.
And then just looking forward a little bit less positive on the outlook for volumes for the full year.
Is there any opportunity to peel back some of the investment in the production side of the business? Or are you sticking with your current plan at this stage? We are very flexible about that.
And constantly reading what we think we need in terms of capacity.
As you know the work force in that line of business has become flexible work force just because of the ebbs and flows of origination patterns as a refinancing opportunity comes into the money and then goes away.
So I think we are very real time in responding and what we think we need.
And if we think that we need more because the third quarter opportunity seems bigger then we will staff it up and if we think that we need less then we will dial it back.
Betsy you are on important point and I think it has been asked couple of times this morning.
In the mortgage's business besides having to be good underwriter good servicers and all those things good at flexibility wrapping up and wrapping down is a core competency here.
And if you are in this business and you have to be good at that.
Okay.
One other thing -- No.
You never know what the volumes are going to be.
Sure; no.
Then one of the things you did mention at Investor Day is that Mel Watt obviously had some suggestions for underwriting and potentially changing some of the elements of the grid and I know that you had indicated that there were several meetings that you were going to be taking -- that were taking place with you and others in DC around those suggestions.
Can you give us any sense as to how those dialogues have been going? Any update on how you're thinking about underwriting in the credit box? Well those meetings with our mortgage company continue with Mel Watt and his team and others.
I think the goals here is to get more credit corporately to borrowers who want to own homes and who can afford homes.
And that's in the interest of borrowers; it is in interest of lenders like us and interest in investors and the country.
So we are trying to harmonize that.
Some things in the past created less harmony.
You low rates at one side encouraging borrowing and you have put backs from the GSEs on the other side that make lenders less willing to lend money.
So we are trying to get everybody on the same page.
I think he has been helpful in that and obviously we are participating in that.
So and as we get more clarity there we can make loans confirming loans that serve more customers.
That's the goal there.
Okay.
As I know you'd spent a lot of time with the FHA and that at the margin helped open the credit box in certain parts.
I mean do you feel like you're at the stage where we're likely to see any changes come this year? Or it's really more of a next-year event with the GSEs? Well I'll tell you predicting what happen in Washington on legislation is -- that's way above my pay scale so but the important point is here is that there are some incremental changes happening and that's helping open the credit box a bit and corporately so we are still doing full underwriting and those sort of things.
But I hate to venture a guess on when GSE reform will become law.
Right.
No I was asking really more about when your credit box on GSEs would loosen up potentially versus what had happened at the FHA where you have already loosened up a little bit there so -- I understand okay.
Well we are just -- we're keep working on that and I think there is lot of emphasis on may be sure again corporate customers get loans that they can repay.
And capturing that first time buyer that lower credit quality customer may be very -- will be very important to that customer when credit becomes available but not likely to change the overarching view of what the size of the mortgage market is in 2014 or 2015.
And it is not likely to have a big impact on earnings of mortgage originators.
There is not that much going on there.
It is very important to them but there aren't enough for those loans at 140 basis points to make a giant different.
Your next question will come from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning.
It seems like from here the efficiency ratio will be increasingly important just given how low the credit costs are at these levels and you talked about maybe some less reserve release going forward.
So just as we think about that efficiency ratio and being closer to the higher end is there opportunity to migrate down in this environment? And if so how do we think about the expense opportunity versus growing revenues? Sure.
Well we are -- I will stand out by saying we are sticking with our 55% to 59% because that's where we think we will be through the cycle.
We constantly focus on our efficiency we spend a lot of time in that many programs designed to root out and to get the bottom of the most efficient use in resources that we can have.
And that's important because there are areas where we continue to spend and invest money to have the right people facing customers and investing the right product for customers.
And there are also areas like risk management compliance technology etcetera where we are making increasing investment to build the better company for the future.
So all that's going on at the same time.
And it would arrive that this 55% to 59%.
You can rest assure that we are doing what we can to keep expense as efficient but I wouldn't count on a big lever there moving down closer to 55% all other things being equal to drive near-term performance.
So couple examples of things that we are doing.
As you know about since the merger five years ago we've reduced the number of square feet that we used to house our people and through our stores and so forth from 100 let say 15 or 17 million square feet to 94-95 million square feet.
We are testing and successfully so a new urban store if you will neighborhood store we have now three of those in the Washington area have a very different expense component but still just as productive.
So there is a lots of things we are working on.
So we can use those dollars and savings to invest in other areas of business that John mentioned.
Expense -- there is lot of focus on that here but not -- again I have said in the past we are not slavish to it.
If our expenses grow because revenues growing up that's a good thing.
And we will make the investment that we believe will make-- need to make for the long-term success of the company.
Okay.
So if I am hearing you correctly as we think about the efficiency ratio going forward there may be some opportunities for it to tick down a little bit more dependent on revenue.
I would say yes surely it is a ratio.
So no matter it is denominator we are working both side of it.
And as we've said publicly in the past to the extent that we had revenue increases as a result of rates moving up.
We probably migrate to the lower end of efficiency ratio because those dollars of revenue don't have expense attached to them.
Okay.
Yes I'm harping on it because the efficiency ratio hasn't really moved the last several quarters.
As we start thinking about the back half of the year and going forward the mortgage revenue comps get a lot easier and it feels like we could start seeing some improvement there so -- Have you noticed that were best in class at the ratio where we currently operate? Understood.
Fair point.
Just separately on the tax rate last quarter came in low; you called out that gain both at the time and then again today.
But today's or the second-quarter tax rate seems a little bit higher than at least what we were looking for.
What is the outlook? Should we pencil in the 32% going forward or --? Yes.
You said pencil today's effective rate going forward.
Okay.
and then just lastly I had a follow-up on an earlier question.
The mortgage servicing revenue that is coming from the MSR gains that is writing up the MSR because the expenses to service the loans are coming down? That's right.
The future cash flows are higher as a result of future expenses coming down current and future expenses coming down.
Okay.
And is there still I feels like there is still opportunity to reduce the cost of servicing going forward which therefore would increase the value of the MSR.
It feels like there is still more of that opportunity there.
There maybe.
We are probably in that middle innings of perfecting servicing over time.
There are still -- and more of elevated level of troubled loans out there compared to what we hope to steady status years from now.
And when that happens it will be in the future and the benefit of will be the discounted than future benefit of it but you are right it is probably opportunities at some point in future.
Your next question will come from the line of Keith Murray with ISI.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks a lot.
Can you spend a minute on cards? So you obviously have increased penetration impressively on the card side.
Just a question: From penetration to actual usage how long does it take? Obviously you guys have shown very solid loan growth on the card side.
But how difficult once they get a card from Wells to get them to start using it to move up the pecking order versus other cards? This is an area that I think is one of our biggest opportunities in the company.
If you look at Wells being as we all talk about in the real economy we have leadership roles in variety of lending classes whether autos in consumer small business real estate and we are just passionate about helping our retail customers understand the value of having a Wells Fargo card and not only in their wallet but top of wallet.
And there were some areas that we were under serving especially our affluent and emerging affluent customers and our partnership with American Express is off to a very good start.
Obviously we do a lot of things it was with VISA and important in Master Card partners of ours.
So we can sell a card to a customer at a fraction of the cost of someone else in the outside.
We know these people better we give them better products and we have a lot of exciting benefits that we are giving as part of the card offering.
And it is not only having the balances there.
It's being involved with the customer on the payment side.
So when we merge the two companies over five years ago Wachovia came without a portfolio because he had sold their card business off so we are at about 22% penetration rate.
Today we are at 39%.
I always tell our people do you know how many of our consumers have credit cards they all do.
In fact they have more than one card.
Now I don't know that we didn't get to 100% but we are marching smartly up the line and you are right it is not only about the number of plastic cards we have outstanding it is one that have been used.
So I am thrilled with what we are doing.
We have still lot more work to do.
Big opportunity for us.
That's right.
And it is both in the balances as well as interchange and utilization.
And it just works beautifully.
Okay.
Just switching gears to OLA you had given us your thoughts on that on Investor Day.
Obviously you guys issued some long-term debt this quarter.
Do you feel like you're getting close to where you're going to wind up needing to be for OLA? Or any updated thoughts and things you're hearing from Washington on that? I wouldn't -- there is no real updated intelligence.
We still are hearing and are of a mind that the range that will probably published at some point in the future is in the high teen to low 20s in terms of loss absorption cushion.
We see ourselves on a risk based approached at the low end of that range and at or within striking distance of that range.
So based on everything that we know today we don't anticipate it having material impact on Wells Fargo.
Okay.
And then just finally for me we have read a lot about the SNC review and regulators focus on leveraged loans etcetera.
Just can you give us any thoughts related to that? And any changes you have seen this year in how the regulators are approaching it versus past years? Well they are talking about it lot and there is multiple regulators talking about it little differently so I think there is an effort to harmonize their points of view.
But obviously they've got a big focus on what's going on with leverage lending inside of banks and banks mean different thing depending on which regulator and which firms are covering.
So I would anticipate more clarity some time later this year or maybe beyond that but it really isn't enough for to understand what's going on and at some level to encourage certain types of behavior and discourage others.
The big emphasis is on the most levered and most collateral free leverage lending.
We don't anticipate having an extraordinary impact on Wells Fargo based on our business mix.
Your next question will come from the line of Brian Foran with Autonomous Research.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi I was wondering if I could ask about deposit growth in the rising-rate scenario.
And I guess if I oversimplify the two schools of thought or the two ends of the spectrum are deposits have only shrank industry wide in 2 of the past 90 years and those were pretty marginal declines; so you can kind of bank on industry deposits growing.
And then I guess JPMorgan was pretty explicit about the other end where they feel like some of the need to drain liquidity out of the system as rates rise could drive deposits down as much as 10%.
So I know there is a lot of uncertainty.
Part of it depends on how the Fed acts.
But as you think about liquidity planning and stress testing you do internally any thoughts on the range of best-case and worst-case deposit growth you think about? Let me just give overall view how we think about it.
I think one of the things that -- is may be under appreciated about Wells today is the quality of our deposit franchise.
And we have $1.1 Trillion of deposit at 10 basis points.
About a $1 Trillion of core deposits and many of these -- most of these deposits what I would call transactional mean that people use these deposits either are they are checking accounts or saving accounts we only have 30 to 40 billion [AR] of CDs we have a very high quality deposit base.
We are also growing primary checking accounts.
Think about that.
The primary account by between 4.5% and 5% lower 5% depending whether it's small business or consumer.
And in fact these some of the strongest growth number we-- I have ever seen.
So because of the quality of our deposit franchise the quality of omnichannel delivery system.
And no one knows of course it will become fact in history what happens with disintermediation about when rates rise and so forth.
I am of the opinion that you are going to see at least for the first couple hundred basis points move up in rate probably very little movement in disintermediation.
You can make the argument that the squeeze down your M1 and M2 and some of the liquidity about the system.
We found over time as you suggest early that deposit generally grow.
And it might not grow as fast as but I am very confident about how all our deposit franchise will perform in a rising rate environment.
That's very helpful.
Maybe on the student loan sale what's your thought process on the decision to sell as opposed to I guess the alternative of just letting it gradually run down over time? Is it a capital free-up or a regulatory? Or what's the benefit of selling out of it now? Sure.
Well we had designated -- that the government guaranteed student loan business which is distinct from our private student loan business that we are very committed to over the long term.
We had separated after government guaranteed part of the portfolio into liquidating portfolio in 2010 when we stopped originating those loans as that market changed.
So they have been part of our run off portfolio for that period of time and amortizing down a little bit.
We see the opportunity in the market to move those loans off the book.
They are relatively low yielding.
They are not strategic.
We don't have bigger relationships with most of those customers and that's the decision.
So we have transferred them all to held for sale status to signal this intend to sell we are going about the process in the next quarter or so.
If I could sneak a last one in on MSR hedging -- or I guess more specifically the line item you give of $475 million the market-related valuation changes net of hedge results.
I feel like -- I always strip that out of core EPS; I always set it at zero and then I always end up being too low.
It's almost always a positive number.
Is that a number that through the cycle you would expect to be kind of a wash? Or am I just missing that there is a carry component to it because of the way you structure the hedge and things like that? Through the cycle it actually -- over the past 5 years it's averaged $200 million a quarter.
And there is a volatile component to it but through the cycle it should be some positive nonzero number? It is a carry component.
The bundle of instrument that we use to hedge the asset to create the right duration profile as rates move up or down that we think the value is -- changing value is neutralized.
That bundle of instruments throws out positive carry.
It will depend on the shape or the slope of the yield curve at different points in time.
And of course in the past it has been impacted by other expense items that have been flowing through they are less of them today.
So it is a little bit more standout in terms of its net.
And then there is also the influence of what happens when rate speed up or down -- prepayment rates speed up or not and of course we have gone through a period recently where the asset is linked-in.
So there is a lot of different things going on there.
And it is not currently what through the cycle actually mean in this context because as rates move you are in different places and as the shape of the curve moves you are in different places that are different than a business cycle or credit cycle.
But you can look at the performance over some period of time and set whatever average you think is right.
But I think zeroing it our is probably conservative.
Your next question is will come from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead with your question.
Great thanks.
Most of my questions have actually been asked and answered.
But one quick thing that the -- you have taken a big step up in capital return.
Just talk a little bit about what might influence you to go to the very high end of your range or to the lower end of your range in subsequent periods.
So we are setting our expectations in our levels internally from one key card process to the next based on how we anticipate that we are going to earn and the negotiation if you will that we are having with regulators which -- it is part of what constructs the balance between dividend and repurchase.
And if you think about an annual payout or if we thought about an annual payout based on the annual number it would be a calculated number in that range.
From quarter-to-quarter as I mentioned earlier with respect to what happen to share count we've got different things going on with share issuance so that the net buyback will be bigger in some quarter than it is in others which is going make us look like we are dancing around inside the range.
And that's the reason for moving around inside the range.
Now more importantly if growth opportunities began to emerge in a more meaningful way where we needed to retain more capital to put it work then that would also be a driver I think Investor Day you probably recall that Paul Ackerman went through an analysis of the amount of capital that we thought was appropriate to set aside for asset growth and that's amount that was -- the amount of earnings necessary are available to distribute.
So that's the starting process.
Just as a follow-up to that any thoughts on portfolio acquisition opportunities in the current environment? Anything standing out? I wouldn't say anything standing out.
We are at there looking in both consumer and commercial and commercial real estate assets.
We've -- I mentioned in the loan growth context that we have done a couple of commercial real estate acquisition.
These are all announced but that have happened in the quarter.
Pardon me that is happened in previous quarters.
So we are looking at those.
We have talked about card programs like the Dillard's program where we will be picking up a portfolio receivable in addition to managing that card program going forward with more opportunity there.
So we are looking at lots of things.
Some things make more sense than others but that's an interesting way for us to add both assets and new customers to the bank.
Got you.
Very last thing.
Just on that up sale just two quick questions.
Do you think you will sell it in one piece or do you think you'd break it up into pieces? And do you service that portfolio? With respect to the first half of the question it depends we would be willing to sell at one piece.
It is a big number.
So it may happen in component pieces.
And on the second half we do not service those loans.
Your next question will come from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Market.
Please go ahead with your question.
Yes thank you very much.
On the mortgage production side the $47 billion that you guys produced how much did you sell into the MBS market and how much did you portfolio? I don't have that number handy.
I think the lion share of that was sold.
Okay.
Do you have handy with you what was jumbo? About $8 billion nonconforming mortgages increased $8 billion to about $96 billion.
Then my guess is you put portfolioed all those nonconforming jumbos.
That's correct.
Go ahead.
The question is whether that $8 billion is part of the $47 billion because if it then that answers the question at what we sold.
So we will confirm that.
Okay.
That makes sense given the MBS issuance data that has been out.
I don't have June; but given May and July I think you probably issued probably somewhere between 33 and 35 so that would coincide with some of that.
Have you been portfolioing any conforming loans on your residential portfolio? Or has it just been nonconforming jumbos? Nonconforming not portfolio conforming.
Yes.
Can you talk a little bit about the pricing of the jumbos? Are they 4.25% 4.5%? Are they mainly 7/1 10/1s? Are you portfolioing any 30-year? So it's a mix 5/1 7/1 10/1 and 30 year and they are priced for their point on the curve.
Your next will come from the line of Chris Mutascio with KBW.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning John.
John how are you? As a happy Wells Fargo deposit customer I got a letter in the mail several weeks ago and I wanted to get your thoughts on it.
It was changing the overdraft no longer going from processing it from a high to low but going now to first received.
I thought that already happened.
I guess I was wrong.
So I guess my question is: Will this have an impact on deposit service charges going forward with the change in the overdraft processing? It is not going to be meaningful no.
Okay.
But has it happened in certain parts of the country? Because I'm here in Baltimore Maryland; I thought it was the old Wachovia franchise.
Has it happened in certain parts of the country? In other words the shift to first received and now we are converting other parts of the country? Or this is throughout the whole franchise? Repeat that one.
This is really as a process we are able to with debit; we are able to do it on a real time basis.
And it was more incorporating that into that hierarchy with checks to get them synchronized and that was the reason for making that change.
Okay.
So again but the end result of that this isn't any impact to deposit service charges going forward? It is not to be meaningful.
Your next question will come from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
Please go ahead with your question.
LLC</strong> Good morning guys.
A question about the spring survey from the OCC where they made some fairly pointed comments about deterioration in credit quality not only in leveraged lending.
I think there was sort of a loosening of loan standards; I mean there were a whole bunch of bullet points that were somewhat alarming from a credit-quality standpoint.
Do you guys see that this is at an inflection point in credit quality? And do you feel or are you feeling increased pressure to maybe start building reserves rather than continuing to let them draw down? So at least two different questions there.
The first part on the competitive environment for loan.
And it is a more competitive environment.
There are lots of people out there.
Lots of banks out there with a lot of liquidity competing for loans.
And we do see more competitive -- more borrower friendly structures that we have to react to from one asset category to another.
Now in some like in mortgage for example part of it is just getting more clarity on what the rules are and what's going to work and what's saleable to agencies and things like that.
And for other things -- for other types of assets we mentioned auto earlier there are people out there who for example are extending the terms on auto loans so links that you might not seen in past.
And of course we are all leverage lending is probably the most visible because it's pretty easy to measure the aggressiveness based on leverage multiple for example.
So those things are happening.
Our front line and relationship managers and others are confronted with having to make decisions about where we want to be in where we don't want to be.
We think we are very good at spotting that.
And managing credit risk has been strength at Wells Fargo as you know for a very long time.
With respect to reserving we are looking at our risk allowance for credit losses every quarter and it reflects and its change reflects what's going on in the portfolio.
When its bottom up analysis of what's in the portfolio what it looks like what's risk rated how it is performing and what our expectations is for near term credit losses.
And as we said here we anticipate reserve releases declining over some period of time in part to reflect -- from 35 basis points it's hard to argue that whether it can get much better from there or sort of bounded by zero on the one side and would expect to gravitate more towards some whatever normalized means with some higher level of net charge-off.
So that's going on the one hand and then there is portfolio growth.
As we said we had a lot of new loans put on and all things being equal at some point our reserves will have to grow to reflect the increased loan balances which we think is a great thing because we want those loans on the books serving customers earning interest and creating the environment to cross sell those customers.
That's how I see them.
LLC</strong> Do you think you will have an ability to telegraph the change that will actually happen when you have to start building reserves? Because my guess is that the industry is going to be -- or Wall Street is going to be somewhat shocked when that starts to happen.
As I look at the industry data so what's going on with reserve releases from other banks they have been trending and it begun to trend with a few exceptions back up towards zero.
So I think people see that coming and it's a reflection of asset growth on one hand which is a good thing and then of course the big reserves that we put on at the -- in the heat of the crisis that in some cases were more than relative what was necessary.
So we look at quarter-by-quarter just to be clear this is a gap exercise we built it up based on what's actually in the portfolio and the experience that we are managing.
As you have seen in the data right now our allowance for credit loss is pushing 5x what our actual charge-off experience is right now.
Our final question will come from the line of Andrew Marquardt with Evercore.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning guys.
Thanks.
Just a couple follow-ups here.
Just to be clear on the line of questioning from Nancy on credit quality so just looking -- it feels like to your point maybe it's hard to get much better than 35 basis points in aggregate and recovery seem to be less robust and maybe it's a very modest uptick in C&amp;I.
Like how should we think about the level? I mean should we think about it in this very low range for a period of time and we're still very far from what you've previously deemed as normalized the 75 to 85 basis points? How should we think about maybe that near-term?  I think it's going to be hard for the 35 basis points to move rapidly to any much higher number.
And we know what kind of assets we have been putting on the book for the last few years which I think we all believe are very high credit quality particularly on a historical basis.
So normalization will happen over some period of time but at least from our perspective we wouldn't expect it to be an abrupt move.
Credit is still quite strong.
Got it.
Then just a little ticky-tack on the reserving.
So not only for the loan growth that's picking up and relief from legacy issues for the industry there is also this upcoming change in accounting at some point.
Any update or thoughts on the CECL coming through and when one might need to start thinking about that for the industry in general? Yes.
So what we know about that is that it sounds like it is going to happen.
It is not final but we are going to be hearing about it from the Fed in the coming quarters.
And at least the way I read it there is not going to be much of an opportunity to change anyone's mind.
But of course for anybody who is included into this this is life of low-- essentially life of loan reserving.
The expectation our expectation is that would begin to phase in the 2017 timeframe or later.
And so it's not really today's issue and just for the avoidance of doubt our reserving practices today do not reflect that future contemplated life of reserving -- life of loan loss approach.
So it's out there let's call it 2017 plus and something wrong and have to figure out how to adapt to.
Great that's helpful.
Then lastly just following on the balance sheet dynamic questions and the NIM optics and issues around deposits.
Can you maybe just re-clarify in terms of deposit velocity in a higher rate environment that Brian had brought up earlier? How much -- I mean do you if at all consider ring-fencing 5% 10% 15% of deposits maybe at risk of reversing in a higher rate environment as some institutions have indicated? I wouldn't say that we don't describe it in our deposit stress testing internally in quite that way.
And we talk about the types of deposit accounts that we have and we assigned what we think are the right level of behaviors to those accounts and through that we assess what we think the right level of liquidity is to carry and that liquidity comes in the form both of cash and cash equivalent which are extraordinary at Wells Fargo today as well as our securities are relatively liquid securities portfolio that we in a pinch would consider to be saleable or financeable.
And answering a slightly different question the sum of those two things is such a significant part of our balance sheet today that it seems like ample coverage for whatever portion of deposits might be -- might unexpected retract or disappear in the event of move up.
And I think as I mentioned before I think we are going -- our deposit franchise will out perform competitors because of the nature of the kind of deposits we have and the amount of core deposits (inaudible) amount of retail core and I think there is going to be surprise I think we will surprise ourselves and how well it's going to do.
That's right.
We have the relationships that we have with our deposit customers is cemented by the tools that we have that we use that the products that we offer them and allow them to manage their money.
So whether it's a consumer or a business customer we've got the best in class interface that allows them -- and frankly it is hard to move away from -- in terms of moving money analyzing money investing money etcetera the mobile convenience the online convenience what we have referred to as this omnichannel relationship.
It's not easy or convenient to want to change that.
So something really has to be compelling about an individual depositor circumstances or we would have to really be tone deaf to what deposit pricing needs to do in order to retain our balances.
So we feel really good about that.
Thanks that's helpful.
Then if you don't mind just in terms of -- you've mentioned a couple quarters now how you've had this great continued growth in core deposits.
But it's optically impacted the NIM but hasn't really negatively impacted the NII.
Would a similar dynamic be envisioned in a higher rate environment if in fact the velocity was greater than one envisioned? In terms of it could go the other way and you could have an optically better net interest margin; but the NII could remain relatively stable despite all that.
Or how should we think about that? Or how do you think about that? What's happened in the past is typically what happen is that the margin will increase and net interest income increase because assets have reprised faster than liabilities will.
So I mean – hypothetically we will wait to see what happens at that time.
Got it great thank you guys.
All right.
Well thank you much everybody.
We appreciate your interest in Wells Fargo.
Thank you for joining the call.
Excellent questions and we will see you next quarter.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all participating.
And you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Rowe you may begin your conference.
Thank you Regina.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today where our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf; and our CFO John Shrewsberry will discuss third quarter results and answer your questions.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that our third quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at wellsfargo.com.
I’d also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today’s call that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.
Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can also be found in our SEC filings in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website.
I will now turn our call over to our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf.
Thank you Jim and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
Our strong results in the third quarter reflect the benefit of our diversified business model and were driven by our continued focus on meeting our customers’ financial needs in the real economy.
Let me highlight our growth during the third quarter compared with a year ago.
We generated earnings of $5.7 billion and earnings per share of $1.02 both up 3%.
We grew net interest income and non-interest income resulting in 4% revenue growth; and our efficiency ratio improved to 57.7%.
Pretax pre-provision profit increased 7%.
We had strong broad-based loan growth with our core loan portfolio up almost $51 billion or 7%.
Our credit performance continued to be excellent with the net charge-off ratio declining to only 32 basis points on average loans on an annualized basis.
We had a $300 million reserve release this quarter down from $900 million a year ago.
In fact in my 32 plus years with the company I have not seen credit better.
Our deposit franchise continued to generate strong customer and balance growth with total deposits up $89 billion or 9%.
We grew primary consumer checking customers by 4.9% and primary small business and business checking customers by 5.6%.
This level of business performance has enabled us to maintain strong capital levels even while returning more capital to our shareholders through a higher dividends and share repurchases.
We returned a net $3.6 billion to our shareholders in the third quarter up 29% from a year ago.
Before I turn it over to John Shrewsberry our CFO I’d like to take a minute or two and share some of my thoughts on the economy and the housing market.
While the path to a full economic recovery remains uneven including the volatility we’ve seen recently and the current low rate environment provides some challenges I am very optimistic about the future.
The U.S.
economy added 248 000 jobs last month the 48 straight monthly employment gain tying the record for the longest consecutive string of job gains ever.
There are currently more job openings than at any time since early 2001.
Household wealth is at an all-time high and after years of paying down debt the consumer debt burden is at the lowest level in over 30 years.
Consumers are now better positioned for increased spending and borrowing.
The U.S.
economy is also benefiting from the increasing domestic oil and gas productions which is at the highest level in almost 30 years and rising fast up 14% over the past year.
Fiscal conditions have improved at all levels of government and government payrolls are once again on the rise for the first time this decade.
Historically most recoveries in this country have been led by housing.
While the residential real estate market has definitely gotten better which is good for the U.S.
economy it has not fully recovered.
I believe there are several factors holding the housing market back from a complete recovery.
First household formation is slower than it has been in the past.
Second national student debt balances have increased leading less money available to pay for our mortgage.
Third in some markets inventory is not available especially in coastal areas.
Finally credit is still not obtainable for all qualified borrowers due in part to the credit overlays that many mortgage lenders including Wells Fargo use to help reduce repurchase risk.
Despite these challenges a recent survey we conducted showed that home ownership is still an aspiration for 95% of respondents.
Home prices are up 7% over the past year and I believe the housing market will continue its recovery driven by pent-up demand and affordability that even with the increase in home prices is still far better than the historical average.
These trends are all positive for our country our customers our shareholders as well as Wells Fargo and we continue our service to the real economy.
Now John Shrewsberry CFO will provide more details on our third quarter results.
John? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
My comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly supplements starting on page two.
John and I will then answer your questions.
Wells Fargo had another strong quarter earning $5.7 billion and growing EPS to $1.02.
Generating this level of consistent earnings while economic growth has been uneven and interest rates have remained low demonstrates the benefit of our diversified business model.
We grew both revenue and pre-tax pre-provision profit from second quarter and have grown pretax pre-provision profit for four consecutive quarters.
Our results also reflected solid loan and deposit growth that was diversified across our businesses.
Our capital levels remained strong even as we returned $3.6 billion to shareholders through common stock dividends and net share repurchases.
As John highlighted and as you can see on page three we had strong year-over-year growth across a number of important business drivers.
We grew net interest income amidst the persistent low rate environment with strong earning asset growth; and our ability to grow non-interest income by $542 million or 6% from a year ago even as mortgage originations declined by 40% demonstrates the benefit of our diversified sources of fee income.
Page four highlights our revenue diversification and the balance between spread and fee income.
We have over 90 businesses and in any given quarter some will drive more revenue growth than others.
For example the strength in the markets over the past few years has benefited our market sensitive businesses.
Market sensitive revenue was 5% of our total revenue in the third quarter up from 4% in the second quarter but lower than the 7% contribution in the first quarter.
Let me highlight some key drivers of our third quarter results from a balance sheet and income statement perspective starting on page five.
Our balance sheet has never been stronger; we’ve increased our liquidity position improved the quality of our assets and hold more capital.
Furthermore while we’re positioned to benefit from rising rates we’re confident in our ability to continue to deliver strong results if rates remain low.
Investment securities increased $9.9 billion from the second quarter with $25 billion of purchases partially offset by run-off.
We issue $16.3 billion of liquidity related long-term debt as well as some additional liquidity related short-term funding during the third quarter.
We are now solidly over 100% for the LCR but keep in mind that the LCR is a minimum requirement.
We have a significant amount of cash available to deploy both to meet our customers’ financial needs and to opportunistically purchase high quality assets.
Turning to the income statement on page six revenue grew $147 million during the quarter with growth in net interest income and stable non-interest income.
I will highlight the drivers of revenue growth in more detail later but let me take a moment now to highlight the growth in market sensitive revenue which increased $231 million from second quarter.
Net gains from debt securities were up $182 million as we sold securities primarily non-agency MBS as part of our ongoing balance sheet management.
Net gains from equity investments were up $263 million from second quarter reflecting strong results in our venture capital businesses but were down a $135 million from first quarter.
We’ve been in these core businesses for decades and results are naturally cyclical and driven by market conditions.
Non-controlling interest reduces the impact of the equity gains to our net income and increased $166 million from second quarter.
The increase in market sensitive revenue from debt and equity gains was partially offset by $214 million of lower trading gains the decline in trading reflected $163 million of lower deferred compensation plan investment results which was offset in employee benefits expense and lower customer accommodation trading.
Our results this quarter also reflected $227 million of lower income tax expense from the second quarter reflecting tax benefits primarily due to charitable donations of appreciated securities.
As shown on page seven we continued to have strong broad-based loan growth in the third quarter our 13th consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth.
Our core portfolio grew by $50.8 billion or 7% from a year ago and was up $12.2 billion or 6% annualized from the second quarter.
Our liquidating portfolio was down $21 billion from a year ago and is now only 8% of our total loans down from 10% a year ago.
Average loan yields have remained relatively stable over the past year and were up one basis point from second quarter.
On page eight we highlighted a number of our loan portfolios that had strong year-over-year growth.
C&amp;I loans were up $23.8 billion or 13% from a year ago with diversified growth that I’ll highlight on the next page.
We’re the largest commercial real-estate lender in the country and we’re benefiting from the growth in new construction.
Our commercial real-estate portfolio grew $3.1 billion from a year ago.
Foreign loans grew $700 million or 2% from a year ago reflecting growth in trade finance and the UK commercial real-estate acquisition we completed in the third quarter of last year.
Core 1-4 family first mortgage loans grew $16.4 billion or 9% from a year ago with growth in high quality non-conforming mortgages primarily jumbo loans.
The credit quality of our core mortgage portfolio was outstanding with only seven basis points of loss in the third quarter.
We’re the number one auto lender in the country.
Auto loans were up $5.5 billion or 11% from last year reflecting strong originations.
Credit card balances were up $2.8 million or 11% from a year ago benefiting from continued account growth.
Slide nine demonstrates the diversity of the businesses that contributed to the growth in C&amp;I loans; let me highlight just a few.
Asset-backed finance increased $5.3 billion with increased utilization and new originations across all asset classes.
Corporate banking grew $4.4 billion driven by new customer growth and higher utilization rates from existing customers.
And commercial banking serving our middle market customers grew $3.8 billion with diversified growth across geographies and industries.
As you can see on page 10 average deposits totaled $1.1 trillion in the third quarter up $25.6 billion from second quarter with growth in both commercial and consumer balances.
Due to our outstanding deposit franchise we’ve been able to grow deposits over 5% on a year-over-year basis every quarter since the third quarter of 2011.
Our primary consumer checking customers were up 4.9% from a year ago and we grew primary small business and business banking checking customers by 5.6%.
Our average deposit costs were 10 basis points in the third quarter consistent with second quarter and 2 basis points lower than a year ago.
Our NIM declined 9 basis points from the second quarter 4 basis points of this decline was from strong customer driven deposit growth because excess deposits remain invested in cash equivalents in the current environment.
Deposit growth put pressure on the NIM but was basically neutral to net interest income.
Liquidity-related actions both term deposits and long-term debt also diluted the margin by 4 basis points.
The impact of all other balance sheet growth and reprising was again minimal this quarter reducing the margin by one basis point.
Despite the decline in the net interest margin we continue to grow net interest income on a tax equivalent basis up $147 million from the second quarter as a result of the growth in earning assets higher PCI accretion and one additional day in the quarter.
Our balance sheet is asset-sensitive so we’re well positioned to benefit from higher rates but we’re not relying on rates to increase in order to generate growth.
As we have demonstrated in this historically low rate environment we believe we can grow net interest income overtime even if rates remain low.
While total non-interest income was unchanged from the second quarter we had growth across a number of business drivers including deposit service charges retail brokerage trust and investment management card fees commercial real estate brokerage and the market-sensitive revenue that I highlighted earlier.
This growth was offset by lower investment banking fees which declined 24% from second quarter consistent with the decline in the market people [ph].
Insurance was down $65 million reflecting the impact from the sale of 40 offices last quarter and also seasonality in the crop insurance business.
Other non-interest income was down $95 million from second quarter which had included the gain from the sale of the insurance offices.
Mortgage banking revenue declined $90 million from second quarter.
Mortgage origination gains were up $266 million from last quarter primarily due to gain on sale margins increasing to 182 basis points and higher mortgage repurchase reserve release.
The majority of our originations were tied to purchase activity 70% originations in the third quarter up from 59% a year ago.
We currently expect originations to be down in the fourth quarter reflecting normal seasonality in the purchase market.
Servicing income declined $356 million from second quarter; approximately one-half of this decline was from higher unreimbursed direct servicing products which reduced gross servicing fee.
The rest of the decline was driven by lower net mortgage servicing rights results reflecting lower carry and hedging gains.
Our gain on sale margin is expected to remain within the range we’ve seen over the past four quarters.
As shown on page 13 expenses were up $54 million from second quarter while our efficiency ratio improved to 57.7%.
We’ve consistently worked to improving our efficiency which has enabled us to maintain a high level of customer service while we’ve continue to appropriately invest in our businesses.
We’ve been significantly increasing our investments in our already strong risk management practices.
Our quarterly expenses related to risk and compliance have increased by approximately $100 million over the past year and we’ve added over 1 500 team members in this area.
Additionally operating losses in the third quarter were $417 million primarily reflecting litigation accruals.
We expect our efficiency ratio will remain within our target range of 55% to 59% in the fourth quarter.
Turning to our business segments starting on page 14 community banking earned $3.5 billion in the third quarter up 4% from a year ago and up 1% from second quarter.
By consistently providing outstanding customer service with the convenience of the most extensive store network in the country an award winning mobile and online banking we’ve had strong net household growth.
In fact August was our strongest month for net retail bank household growth in over three years.
These additional households will help drive our future growth as we focus on offering customers the products and services they need to help them succeed financially.
Our results continued to benefit from growth in our debit and credit card business.
Debit card purchase volume was up 8% from a year ago driven by primary checking customer growth and increased usage from existing customers.
Credit card purchase volume grew 16% from a year ago.
We’ve continued to increase our credit card penetration rate growing from 36% a year ago to 39.7% and our new customers are spending more and transacting at a greater frequency.
By consistently focus on meeting the financial needs of our small business customers Wells Fargo has been America’s number one lender to small businesses for 12 consecutive years.
We do business with 1 in 10 small businesses and grew primary business checking customers by 5.6% from a year ago.
Wholesale banking earned $1.9 billion in the third quarter down 3% from a year ago and 2% from second quarter.
While earnings were down there were number of underlying trends that demonstrated business momentum.
Loan growth remained strong up $28.8 billion or 10% from a year ago with growth across many businesses as I highlighted earlier.
Credit quality remained outstanding with seven consecutive quarters of net recoveries.
Deposit growth was also strong with average core deposits of $43.1 billion or 18% from a year ago with diversified growth across wholesale businesses.
Wholesale banking cross-sell increased to 7.2 products per relationship up from 7.0 a year ago.
And treasury management grew revenue by 9% from a year ago reflecting new product sales and re-pricing.
Wealth brokerage and retirement earned $550 million in the third quarter up 22% from a year ago and 1% from second quarter.
Year-over-year results were driven by strong revenue growth up 7% with increases in both net interest income and non-interest income.
Asset-based fees increased 18% from a year ago reflecting increased market valuation and net flows.
WBR results continue to benefit from strong loan growth up 13% from a year ago driven by growth in high quality non-conforming mortgage loans and security-based lending.
This was WBR’s fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year loan growth.
Turning to page 17 credit quality continued to improve with charge-offs at historic lows.
Our new charge-off ratio declined to just 32 basis points with average loans; consumer losses were 62 basis points and commercial loans had a net recovery of two basis points.
The improvement in our asset quality reflected the benefit of the improving economy and our continued focus on originating high quality loans.
For example approximately 57% of the consumer first mortgage portfolio was originated after 2008 when new underwriting standards were implemented.
Non-performing assets have declined for eight consecutive quarters and were down $406 million from second quarter.
Non-accrual loans declined $607 million while foreclosed assets increased $201 million driven by higher government ensured or guaranteed properties primarily in judicial states.
The reserve release was $300 million in the third quarter down $200 million from the second quarter and down $600 million from a year ago.
We continue to expect future reserve releases absent a significant deterioration in the economy but expect a lower level of future releases as the rate of credit improvement slows and the loan portfolio continues to grow.
Our capital level has remained strong with our estimated common equity Tier 1 ratio under Basel III using the advanced approach fully phased in at 10.46% in the third quarter.
While the amount of RWA we determined under the standardized and advanced approaches has been converging our ratio this quarter was determined under the advanced approach because RWA under the advanced approach was higher.
As shown on slide 19 our strong capital levels have allowed us to return more capital to our shareholders.
We returned $3.6 billion to shareholders in the third quarter and our net payout ratio is 66% in the third quarter within our target range of 55% to 75%.
Our common shares outstanding declined by 34.9 million shares in the quarter the largest decline in over six years.
We purchased 48.7 million common shares and entered into a $1 billion forward repurchase contract that’s expected to settle in the fourth quarter for approximately 19.8 million shares.
We reduced our common shares outstanding by 58.7 million shares from a year ago and expect further reductions in the fourth quarter.
In summary our results in the third quarter reflect the benefit of our diversified business model which has enabled us to produce strong and consistent results over a variety of economic and interest rate environments.
Our results were driven by strong loan and deposit growth and we grew revenue and pretax pre-provision profits.
We increased our capital levels and returned more capital to shareholders.
We continued to execute against all of the targets we established at Investor Day operating within our stated ranges for ROA ROE efficiency ratio and capital return.
Our balance sheet has never been stronger reflecting higher capital liquidity levels and improved asset quality.
While we’re well positioned to benefit from increased economic activity and higher rates as we’ve demonstrated by our consistent financial performance in a variety of environments we’re not depending on the economy improving or rate rising to generate strong results.
I’m optimistic about our future opportunities as we continue to focus on serving customers and growing relationships.
I will now open up the call to questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question will come from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
John my first question is on the net interest income and net interest margin.
We hear you loud and clear in terms of the message with regards to the NII trajectory.
As we think about the net interest margin going forward given the stability of your loan yield over the past three quarters and your funding cost also stable over the past three quarters.
Is really there is the incremental hit on the margin in this rate environment really going to come from deposit flow given that you did issued $16 billion in debt in the quarter for liquidity purposes already? So that’s probably true and it also has a lot to do with what we choose to do with the access deposits or frankly access funding as it sits on our balance sheet.
We’re making choices between leaving that liquidity in cash equivalents setting at the Fed or deploying it in the HQLA or loans for that matter if there enough demand for it or other assets with yields.
And we’re making those determinations based on how we feel about entry points in the market and what we think it does to our capital sensitivity in the event of a backup subsequently and it’s those types of choices that are going to drive us to increase the all-in yield on the west side of the balance sheet whether the funding is coming from deposits or from term funding.
Merrill Lynch</strong> Got it.
And my second question is given Governor Tarullo’s speech early in the September there are clearly two ruling issues where the industry that may not be as relevant to Wells.
Higher CET 1 buffers relative to your short-term funding base and also the interpretation of NSSR by over rules by Basel.
Do you see advantage given where you are on both the business mix and capital spectrum to perhaps take advantage of players that need to have more stringent buffers mainly in terms of continuing to grow market share in wholesale banking? It’s possible.
On both of the measures we think we end up at the low-end of the risk-adjusted spectrum in terms of the bad outcomes that occur.
And that might give us an opportunity to do a little bit more for our customers if they needed and if the risk-adjusted returns are appropriate.
I think that the -- we’re all waiting to see what happens to the returns in those businesses based on the actions taken by people who are constrained by both of those -- who are more constrained by both of those new ratios.
What it means for pricing what it means for our customer behavior et cetera.
But we’re happy with the approach that we’ve taken and we’re here to serve the customers that we have.
And but you are right we’re probably at the more advantaged end of the spectrum with respect to both of those measures.
Yes.
Erika I said to add to that nothing that’s happening to-date and nothing that we see in the horizon will allow will get in our way or impede our way to help customers and to serve them.
And I think that puts us in a very good position.
Great I’ll step-off.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Hi.
John I appreciate your color on reminding us about that minority interest back out on some of the trading related activities.
But just wondering if you can help us understand from those portfolios that still generate a healthy amount of fee income what’s kind of left in it still there if you think across net gains from trading activities debt securities and net gains from equity investment sort of question that comes up frequently with the investment community? Sure.
Well there are variety of different businesses that contribute to those results.
So the big drivers would be our -- the venture activity that we have the Norwest Venture Partners it would be the activity of investment banking where we’ve got customer combination trading.
It’s the impact of the hedging that we do for our deferred comp program and then there is at least in this quarter and probably in future quarters some amount of balance sheet management on the debt portfolio.
And they all contribute.
So it’s a diversified set of investments different drivers in each case some of them are more sensitive to where we are in the rate cycles some of them are more sensitive to where we are in the equity valuation cycle.
But they’ve contributed more or less you’ll call it 4% 5% to 7% or 8% over a number of quarters.
And there isn’t one thing that I would hang on I’d think of them as being core to our business results in different ways but over the long-term.
Ken? And John mentioned that within those business decades actually a lot of decades 50 years so this with respect to venture and equity partners so these are long term businesses for us.
Yes.
And I think that’s the point which is that you don’t see any growth coming as far as the ability to continue to realize either gains or benefits from those activities and there is some countercyclical pieces within it as well? They are part of what’s a broader set of diversified non-interest income whatever it is.
So whether they’re contributing 4% or 7% as it has been in recent history and how they work in sync with all of the other things that are going on in terms of customer facing fee generating activity that is the diversified model.
And as I mentioned some of them are more interest rate sensitive and were in a low rate environment so there is higher unrealized gains.
Some of them are levered to equity markets and exit strategies for portfolio investments.
But I would think of them as part of the broader mix of diversified non-interest income sources.
Understood.
And my next question is just on the expense side understanding that you’re going to still be living in this some 55% 59% range we did see kind of flattish fee side a little bit NII growth but then a little bit of higher expenses as well.
And I’m just wondering as you think about that level of expenses and continue to manage forward in what’s still looking to be a pretty tough rate environment and these ongoing challenges from NIM pressures any adjustments that you’re thinking about or contemplating as far as just kind of the need to continue to manage that expense base even tighter than you’ve already been and where would opportunities be so?  We’re always trying to be as efficient as we can to make sure that we have the resources available to deliver what customers need.
And of course as we’ve mentioned we’re at a time when the focus in the investment in the risk management area is very high.
So we’re working constantly to try and be as efficient as we can and in areas where it won’t impact customers and where it doesn’t hinder us in terms of our risk management activity.
Some examples which we’ve talked about a little bit before are really in other areas for example the space that we consume the way we think about our purchasing the technology that we use et cetera.
We can always be a little bit more efficient.
And it’s a constant job here to try and make the most of that.
But you guys haven’t felt that incremental compliance burden increasing to a level where you feel the need to pull the continuous improvement cord? I think we are pulling the continuous improvement cord and in part because we’re spending more in compliance and risk management like we’re spending more in our -- in the customer experience and our customer facing activity.
But in order to afford both of those things we have to be really vigilant around the business as usual expenses; and that’s continuous improvement.
Understood thanks guys.
Your next question will come from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
John question on the mortgage revenues; on the servicing side the growth servicing revenues are down about 200 million you mentioned the unreimbursed servicing costs.
Is that for your one-timers that the pop-up and those it seems like those were coming down from a while and then they’ve kind of reversed this quarter that just bounced around or any color you can give on that? It had come down; it bounced back up.
Our sense is that trajectory is going to be reduced over the longer ark of the mortgage servicing cycle; it’s going to be hard to forecast it quarter-to-quarter.
So I wouldn’t expect it as low as it’s been for the last couple of quarters this maybe a more average quarter.
And over some period of time as the level of non-performing loans foreclosed assets et cetera begins to abate then you’d expect that to raced itself down but this is probably a relatively normal level.
Okay.
And in terms of capital on the advanced approach you mentioned the RWA kind of ratio to total assets seems like it got a little better on better credit quality and data refinements.
Any more color on that? Is that something that also just kind of bounces around quarter-to-quarter or we still have some model improvements you can do from here? There is always more that we can do with improved and more focus on data and modeling.
But you could come to a point where just because of the nature of our assets loans and securities that attract the risk weights that they do that were constrained on the standardized side.
So and we mentioned that they are converging they are very close together right now in terms of the RWA calculation.
But the takeaway is that our capital level did increase a little bit in the quarter under the advanced approach.
And in spite of that we’re still earning north of 13% as an ROA which we’re very proud of.
And that stuff that just rolled off in terms of the better credit-quality like older assets that roll off is that why it’s getting better? It’s a combination of roll off and hard work around data and modeling and continuous refinement.
And with that ratio at 10.46 is this the kind of level that you want to run at on Tier 1 common? Tough to say.
As we said in Investor Day this is probably in excess of the buffer that we might have imagined when we originally vectored in toward our regulatory capital levels.
And it’s really a function of CCAR and some of the assumptions that are made in the CCAR process as it is applied.
So as we go from CCAR to CCAR and we present our starting capital point we present our expected capital generation and our capital actions and what they yield in terms of capital levels we’re trying to manage that as appropriately as we can to got the right amount of return back to shareholders which we believe that we’ve done at a 66% payout ratio.
But it’s an art form because of all of the inputs and the other actors in the process.
Okay.
And just a quick follow-up to Erika’s question on the liquidity building it sounds like you’re now above the minimums of your calculations but you might decide to build some buffer going forward so we might expect a little bit more on that front from you? So I think we’re in a period where big banks are trying to figure out what the right buffer is as a result of our own internal stress testing and the expectations on G-SIBs in particular.
So we’re in the phase.
We feel great about where we are right now.
Nobody has mentioned [deal lack] yet but there is some work to do to figure out where we’re going on that front and how that -- what the interplay is between liquidity we’ve already built and what future requirements are going to be.
So I think that heavy lifting is probably behind us for the time being.
But I wouldn’t say that we’re stopped.
And John one of the strengths of the company of course is our continued ability to grow high quality low cost core deposits which is critical in all of this.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Thanks John.
Your next question will come from the line of Matt O’Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Hey Matt.
Hey Matt.
Just wanted to open some of the rate related questions earlier this was not a Wells specific issue but you are the first of kind of the original banks to come out.
If the tenure does stay right now it’s sitting at 2 to 2.2 my screen shows.
Is this meaningful as we think about I guess both the NIM and then could there be some opportunities on refis if we stay down here for a little bit? I don’t know if that gets us back in the money refi scenario but probably still some distance away from that.
I think that it is meaningful than it’s more about the expectation that how long rates stay low because that will influence the decision to redeploy cash equivalents into assets with duration.
And if you imagine that term rates are going to back up in the foreseeable future just from a capital preservation perspective you’re probably less likely to redeploy out of cash and into higher earning assets.
And so that’s the calculus and the judgment that we make here relatively regularly and it feels frankly like the market is now discounting the idea that there is any sort of meaningful move up in rates in the 2015 timeframe.
So if we’re going to be lower for longer I think it means a lot for banks like ours and it could mean you have to be that much more vigilant on expenses.
I think it means you have to think about how your assets are deployed and how much cash you think you really need to carry.
And we’ll be conducting that balance between the risk to capital if rates back up and the risk to earnings if rates stay low or underinvested.
Okay.
And then I guess a somewhat related theme spread pressure in the commercial lending business.
We saw your yields down about 10 bps quarter-to-quarter.
And I guess there is two phenomenon that’s going on.
One the new loans that you’re adding at lower spreads just generally speaking for the industry but then maybe some loans that you did a few years ago are coming up for renewal and there is some de-pricing there.
Maybe just talk about like which of those two is a bigger driver at this point how should we think about other dynamics in that book? I don’t know which of those two drove the 10 basis-point drop in this quarter or who was a greater contributor to that drop in this quarter.
It is a competitive environment out there.
We’re happy to be able to have a full toolkit when we square off with our commercial customers because we’re in a position to earn more of their business and to generate more of a return on the risk capital that’s associated with the loan that we’re going to make.
We contrast ourselves with some other firms that we compete with who are getting paid primarily from the loan yield itself enough from the broader relationship.
So we like our competitive stance in that range.
We have backed away from the table in some situations not so much on price but where we see credit or terms getting a little bit frothy because that’s another lever that people pull in order to compete for these types of assets.
Okay.
Any signs of stabilization in that spread or just still in (inaudible)? I think at some level it’s got to be stabilized by the marginal player who is only getting a return from the asset itself because there are levels below which they can’t go because they’re not going to generate a sufficient return on capital.
And they have no other cards to play in terms of generating relationship returns by providing product or service.
And some of the smaller banks who participate in those markets would be examples of that.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question will come from the line of Joe Morford with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hello Joe.
Thanks.
Good morning John and John.
Hey Joe.
I guess looking at your new C&amp;I slide on page nine how much of your growth do you think is coming from market share gains as opposed to increased demand? And along those lines last quarter you talked about seeing increased confidence among business owners.
Is that still the case generally? Well speaking for market share gains it depends on which column in that slide you’re talking about.
We have leading market share and our increasing share in some of those businesses; and some of them they might include examples of businesses where we’ve chosen to slow down a little bit if the competition’s got racy.
So it’s a combination of things of both market share growth and of the size of the market increasing.
So Joe if you look at more than just commercial customers broadly there has actually been fairly good activity now there has been volatility lately in the market but if you look auto sales and we participate in that business of course August was the biggest sales month maybe in I don’t know how many years.
Consumers our credit card activities are increasing.
We’re doing -- we had growth in our mortgage portfolio.
So it’s very broad-based.
And when I’m out calling customers corporate customers middle-market customers there seems to be more -- at least more discussion about activity.
And the marketplace is not totally ubiquitous; there is places that are stronger and energy for example and those places are really doing well; [Agus] having a pretty good year; technology.
It depends on what part the requirement is.
But core I see and I hear more optimism than I heard a year ago for example.
Okay.
That’s helpful color.
I guess lastly just can you share with us any thoughts on Apple Pay and how readily you see it being adopted and what sort of impact it may have on the broader payments business? Yes as you know we are participating in that.
And there are I think 7 million to 8 million [terminals] merchants out of the marketplace and only a few hundred thousand have the NFC chip in them and that you need that the near field communication chip.
So this will take there will be an adoption but we’re pleased and excited on behalf of our customers to participate in that.
And it will evolve over time.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Betsy.
Hey couple of questions.
One was on the two that you did mention there obviously is something that you’re in the review of.
I think the expectation is that in the U.S.
at least we’ll have to have senior through common 20% to 25% of risk weighted assets.
And if you’re on the high-end of that range can you give us a sense of what you might do to minimize any impact? There is still a lot to know.
We’re seeing similar headline numbers maybe a little bit lower 19.5 to 23.5.
And this is all research that’s been published based on information that’s in the market that hasn’t beneficially sanctioned.
So who knows? And over what period of time it has to get phased in is unknown.
What counts what doesn’t count among your existing capital structure is unknown.
What -- which entities that you issue out of and whether there are going to be caps on those types of things.
So there is a handful of questions that are unknown.
Our sense is that we’re going to end up at the lower end of the range.
We calculate that we probably have about 18% today that qualifies and for the end up having the issue we’ll probably be issuing a form of senior unsecured mostly Holdco debt.
And it will happen over some period of time.
And it will end up being an earnings drag because we’ll issue that debt and pay our corporate spread and we’ll take that cash and we’ll reinvest it in some more yielding either HQLA or equivalent.
And it will become a new part of the cost structure and capital structure of bank.
So my short answer is there is still a lot to know but we’ll deal with it when it comes and it doesn’t seem instrumental.
Right.
And there is no rush to get it done quickly right I mean I think it’s -- you have until 01/01/19? Don’t know yet but I’ve heard it similarly that it will be a longish raise in period.
Okay.
Then two other quick questions one is on the auto business.
You highlighted that you are nation’s largest bank lender of auto and wanted to understand how you’re thinking about that given the risk retention rules that are out there clearly it’s just a proposal so it’s not fully baked yet but this outline that you have to at sometime in the future hold 5% of any securitizations that you do in auto.
Does that matter to you? It doesn’t matter to us in our current business model because we don’t securitize our auto loans; we own 100% of the risk on every one of them.
And frankly in the auto loan securitization business for those who do use securitization that’s the general business model which is that people own the bottom of the capital structure and retain their own risk which is different than mortgage but that’s how auto finance companies generally works.
I don’t think that’s going to have a real impact on Wells Fargo.
Right.
And obviously from the perspective of the competitive dynamic if there were a committed play? Well to the extent that it makes harder for other people to compete and that could be there for Wells Fargo.
And then lastly just on mortgage.
John you mentioned at the beginning a lot of the headwinds that are sitting in front of us in mortgage one of the questions we get often is what about the credit box? And is there an opportunity here as home prices improve and as consumer balance sheets improve that there is some losing of standards on the credit box; maybe you could speak to that? Well I would say I don’t know that’s valued so much.
I think the bigger part of the credit box right now to open up would be a better understanding of repurchase risk.
And we’re doing a lot of work with folks and the government about that issue.
I think that influenced it more than value of homes.
Although values are important but because your credit overlays today are not related to values they’re related to in many cases repurchase risks.
Right.
And apparently the FHFA is working on crystallizing that more clearly for people I assume it’s what you’re talking about? Yes exactly.
There has to be I think it’s helpful to America to American homeowners perspective homeowners to the agencies and to originators that there is a understanding of when risk transfers.
Now if the originator does a poor job and doesn’t underwrite properly surly they should be held accountable.
But if a default happens later and due to a technical issue unrelated to the payment ability of the customer that could have been known then risk should transfer.
And whenever that period of time is I think that would be helpful.
And there are a number of Americans who want to buy home can afford to buy home who simply can get credit.
So do you think you if you had certain amount of clarity like two plus three years risk transfers assuming we did a good job as an underwriter would that have a material impact on how you are putting on your credit overlays? Well it would surely change.
It would really the change the way we look at overlays.
And I’m not saying it is could have changes to market but those every home that gets sold that satisfies a customers need not only fulfills a dream but a dollar spent on a home multiply through the economy like no other thing that we do I mean a loan to a small business we love it do a lot but a loan to homeowner is magical in that respect.
So every time we can serve another customer good things happen.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Hi can you hear me? Yes hi Mike.
Good morning.
Hey John do you still dream about checking account? And the reason I asked -- or do you dream about them as much because with the ten year where it is I mean do you still go all gung ho get as much deposits as you can get to the long-term value or do you somehow need to balance that with the need for shorter term profitability? In fact Mike I’m going to bed earlier these days so I can even dream longer about them.
I still just love checking and here is why.
But it’s a good question it’s a serious question.
First of all when an account comes like we grew net primary checking accounts 4.9% on the consumer side and 5.6% on the business side they don’t come alone they come with a relationship.
And the increases you are seeing and debit card activity and credit card we almost have 40% of our customers now carry our credit card that was 22% in 2009 and they do other things with us.
And secondly you know how expensive it is to bill liquidity for the LCR and other things; deposits are hugely important in that.
So now the love affair has not ended and we won’t be in this environment forever.
But if we can serve customers for a long time that feels like even we’d love that.
Well you mentioned that you are trying to mitigate the impact somewhat with expenses and you are actually increasing your number of branches but I guess you are reducing the square feet.
Can you give us some sense of what sort of square foot reduction you are looking for in your bank branches say over 5 or even 10 years? I’ll give you -- let me give you kind of a high level and then I’ll try to answer your question specifically.
When we -- if you go back five six years we had about 116 million or 117 million square feet and that was not only for our stores but for all of our people; today that’s in the 93 million 94 million square foot range.
We still think we have quite ways to go.
We have 6 200 banking stores and we have another couple of thousand other advisor and mortgage stores but let’s just talk about the banking stores for a second.
We try to refresh 500 600 of those every year plus we are -- we’re at pretty steady state right now.
We’re in that 6 200; we will replace two with the new one and relocate it.
When we do refresh them we will reduce in many case square footage or increase the density in the stores.
I think you and I’ve actually had discussions about which is now a three stores in the Washington area where these are I wouldn’t say stores of the future in terms of replace all of our 6 200 stores but they fit into the model where they are 1 000 to 1 200 square feet; during the day time it’s a full functioning store night time the walls folding it’s ATM best field 7X24; and so all of that matters in the mix.
And the reason we are doing that is that we have found stores are still critically important to the overall distribution community and convenience we provide customers.
So we will continue to march in this way; it doesn’t mean we’re going to replace every store sometimes we are even adding space because it’s kind of a hub and spoke.
So it’s really a collage of store designs and activities that all fit into this.
But you’re right with the idea of reducing overhead reducing space we’re providing the convenience customers want.
So over the last five years you reduced square feet by about one-fifth over the next five years how much do you think you can reduce it by? I don’t know that we have absolute goal but it will continue to go down.
There are lots of opportunities and that’s going to be critical.
And just one separate question you had a comment in the American Bank I think it was and you alluded to it today that it’s tougher for some individuals to get mortgage loans from Wells Fargo because of the risk of repurchase.
And so is this simply would you describe it as an unintended consequence of some of the regulatory actions over the past few years? I would say it’s unintended consequence of activity I don’t know but so much on the regulation side but it sure is.
It can give us a cause to pause and other originators we’re not unique in this.
What you have repurchase request that go back 8 and 10 years and in many cases are things unrelated to the credit quality or the credit payment ability of the borrower at the time of the borrowing.
We’ve put open ways on.
Now we start to reduce a little of those if we start to understand more about repurchase but it’s just it is an unintended consequence.
I don’t if it’s so much regulation as it is the activities of the GSEs.
So is this a permanent dampening for the mortgage market? No I actually think that we’re going to -- I’m hopeful we’re going to figure this out.
We’re working with actually too many groups who are saying to us this isn’t working for us.
And we’re working with other originators we’re working with the Mortgage Bankers’ Association we’re working with the head of the FHFA we’re working with the GSEs we’re working with government agencies the Fed and others because we need to figure this out.
Alright.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you Mike.
Your next question will come from the line of Bill Carcache with Nomura Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
You guys mentioned in response to an earlier question that we’re not going to be in this environment forever.
Following up on that thought I was hoping you could share your deposit growth outlook just from a high level with QE now coming to an end.
Would you expect to see a slowdown and overall industry deposit growth and the corresponding excess liquidity building? And if so does that mean that some of the excess liquidity driven NIM compression that we’ve been seeing should abate? Let me take a shot at that.
Clearly money supply and what’s happening there has influence.
But I can tell you our household growth; I think John mentioned in his numbers August is the strongest we’ve seen in years.
And because of where our store distribution and the geography of it we happen to be in higher growth states.
We happen to get a disproportionate growth of millennials and in emerging communities.
So I can’t tell you what’s going to happen at the top of the house with M1 or M2 I’d would like that but I’m confident about the way we run our retail franchise and the work we’re doing at wealth brokerage retirement.
And frankly on the corporate side in winning new customers and growing not only existing accounts but growing new accounts.
And frankly that’s one of the reason stores are important.
Our strongest growth is in areas where we have the best distribution of a store network not that it’s the only part of the distribution but it’s a critical part for acquisition.
One thing that I would add to that is that our deposits are disproportionately core deposits operational deposits relationship types of deposits and less so institutional deposits from people who are probably more inclined to immediately shipped out as Fed does whatever they’re going to do to drain reserves in the system and to tighten monitory policy if that ever happen.
And as a result we feel like we’ve got a stickier deposit base.
And all things being equal if we were it was a question of loosing deposits versus retaining them we obviously have the ability to price our deposits to compete with whatever the alternative investment opportunity or savings opportunity is for our customers because we’re sitting here with a full service capability and lots of levers in the relationships that we have.
So unlike some firms that probably have a higher percentage of institutional deposits that are seeking the last basis point of yield I don’t think I think we compare favorably in terms of deposits stickiness.
Thank you.
That’s very helpful.
I had a second question on the rate environment assuming that we do start to see the Fed funds rate increase next year.
How are you thinking about the potential for an environment where the Feds taking retire at the short end of the curve but demand for treasuries remain strong at the long end since then we end up with the flatter curve.
How are you guys positioned to perform in that kind of environment? That would actually be not that outcome at all because we would have less capital pressure on loan rates backing up on our bond portfolio and we’d be benefiting as loans and other LIBOR linked assets re-price on at the short-end.
So at least with respect to those two drivers of accounting outcomes those would be favorable.
Excellent.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Scott Siefers with Sandler O’Neill.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Hey Scott.
I was just hoping you could spend just a moment or two talking about the operating losses just given the trajectory they were up kind of substantially in the second quarter and then up another bit again; I mean I can imagine given some of the conversations we’ve had on regulatory issues so what might be driving that.
But can you spend a second maybe discussing when or how or even why those might crest and then hopefully begin to ebb back down? Well we’ve mentioned that this month’s elevated -- this quarter’s elevated level reflects primarily litigation accruals and as a result there is not much more specific color we can offer except to point you to our crystal clear disclosure in our Qs and K that describe everything that’s probable and estimable and then sum.
And it’s like anything else; it’s hard to know whether you’re cresting or not until you’re on the other side of it.
So we feel this is a somewhat higher level than it’s been recently and we think it’s well disclosed.
Okay.
All right sounds good.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I wanted to talk about two different lines of questioning more long-term in nature.
One is that as you’re pulling your short-term assets higher by about $25 billion each quarter and you mentioned that in the terms of liquidity but is also adding about 2% to your asset sensitivity every quarter.
So it just seems like you’re looking at the level of opportunities that you have in deciding to forego the yields of today and a hope for better yields tomorrow increasing asset sensitivity.
So John I just want to get your feel for how you’re kind of managing that decision you mentioned several times.
Well it’s a complex decision; it involves our asset and liability and a lot of discussion among management from time to time.
And the items that you just mentioned tend to be a little bit backward looking because you don’t know what a quarter’s loan growth is until it’s happened.
Floating rate loan growth contributes to asset sensitivity.
The governing factors probably what our capital sensitivity is to a back up in rates if we deploy into duration instruments and out of cash equivalents.
And getting that right is important so that we don’t find ourselves with higher rates that we’ve all always been waiting for and a higher level of economic activity which would probably mean more non-interest income generation and more loan growth a lot of exciting activity and at the same time be damaging our capital to the point that we couldn’t take full advantage of it.
And so that is one of those marginal drivers that probably caused us to be a little bit more in cash a little bit more asset sensitive than -- versus being more fully invested today.
But at least looking back funding sources of long term debt and sticky deposits growth with growth in short term liquid assets naturally I guess I just want to make sure we’re both agreeing that that makes you more asset sensitive each quarter.
That makes us more asset-sensitive.
That’s right.
And then just real quickly other line of thinking was John how have you increased the growth in households and businesses? I mean moving that number up a 4 percentage point on the consumer side and 2 4 percentage points on the business side long-term is a big driver.
How do you see the source of those and is that sustainable at these higher levels? Well it’s hard to know whether it’s sustainable because again that’s forward-looking.
The reason that it’s happening is a result of the quality of our people the quality of our products the execution of our business model and just consistent application of the value proposition that we’re bringing.
And it’s paying dividends like we thought that it would hope that it would.
If work goes in the future as a function of variety of inputs that are hard to know but we like our competitive standing and so to the extent that we’re growing faster than our large and regional bank competition we’re not surprised by and that’s what we expect.
And would you see that in the traditional markets or more in you’ve got the Wachovia markets and the franchise not pulled together.
So you’re really getting traction and being able to attract new customers now you got all that processed? I think they are all traditional markets now.
Yes exactly.
We don’t think… Understand I don’t know if incrementally you’re getting some new households in those newer let’s say market? We’re getting it in all of our markets.
Alright thanks.
They’re all good to us.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
Please go ahead.
LLC</strong> Good morning guys.
How are you?  Hi Nancy.
Good morning.
LLC</strong> This is sort of an overarching question John and John that goes to a lot of the stuff we’re hearing not only on your call but on the JP Morgan Chase call about these sort of continuing calls for increased capital all these other new requirements that are being put on the industry to which there is seemingly no end.
And there is -- I’m sure you’ve read this in the press as well this beginning characterization of the banking industry as the new electric utility.
Are the regulators trying to enforce so much conformity on the industry that they are going to do away with the dynamism and the willingness of the banking industry? John could you just give us either John just give us some perspective on that and where you think that indeed is happening? Well there is no question that they can stay.
The regulatory the global regulatory community keeps apparently keeps adding on to both capital and liquidity requirements that are going to have the combined effect of changing business models increasing operating costs or financing costs and then applying that to an increased denominator of equity in the ROE calculation.
To an industry that broadly speaking other than Wells Fargo and perhaps some regional banks has not been over achieving in returns over the last couple of years.
So if you roll the tape forward I assume that that gets mathematically worse before it gets betters unless a higher rate environment a higher growth environment a real optimization on the part of the most impact banks in terms of changing their business model allows them to perform at a higher level.
So I think it is it’s a consequence of what you’re describing it is happening and we can’t talk or anybody else is going to deal with it.
But we’ve as I mentioned earlier we’re proud to have to continue to generate a top of the peer group type of returns in spite of the amount of capital that we’re carrying and the ample liquidity that we’re carrying too.
Nancy it’s an interesting question and there is no question that there has been increases some of them are settled and different issues be combining constraints and different ways.
Of our business 97% of our revenues come from the U.S.
We love our international business but we’re dominant -- our dominant part of our business is here that makes it a bit easier for us and the challenge and I think the opportunity for leadership is to make sure that we do both we meet or exceed the requirements on the capital liquidity and those side and also we continue to invest in things that attract team members to us attract customers to us be dynamic in the marketplace differentiating.
And we’re so embedded in the real economy that the things we’re doing continue to allow us to grow that business.
So we can never predict the future but that’s a challenge for us as leaders to do both.
LLC</strong> John do you see yourself John Stumpf do you see yourself as having to change your plans for growth either businesses that you would like to be in? Do you see that you might have to divest any of your present businesses? Should this sort of regulatory minds that continue and intensify? At this point in time the answer is no because again virtually everything we do here starts with a customer.
And we look at relationship value and pricing and different businesses have different returns and so forth.
And we’re always thinking about adjusting like few -- last quarter we sold smaller insurance offices doesn’t mean we don’t like interest business we just -- but there is always things that are going on.
But there is nothing in anything I see today that would say I can’t be in this business or we can’t be in that business; it relates to customers.
LLC</strong> Okay all right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our final question will come from the line of Kevin Barker with Compass Point.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I noticed that you had quite a bit of increasing construction loans quarter-over-quarter and they’re basically staying flat for several years.
Is there something in particular that’s causing the development and expansion of construction loans or is that something that you’re looking at like an initiative going forward?  We’re the largest commercial real estate lender in the country.
And as I’ve said in some place recently you fly around; go in any city looks like a crane convention going on.
I mean there is a lot of commercial activity going on and we serve that community and that sector of the economy.
There is also housing is better than it has been in the past.
So I think it reflects more the natural activity happening in the marketplace as opposed to us changing our strategy somehow.
Alright.
And then in regards to student loan business are you still planning on selling the thought portfolio by year end or can you talk about the overall investor appetite for these loans? And then separately on the private side I know this is a peak lending quarter for student loans but could you provide any color around the demand trend from students given the overall level of student out there? Well with respect to the first part of your question we still do intend to sell those loans can’t really comment on the specific to sales moving forward progressing as expected.
And what I can tell you is like any other fixed income asset category in this highly liquid environment there is plenty of interest.
But in terms of whether it happens in the fourth quarter or later I don’t want to be too specific.
We remain very committed to private student lending and of course our student lending team now will be even more focused on our private business once we’ve sold the self loans.
And with respect to whether demand after accounting for seasonality as you mentioned has changed or not changed.
We are in a point in time when a very high number of people are already student borrowers and but it’s still one of the three or four most important things that are customers do they buy a home they buy a car they finance their education and they save for retirement and we expect that to continue.
Okay.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Okay.
I think we’re done with the call now.
I want to first of all thank all of you for jointing us and thank our 265 000 team members across our company for an outstanding quarter.
If you look at the drivers of long-term growth loans deposits the capital the liquidity we have the household growth it sure makes us optimistic about the future.
We operate within our ROA ROE and efficiency ratio targets that we had provided a couple of years ago.
And we’re really proud that we return more capital to you our owners.
So we’re well positioned for the future and we’ll see you in 90 days.
Thank you very much everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Rowe you may begin your conference.
Thank you Regina and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today where our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf; and our CFO John Shrewsberry will discuss fourth quarter results and answer your questions.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that our fourth quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at wellsfargo.com.
I’d also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today’s call that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.
Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can also be found in our SEC filings in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website.
I will now turn our call over to our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning and Happy New Year to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
We just completed another outstanding year at Wells Fargo.
We generated record earnings produced strong deposit and loan growth grew the number of customers we serve improved credit quality enhanced our strong risk management practices strengthened our capital and liquidity levels and rewarded our shareholders by increasing our dividend and buying back more shares.
Our achievements during 2014 demonstrated the benefit of our diversified business model and our continued focus on the real economy.
Let me share just some of our accomplishments during the past year.
We generated earnings of $23 billion and earnings per share of $4.10 both up 5% from the prior year.
We grew both revenue and pretax pre-provision profit.
We had strong broad-based loan growth.
Our core loan portfolio increased by $60 billion or 8%.
Our deposit franchise continue to generate strong consumer and balanced growth with total deposit up $89 billion or 8% and we grew the number of primary consumer checking customers by 5.2%.
Our credit performance continue to be very strong with net charge-off down $1.6 billion and our net charge-off ratio declining to just 35 basis points for the year.
Our capital levels increased even as we returned more capital to shareholders.
We returned $12.5 billion to our stockholders through dividends and net share repurchases up 74% from a year ago.
While we serve our customers throughout the world 97% of our revenue comes from the United States and there had been many signs of strength in the U.S.
economy.
GDP growth accelerated during 2014 and may be even stronger in 2015.
Last year was the strongest year of job growth in 15 years and December was the 50th consecutive month of job creation unprecedented in U.S.
history.
Consumer confidence is at its highest level since the peak of the last economic expansion.
Home ownership remains an aspiration for most Americans and recent development such as the announced reduction in FHA premiums GSE clarification on repurchase rules and changes in GSE lending guidelines should provide some benefit to the housing market where affordability remains attractive.
While lower oil prices have created volatility in the financial markets America as a whole is a net consumer of energy and American households will benefit from the decline in energy prices which is positive for the U.S.
economy.
I believe the improvement in the economy the strength of our balance sheet the diversity of our businesses and the continued commitment of our team members to meet our customer's financial needs will provide Wells Fargo with many opportunities in the year ahead.
John Shrewsberry our Chief Financial Officer will now provide more details on our fourth quarter results.
John? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
My comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly supplements starting on Page two.
John and I will then answer your questions.
Wells Fargo had another strong quarter earning $5.7 billion and $1.02 in EPS in the fourth quarter.
Our results included continued strong loan and deposit growth that was diversified across our businesses and credit quality continued to reflect the benefit of our ongoing risk discipline.
Our capital levels remained strong even as we returned $3.9 billion to shareholders in the fourth quarter through common stock dividends and net share repurchases.
Slide three highlights our strong full year results that John discussed at the beginning of the call including increased revenue and pretax pre-provision profit strong loan and deposit growth higher earnings and increasing our net payout ratio to 57%.
Page four highlights our revenue diversification and the balance between spread and fee income in the fourth quarter.
The benefit of our diversified business model is that we have over 90 businesses that performed differently based on interest rates in the economic environment.
While the balance between spread and fee income has remained consistent over time the drivers of fee income have varied.
For example over the past five years mortgage banking as a share of total fee income has been its highest 28% but because of the decline in mortgage refinancing activity mortgage banking fees have declined as expected and represented 15% of fee income in the fourth quarter.
However other businesses have benefitted from current market conditions our trust in investment fees have steadily increased over the past five years and we're 36% of fee income in the fourth quarter.
These examples demonstrate the benefit of our diversification and how our business mix enables us to focus on meeting our customer's financial needs while retaining our risk discipline.
Let me highlight some key drivers of our fourth quarter results from a balance sheet and income statement perspective starting on Page five.
I'll discuss the drivers of our strong loan and deposit growth later in the call.
Short-term investments in fed funds sold declined $3.5 billion from the third quarter due to the deployment of liquidity into loans and investment securities.
This was the first time since the fourth quarter of 2011 that we've had a linked quarter decline.
Investment securities increased $24 billion from the third quarter due to $35 billion of purchases partially offset by run-off and maturities.
The majority of our purchases were U.S.
treasury and federal agency securities.
Turning to the income statement on Page six revenue grew $230 million during the quarter with growth in net interest income and stable non-interest income.
Expenses increased in the quarter reflecting higher personnel cost continued investments in our businesses and risk related initiatives and some typically higher fourth quarter expenses.
Our results in the quarter also reflected lower income tax expense which was down $123 million.
As shown on Page seven we continue to have strong broad-based loan growth in the fourth quarter our 14th consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth.
The core loan portfolio grew by $60.4 billion or 8% from a year ago and was up $26 billion or 13% annualized from the third quarter.
Loan growth in the fourth quarter included $6.5 billion from financing related to the sale of our government guaranteed student loans as well as the Dillard’s credit card portfolio acquisition.
Our liquidating portfolio decreased $20.1 billion from a year ago.
It is now only 7% of our total loans down from 22% at the end of 2008.
Total average loan yields remain fairly stable declining just two basis points from the third quarter.
On Page eight we highlight our loan portfolio to have strong year-over-year growth.
C&amp;I loans were up $36.4 billion or 15% from a year ago with broad based growth that I’ll highlight on the next page.
Core one-to-four family first mortgage loans grew $14.4 billion or 7% from a year ago reflecting continued growth in high quality conforming mortgages pardon me non-conforming mortgages primarily jumbo loans.
The credit quality of our core mortgage portfolio was outstanding with only six basis points of annualized credit loss in the fourth quarter.
Auto loans were up $4.9 billion or 10% from last year.
While we continued to benefit from the strong auto market new originations were down from a year ago reflecting our continued risk and pricing discipline in a competitive market.
Credit card balances were up $4.2 million or 16% from a year ago benefiting from a combination of organic account and loan growth as well as the benefit of the Dillard's portfolio acquisition.
Slide Nine demonstrates the diversity of businesses that contributed to the growth in C&amp;I loans.
Let me highlight just a few.
Asset-backed finance increased $16.7 billion which included $6.5 billion from financing related to a government guaranteed student loan sale.
Corporate banking grew $5.8 billion driven by new customer growth and higher utilization rates from existing customers.
And capital finance grew $3.8 billion reflecting new customer growth.
As you can see on Page 10 we had over $1.1 trillion of average deposits in the fourth quarter up $22.7 billion or 8% annualized from the third quarter.
Our average deposit cost declined one basis point to nine basis points in the fourth quarter.
Our strong growth in checking customers continued in the fourth quarter with primary consumer checking customers growing 5.2% from a year ago and primary small business and business banking checking customers increasing 5.4%.
Our success reflected the advantages Wells Fargo offers including broad based and industry-leading distribution channels enhanced product offerings that make it easier for customers to do more business with us and improved customer retention.
We continue to grow net interest income on a tax equivalent basis up $255 million from the third quarter reflecting strong growth in average earning assets up $43.5 billion or 3%.
The net interest margin declined two basis point from the third quarter due to strong deposit growth which resulted in higher average balances of cash and short term investments and from actions we took in the third quarter which resulted in higher average balances and liquidity-related funding.
The impact of all other balance sheet growth and reprising benefit in the margin by three basis point due to a larger investment portfolio and stronger loan originations increased interest income from variable sources benefited the margin by one basis point.
Our balance sheet remains asset sensitive so we’re well positioned to benefit from higher rates but as we’ve demonstrated by growing net interest income throughout the year we're not relying on rates to increase to generate growth.
Of course the first quarter will be impacted by two fewer days in the quarter.
Total non-interest income was stable from third quarter as higher trust and investment fees card fees commercial real estate brokerage commissions and a $217 million gain on the sale of government guaranteed student loans was offset by a $396 million decline in market sensitive revenue driven by lower equity gains and lower mortgage banking revenue and deposit service charges.
The decline in deposit service charges in the fourth quarter was primarily due to lower overdraft related fess resulting from changes we implemented in early October designed to provide customers with more real-time information to manage their deposit accounts and avoid overdrafts.
Mortgage banking revenue declined $118 million from the third quarter.
As expected mortgage origination income was down from the last quarter reflecting reduced volume from the seasonally lower purchase market.
The decline in mortgage rates during the quarter resulted in refinancing volume increasing to 40% of originations up from 30% last quarter.
While it's still early the continued declining rates could benefit origination volumes from the first quarter and we currently expect volumes to be relatively consistent with fourth quarter levels despite the fact that the first quarter usually reflects its lower purchase market.
Our gain on sale margin was consistent with last quarter and is expected to remain within the range we’ve seen over the past four quarters.
Servicing income increased modestly from third quarter reflecting lower unreimbursed direct servicing cost partially offset by lower net head results.
Our total trust and investment fees were up $3.7 billion in the fourth quarter which was a record high and increased to $151 million from third quarter driven by higher investment banking activity.
Our expenses continue to reflect our investments in our businesses including risk related initiatives.
As shown on Page 13 expenses were up $399 million from third quarter.
There were a number of factors driving this increase.
Personal expenses increase $272 million reflecting higher deferred comp expense which is offsetting revenue higher revenue based incentive compensation and higher healthcare costs.
A number of our expenses are typically higher in the fourth quarter.
Equipment expense was up $124 million primarily due to annual software license renewals.
Outside professional services increased $116 million which included higher project related spending on business investments as well as risk related initiatives.
Advertising expenses were also elevated up $42 million from third quarter.
While these typically higher expenses should be lower next quarter we will have seasonally higher personnel expenses in the first quarter reflecting incentive compensation and employee benefits expense.
Our expenses will also reflect our continued investments in our infrastructure -- our risk infrastructure including hiring new team members and ongoing project spending.
Our efficiency ratio is 58.1% for full year 2014 and we expect the efficiency ratio for full year 2015 to remain within our target range of 55% to 59%even if the upper end of our target range we're operating more efficiently than many of our peers.
Turning to our business segments starting on Page 14 community banking earned $3.4 billion in the fourth quarter up 7% from a year ago and down 1% from the third quarter.
I've already highlighted the strong growth in primary checking customers.
We've also been successfully adding retail bank households.
Through November our year-to-date household growth rate was the highest since 2010.
Meeting the financial needs of these new households will help drive growth across our diversified product line.
Our debit and credit card businesses are examples of where we've had success and yet still have opportunities for continued growth.
Debit card purchase volume was up 8% from a year ago driven by primary checking customer growth and increased usage from our existing customers.
Our credit card penetration rate increased to 42% up from 37% a year ago.
Credit card purchase volume grew 17% from a year ago reflecting account growth and increased usage among our existing customers.
Wholesale banking earned $2 billion in the fourth quarter down 7% from a year ago and up 3% from the third quarter.
Loan growth continued to be strong with average loans up $32.2 billion or 11% from a year ago with growth across many businesses as I highlighted earlier.
Credit quality remained outstanding with eight consecutive quarters of net recoveries.
Deposit growth was also strong with average core deposits up $33.9 billion or 13% from a year ago.
Results also benefited from strong investments banking fees up 10% from a year ago driven by higher loan syndication fees high yield debt origination fees and equity underwriting.
Treasury management revenue increased 11% from a year ago benefiting from record product sales in 2014 and re-pricing.
Wealth brokerage and retirement earned $514 million in the fourth quarter up 5% from a year ago and down at 7% from the third quarter.
Revenue grew 6% from a year ago with growth in both net interest income and non-interest income.
The growth in fee income was driven by a 12% increase in asset-based fees as we continue to execute on our strategic initiative of focusing on plan-based relationships resulting in higher recurring revenue.
Our brokerage advisory assets grew to $423 billion up $48 million dollars or 13% from a year ago primarily due to positive net flows.
Loan growth for WBR remained strong up 13% from a year ago the sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year growth.
This growth was primarily driven by an increase in high quality non-confirming mortgage loans.
Turning to Page 17 credit quality in the fourth quarter remained strong with a net charge-off ratio of 34 basis points of average loans.
The $67 million increase in net charge-offs from the third quarter was primarily driven by lower recoveries down $54 million which we would expect at this stage with the credit cycle.
Nonperforming assets have declined for nine consecutive quarters and were down $739 million from the third quarter.
Nonaccrual loans declined $517 million and foreclosed assets declined to $222 million.
The reserve release was $250 million in the fourth quarter down $50 million from third quarter and down $350 million from a year ago.
Our capital levels remained strong with our estimated common equity Tier 1 ratio under Basel III using the advanced approach full phased on at 10.44% in the fourth quarter.
Our ratio declined slightly from the third quarter reflecting an increase in the risk weighted assets primarily from strong loan growth in the quarter.
We stated that our long term target is 10% which includes a buffer over required minimums.
Since we've achieved our targeted level our capital ratios may fluctuate from quarter to quarter reflecting changes in asset levels or composition or changes in OCI impacted by market volatility.
These potential changes are why we maintain a buffer.
As shown on Slide 19 we returned $3.9 billion to shareholders in the fourth quarter.
Our common shares outstanding declined by 45 million shares in the fourth quarter reflecting 62 million shares purchased during the quarter.
In addition we entered into a $750 million forward repurchase contracts that's expected to settle in the first quarter for approximately 14 million shares.
As a reminder our share issuance is usually higher in the first half of the year given the timing of certain employee benefit plan issuances.
So in summary our results in 2014 and for the fourth quarter reflected the benefit of our diversified business model with strong growth in loans and deposits.
Our loan portfolio is well diversified and charge-offs were near historic lows.
We increased the amount of our capital and liquidity and returned $12.5 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase.
Our net payout ratio was 57% for the year within our targeted range of 55% to 75%.
We believe we're well positioned to benefit from an improving economy and increased customer base.
Our diverse product line and our continued risk discipline.
Our diversified business model has performed well across a variety of economic and interest rate environments and I am optimistic that it will continue to produce opportunities for our customers our team members and our shareholders in the year ahead.
We'll now be happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Joe Morford of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Hey morning.
I just wondered if you could speak to how we should think about weighing the positive and negative effects of the sharp drop in energy prices on the bank while it should help out the consumer businesses is it enough to offset any potential credit issues or probably slow down in loan growth and investment banking activity? Well as I mentioned in my comments Joe since the United States is a net consumer net importer of oil we think it's a positive for the U.S.
economy.
Clearly that's on average because there is going to be some states that are impacted.
Some customers who are going to be impacted and some businesses that's going to be impacted but we serve 70 million customers.
Virtually all of them know how to fill the gas tank and go to a gas pump and that's a real benefit.
So we think net net it's an opportunity.
Surely there are offsets like we said but even within the oil and gas business and John mentioned we are participant there.
It's about 2% of our loans.
There is still a lot of opportunity for consolidation there and we'll participate in that with our customers.
We're looking at our portfolio.
We analyze that.
We've been through that over the past but net net we think it's a positive.
Okay.
Great I guess somewhat related to that with the teams recently the expectation is now that higher rates are getting pushed out.
We could be lower for longer which theoretically could weigh on margins.
Do you expect to be able to offset that with better growth in the business amidst the stronger economies you talk about or do you see any need to take a harder look at expenses and what other levers might you have to pull there? We're always taking a hard look at expenses.
So there is nothing incremental that we would plan on doing there but continuing to be as vigilant as we have.
We've been operating at a pretty strong level in a zero interest rate environment for a very long time and while because of the way our balance sheet is positioned it would probably be -- there is upside when short term rates move and if that happen later then that upside might be realized later.
We're continuing to position ourselves to compete and to perform in this interest rate environment and so loan growth deposit growth redeploying excess liquidity into earning assets as I said being vigilant on expense all of those things contribute to the performance that we've had and that we're anticipating continuing to have until that time that rates begin to move.
Okay.
Thanks so much for the thoughts.
Thanks Joe.
Your next question will come from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi John.
I was wondering John on just a question on credit and provision asset quality clearly remains excellent and I wasn’t sure if you mentioned future reserve releases John but with such strong loan growth and credit metrics now looking stable should we expect the reserve releases to taper off and might you need to start adding to reserves at some point if loan growth continues at this kind of pace? I think the short answer is yes.
if we have robust loan growth going forward all things being equal even that would contribute to the need for some amount of incremental provisioning.
So it's going to be a function of the amount of loan growth the mix of loan growth the quality of the portfolio overall and general economic conditions.
One thing I would add to Joe's first question also is there is no specific provisioning action in the fourth quarter for what's going on in the energy world.
There is nothing anticipated nothing necessary at the moment but there is nothing in that quarter either.
Okay.
Did you make a comment about reserve releases John and if you achieved kind of -- in the past couple of quarters you said reserve releases could continue.
I was wondering if that changed a little bit now with credit bottoming in if I missed out.
With the size of the portfolio the size of the allowance and the amount of the fourth quarter's release the $250 million it's close to call.
We've said in the recent past to expect them to taper.
Now for the reasons that you mentioned and I described there could be future releases -- there could be future net provisioning.
So we're at that point in the cycle I think.
Okay.
Got it and then in terms of just the net interest income the puts and takes did you say how big the Dillard’s portfolio was or could you tell us? We can't because of the nature of the contract we have with our customers.
You can see the amount of loan growth in the credit card portfolio from quarter to quarter and that's a combination of the organic growth in the Dillard’s portfolio.
Okay.
And then any clarity you can offer on what opened up in terms of opportunity to deploy the liquidity this quarter anything driving that in particular? Well some clarity around our liquidity framework clarity around -- further clarity around LCR further clarity on what kind of cash versus other HQLA we would need to have.
I think that emboldened us a little bit in terms of finding an entry point but as we've said these are difficult times for finding attractive entry points into fixed income markets when we're thinking about making that switch.
And John also we had as you know continued very strong deposit growth.
Got it.
Okay.
Great.
And just one last quick thing on TLAC John rules on finalized we do have a proposal how do you feel on that and would you have to do some gradual preparing for that as we go forward? Sure well just depending on where the ultimate rule comes out versus the range that's been published at the low end of the range we've got less to do and at the high end of the range we would have more to do.
There is still a lot to know and there is some wood to chop in the regulatory realm to get to the final rule where on the record is pointing out that we really don't -- the industry doesn’t understand the need for the magnitude of the total buffer that's been to our loss absorbing capacity that's been talked about here.
We certainly find that it lands a little bit harder on people who seem to have less risky business models.
Those of us who are deposit funded with a little bit more straightforward deposit taking and lending type of activity.
We would like some clarity on why that makes sense but however it lands within the range that's been published the approach for Wells Fargo is going to be to add more termed at the holding company level and that will have a -- that will have a P&amp;L consequence that we have to navigate through and it will be substantially more manageable at the lower end of the range and somewhat more expensive at the higher end of the range.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question will come from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I appreciate the color that you have given us so far on what you expect from mortgage originations in the first quarter but as we think about the full year and think about your comments earlier high consumer confidence accelerating GDP in the context of potentially lower long rate for longer.
Is it possible that from an industry level the origination growth for this year could surpass the current MBA forecast of 6%.
Yes.
The numbers last time that I've seen from them is $1.1 trillion to $1.2 trillion.
Yes it could be higher based on those things.
As I mentioned in my comments with what was done recently in FHA and some of the things that the GSEs are doing and if rates stay low or are favorable surely we could see more activity and you could see actually more activity on both the refinance side and the purchased-money side.
We'll just have to see how that goes but -- and I don't think there has been any reduction or any update on those numbers from the MBA but it could the higher end of that range.
Got it.
And on the flip side to that you mentioned that you did get more clarity on also your HQLA with regards to being more aggressive on liquidity deployment but John you've mentioned several times that absolute level of rates have dictated your cash deployment or liquidity deployment strategy.
As we look at into 2015 was the clarity around the rules enough to make you a little bit more aggressive about deploying your liquidity into earning assets or is it going to continue to be largely rate dependent? Oh it's a good question.
It's substantially rate dependent at this point and loan growth dependent as well because that's the first call in all of our available liquidity is making loans to customers.
But if we believe that we're in a lower for longer long term rate scenario separate that from policy rates for a moment but just thinking about the tenure and mortgage rates etcetera at the margin that probably emboldens us a little bit additionally to convert what's cash today into duration over the course of the year.
And actually we still have tens of billions available.
So there's just a lot of liquidity on the sheet.
Understood and just a quick follow-up we appreciate the color that you gave in terms of the impact of energy as there have been a lot of questions from investors in terms of what it would take for banks to adjust its qualitative reserve to reflect lower energy prices? I was just wondering if that's how Wells Fargo does it or do you really look at the reserve at least in terms of your energy and commercial exposure on a name by name loan by loan basis? So in the case of commercial and corporate loans it's absolutely that some of the parts have a name by name basis and the risk rating on each loan.
We have hundreds of customers in the energy business.
They are in the E&amp;P or upstream part of the market.
There are midstream companies.
There are services companies.
We have the largest team in this area very long tenure.
Have been through several cycles and we're working with -- we're building customer by customer and working through each situation to figure out what this job means to them based on their leverage based on their hedging profile based on their assets based on their management capability and that will lead to risk rating changes on a loan by loan basis or a name by name basis as time unfold and it's that activity that would lead to changes in our reserving posture for the portfolio.
And we don't want to minimize this but this is nature of that business.
If you go back just six years we've had $30 a barrel oil and we've had $140 a barrel oil.
We've seen gas for example natural gas go from $6 $7 Mcf to $2 and some change today and that's just part of that business.
On the E&amp;P side of that portfolio those tend to be reserve based loans asset based loans with a very interactive approach between the bank and the borrower in terms of determining the value of the collateral and then re-margining the loan down to reflect changes in the value of the collateral and of course that's at our discretion.
We have our own engineers and we're very engaged in that process.
So all of that -- all of that ties into what the future reserving needs requirements are for that portfolio and as I said nothing obviously has revealed itself yet and there is nothing in the fourth quarter specifically for that.
Got it.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Sure.
Your next question will come from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
Hi Ken.
A couple of questions on the fee side John you had mentioned some of the tweaks you made in October on the service charges side so I am wondering if you can help us understand what types of changes those were? And then how you're looking at your product set with regards to either payday advance and whatever pending rules we could still get at some point next year on overdrafts and if that would continue to have an impact on your deposit fees? So what happened in October wasn’t a change in the product or what we charged for and rather we un-ruled some incremental technology that allows our customers to have more real time information to manage their own baking affairs and they've been using that information and successfully reducing the amount of over-drafting method and which had an impact on our revenue.
We think it's very customer friendly and it's good for all of us.
That's distinct from any pricing approach or a product approach that we'll have.
With respect to -- go ahead.
Okay.
No go ahead.
You asked about short term or payday type lending I think it's clear that during 2014 we discontinued a product that we used to offer that was a direct deposit advance product that allowed people to borrow on a short term unsecured basis with their next direct deposit pay check as security for a source of repayment for the loan and there was some regulatory urging around that.
I think most of the discussion around those types of products is now frankly outside the banking system because it's private financed companies who are providing that and that's how it seems to be doing that with from a regulatory perspective.
I would also tell you that the discontinued product is out of the run rate at this point.
So the impact has been fully realized.
And then overdrafts? Hard to say much more about it other its -- we're not in the process of re-pricing or rethinking the product capability.
The results that you'll see in our numbers are a reflection of the activity and behavior of our customers as they manage their own baking affairs.
Okay.
Another question I had was just on the kind of market related revenues.
They've been trending a little bit lower if I combine trading activities securities gains equity investment gains and that's even with the student loan gain in that 354 number.
Should we generically expect that you'll still be able to generate this type of market related revenue or is it more likely that we can trend down over time? So there is lot of moving parts there and I would look at a multi quarter average to think about how to model it.
On the trading side their customer accommodation customer facing trading revenue that we make which is a pretty modest part of Wells Fargo revenue profile but will probably ebb and flow along the lines of what you're seeing in the industry just at a more modest level.
That also -- the trading line also includes the impact of our deferred comp hedging programs.
So it's a little noisy given the magnitude of that versus the magnitude of our trading businesses but those will be with based on industry factors and the deferred comp programs will be more revenue and more expense in an up market and less revenue and less expense in a down market generally speaking.
On the other elements we've got gains from equity securities gains from debt securities and in the equity space you've seen some of the businesses that we've been involved in that frankly are -- that continue to be -- are sources of revenue that we would anticipate seeing if market conditions stay the same as they are today.
So I wouldn’t model that down too heavily.
And on the debt side given the levels of rates that we're at and in some markets the levels of spreads that we're at there are some debt securities which it makes sense for us to sell and monetize from time to time just because their market value substantially exceeds what we can imagine as their intrinsic or certainly their carrying value.
So there will be pops in there from time to time as well.
And it's some of those things that gets to that collection that you described.
Okay.
And last one maybe you can just talk a little about the momentum in the trust business and what type of outlook you see just through asset gathering and after a really strong year and in that part of the business.
Do you see -- how is the pipeline for asset growth looking? We're very happy and pleased with the progress we've made in that area.
One of the biggest opportunities we have is relationship between David Carroll's Wealth Brokerage and Retirement Group and Carrie Tolstedt's Community Banking Group.
We have as many assets away from customers who call us their bank as we do under management right now.
So the relationship and the working date of their to bring those assets home if you will has been a big opportunity for us and -- but I still view this.
Of all the opportunities we have in the company with all of our businesses probably that is our biggest opportunity to jump a curve or to even do -- to show some incremental growth above what you would see in other more mature businesses.
So a lot of opportunity there; pleased with where we are lot more to do.
Thanks guys.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Paul Miller with FBR.
Please go ahead.
Yes thank you very much and there has been a lot of news thrown out today but on your -- if you mentioned this in the prepared marks I apologize but your C&amp;I loans jumped up.
Is that where the Ginnie Mae financing came through on your balance sheet? No that's not that Paul.
So that's just pure… The biggest thing to call out is the student loan financing that we did.
If you saw the portfolio of student loans and we provided some financing to the company who bought those loans and so if one items stands out in the quarter as outsized it would be that but those are all commercial loans.
Yes and is there any particular industry that are doing well? Is it just across the Board and across geographic that this line item picked up? Because this is one of the line items we've been waiting to see pick up in general amongst the bigger ranks.
Very broad based.
Very broad.
And you're not saying because the questions that I get is that everybody is concerned about the energy credits but you're just not seeing and I know you made some opening comments about that but you're just not seeing anything on the negative side on energy credits at this point.
Well this drop in crude is very recent and the companies are taking the appropriate evasive actions to preserve cash to de-lever to reduce their expense base etcetera but it hasn’t worked its way into loan quality.
Now loan demand certainly will be down in that area I assume but in the fourth quarter you can see what the change in growth is out there and net outstandings was which more than makes up for whatever reduced demand there is in the energy space.
Okay guys.
Thank you very much.
Your next question will come from the line of Bill Carcache with Nomura Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I had a question on your credit card growth strategy.
I think most would agree that credit card assets yields have held up quite well in this slow rate environment relative to other asset classes.
Would you consider competing more aggressively on rates in an effort to growth your share of outstanding balances particularly since the high return business where you arguably have room to give up a bit on pricing while still generating returns that are attractive relative to other lower return over yielding asset classes? Well let me say it this way.
First of all we love the card business especially for our community bank customers and we've grown from the low to mid 20s penetration to now to 42% of our customers carry our credit card.
And we like that business a whole lot not only from the balances we get but to be relevant to our customers as far as handling their payments providing them services that are even around payments and so forth for them.
We want to provide great value.
Pricing sure is part of that.
You've seen recently where we've partnered with American Express.
We do a ton of business with Visa on the higher end higher value cards.
So this is really a strategy about getting more cards top of wallet with our customers and pricing rewards the whole value of proposition is part of that.
I wouldn’t say it's just any one thing around price per se but it around value.
Great.
Thank you.
A separate question if I may on municipal deposits can you talk about how significant municipal deposits are to Wells? Are you deemphasizing them given their relative unfriendly LCR treatment and to what extent do you see future revenue opportunity for holding them? We have a -- we have a very big municipal business and deposits are certainly part of that.
It's a service that we provide to the tax exempt issuing community and by municipal it's all forms of state and local and country government and other non-profit types of customers.
The unfriendly LCR treatment came from the fact that municipal deposits tend to be collateralized by us so that their municipal depositor is safer in the event of a problem with their bank and that wasn’t being taken into account in the original approach to LCR.
We think we've gotten that favorable outcome there so that they're now LCR friendly.
Still very competitive.
We still like those deposits.
We still very much enjoy those relationships because there is a lot of banking service that we provide to those types of clients but they don't have the LCR problem that they might have seemed to have in pre-clarification that came out in the third or fourth quarter.
Okay.
So it was my understanding that for the purposes of the LCR calculation in the numerator the high quality liquid assets would not be able to include the collateral associated with the deposits and then had to outflow in the denominator on day one.
Is that not the case anymore? I don't think that you have it right.
I think that it works fine.
Incidentally there were two issues that people were trying to address in tweaks to LCR relating to munis.
The other one was whether high quality muni bonds would be considered HQLA on the asset side and I don't think that there has been a resolution there and there are a number of our customer -- our clients who issue high quality muni bonds to take exception of that and we will see where that goes.
But on the deposit side I think we've cracked the code.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I had a question about the efficiency ratio.
First what were the drivers in higher revenue driven compensation and deferred comp especially with lower originations and software trading results? And then the following question to that is are you still at the upper end of your efficiency target what can you do to get at least back towards the middle end? Well so the drivers of the revenue oriented portion of increased compensation included a handful of businesses.
I would say investment banking was one of them where we were $150 million up in the quarter and so some portion of the elevated expense is attributable to that but it comes from a few others as well.
And again to those businesses that performed better in the fourth quarter so it could be with 90 different businesses it can be a little here a little there.
That was part of it.
So we find ourselves in the high 58% or now 59% and with a lot of emphasis on trying to be as efficient as we can and how we spend our money every day.
There are no guarantees that we're moving toward the middle of the lower end of the range in this interest rate environment and as we go through a full year.
While we're tackling the things that we need to tackle we spend a lot of money on risk management compliance related initiatives other things that have a regulatory origin and some of that is semi permanent might be around for several quarters and some of it is going to around the run rate for a while.
If rates begin to move up that probably moves us down in the range but it's frankly a 59% which is the high end of our range where we can tolerate that.
We've been performing very well.
Mike you're hitting one of the important issues for us as.
As John mentioned we take this seriously.
We're looking for all those opportunities to eliminate expenses where customers don't find value and it's an ongoing continuous process for us reducing square footage.
It's one of those looking hard at the kind of money we spend that is not revenue producing if you will but also making sure that we take a look at the long term.
So we continue to invest in things like late last year Apple Pay and other things that we do to provide convenience for our customers.
So it's always a don't waste but also we take a long term view but this continues to be a big focus for us.
Well correct me if I am wrong.
You have a 55% to 59% efficiency target range and what I am hearing now is well if the rate environment we might be at 59% whereas I wasn’t sure if I heard that same message before or saying well unless rates go up we won't get to the middle part of the range and you were a little bit lower before.
So am I hearing the message wrong or is it simply that you've done what you could for so long with the low rate environment and you can't do a whole lot more or what is it that leads you to say well 59% okay.
Well I think when we had the range we knew that we would surely we would love to be at 55% but we also recognized that that's how we gave a range.
These were -- think of as guardrails and we're spending more in cyber today.
We're spending more on all things risk.
On the other hand we've not yet pulled out all of our expenses around loss mitigation.
We continue to make investments in distribution.
So I guess a range is a range and I can't guarantee with the lower end but if we were at the high end that's also acceptable.
In our mind if we're making the right investments in the right things and eliminating expenses where we think they can be eliminated.
So that's how we feel about it.
And then last follow-up the cyber expenses or the all things risk expenses have these ticked up some or is this kind of what you had expected? They've ticked up in the terms of we continue to make more investments there and we're starting to get the annualization of expenses we made last year.
And we'll get more efficient in that over time but we're spending -- we're spending the money we think we need to spend.
And sometimes that's hiring consultants and then over time you can convert whatever they're doing to team members which tends to be more efficient you're not as efficient in every process the minute you adopted it or employ it but more money has been spent there.
All there.
Thank you.
Thank you Mike.
Your next question will come from the line of Matt O’Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
If I could follow-up on the net interest margin was down just two basis points which I think was very good in this kind of environment.
As I look at some of the underlying detail on the yields of the securities and some of the loan yields.
I guess I don't totally understand how they've been so stable and wondering if there is anything you can add on maybe first the securities you've been growing it and the yields have been remarkably resilient.
It's just math.
What we've been growing hasn’t been that extraordinary in terms of its incremental contribution to the way that it average because the denominators is big as it is.
If we continue to deploy as I know you know if we continue deploying in this environment ultimately it will start to skew down the way it averaged return and also we've been tending to invest in treasury and agency securities and just from a credit quality point of view that's going to bring down returns setting aside the historical book yields versus current book yields and the shape of the current when the investments were made.
If we've got corporates and munis and some other things in the starting portfolio if we're just adding U.S.
treasuries it's going to bring things down but it just hasn’t revealed itself yet because the numbers haven’t been big enough yet.
Okay.
And then on the loan yields I guess they've been surprisingly resilient as well.
Do you feel like -- I know it's a blend of eight or ten categories the way you disclose it but do you feel like generally speaking loan yields have stabilized and I am looking at the C&amp;I that was actually up a couple bips but really up and down the portfolio.
It feels like there has been pretty good stability the last three or four quarters.
I think that's right.
We're in fiercely competitive markets.
Not every bit of composition is in the last phase.
It's point of spread on a loan.
Sometimes it's in the structure of a loan and of course there are places we'll back away from when that happens but it is competitive but it hasn’t all shown up in price.
Okay.
And then I mean I just -- I guess putting it all together as you think about the next margin percent going forward probably largely dependent on loan growth but how do you think it shapes out? Obviously the rates where they are doesn’t help but is it just as modest pressure of is there more material pressure to come? It depends on the pace of continued deposit inflows and how that gets redeployed.
If deposits remain steady where they are then the loan growth and the redeployment from cash into investment securities is going to be very supportive of the Inco.
If we get keep getting high single-digit or even low double-digit deposit growth and it doesn’t make and loan growth isn’t happening at the same pace where redeploying into investment securities doesn’t make sense at the same pace then the math is going to put pressure on that calculation.
And as you know that's not a calculation we're managing to.
It's an outcome of the other things that we're doing but the driver there is the growth in deposit and how you responsibly deploy that into either loans or securities in the same timeframe that the deposits are coming in.
Okay.
All right makes sense.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi Betsy.
Hi Betsy.
Hey I had a question on investment spend and thoughts around mobile wallet with Apple Pay obviously you did a lot of work there is there an opportunity to take those investments and potentially expand them into mobile wallet real time banking other tokenization strategies? Well we're doing a lot of work in all those things but the so called paperless store and doing real time cash letters and helping customers with real-time information not understanding which channel they're involved.
And so I would say all the above is important.
What we've found which is interesting is that our most loyal customers today are ones who use the channels most often and the most types of channels.
So even for those customers who are very advanced technology and use of technology ease of technology who might be dominant in that channel still visit stores on a infrequent but regular basis.
They go to ATMs.
So there is lots of things.
And we're making -- some of the investments we're making is to set up an appointment with the banker using your technology.
We're testing things about being able to authenticate customers knowing they are in the stores working on things that would authenticate an ATM machine maybe using your mobile on.
So there is mobile devices so there is just lots of things going on there.
And we're actually leaning a lot of those things from retailers and other service providers outside of our industry.
So pretty exciting stuff.
And do you feel this is like table stakes and will just maintain share or do you think that you're doing things that could potentially drive share up drive down that expense ratio? Well I think about less or an expense ratio but these are more than table -- while they're table stakes in some cases if you don't have a mobile offering you're probably not going to serve most millennials today.
But we think of it more than table stakes.
We think it's a big reason why we're growing net new primary tech new account where we're 5% a year.
The positive growth we've had clearly is a result of -- partially a result of our distribution model and the Omni channel view we have of these various channels not separate businesses but combined into really centric around the customer needs and convenience.
And our growth is I think reflective of our commitment to that.
And I guess I am just wondering too on a Dillard’s because I would expect that retailers also want best-in-class mobile apps etcetera is this part of what we should expect you'll be delivering to Dillard’s and other private liable portfolios that you're in? Well I don't want to speak about a particular situation but I'll just give you this.
16 years ago we didn't have an online offering.
Today over 80% of the customers are actively online some 28 million or 24 million customers actively online on the consumer side.
Five years ago we didn't have a mobile offering.
Today we have over 14 million customers on that.
I mean mobile is the fastest growing fastest adopted channel we've had in our history of our company.
And the things that customers can now do mobally and the things that they’ll be able to do in the next year or two as we continue to introduce new capabilities is really exciting.
So watch for this.
It's really important.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
On the -- kick the energy horse here again so my apologies but first of all can you just help quantify your total leverage loan book what the size is? And then of that leverage loan book how much of it is energy? Sure so we don't have a leverage loan book.
We have loan portfolios in various lines of business.
We have an energy loan portfolio which would include both oil and gas and as I mentioned it's about 2% of our loans overall and it includes E&amp;P companies.
It includes mid stream pipeline companies and it includes services companies.
It also includes some investment grade integrated oil names.
But some of that is about 2% of our total loan portfolio.
Some of those companies will have higher leverage.
Some of those companies will have lower leverage but we don't draw the portfolio line along the level of leverage.
Okay.
And then separately related to that do you have the amount of bond exposure that you may have held in your trading portfolios for any deals that you've done in the energy sector? Do you have that quantified? Yes it's a good question.
So I'll quantify for you our total securities exposure including what's in trading and also what's in AFS because we have some -- we have some corporate investments in energy names as well.
And the sum total of both of those is less than a $1.5 billion at Wells Fargo and it's much smaller portion in trading which of course gives mark-to-market through the P&amp;L every day and somewhat larger percentage of that is sitting in AFS which we mark every day but the value change goes through OCI.
Okay.
All right.
And then separately on the loan growth I agree good pick up that we saw in C&amp;I for the quarter and as we look out into 2015 is it fair to assume that you should see some acceleration in the loan growth that you're looking at for 2015 versus what you achieved in 2014.
I think you're in the 4% to 5% range for 2014.
Is it fair to assume that that accelerates from there next year or for the full year 2015? I think knowing what we know about the economy today we feel better about the next four quarters than couple of the last four quarters.
So if the most recent quarter is the continuation of a two quarter trend then yes we'll probably have higher loan growth or higher amounts originated.
Now if the denominator keeps growing as we grow the size of the portfolio and at some point the rate gets impacted by that.
But yes it feels like a good year for loan growth.
You know John we think if you're going to grow revenues over the long run you have to be growing households cross-sell deposits and loans and we share a plan for all of those.
Okay.
All right.
And my last question.
I know there are some questions around the excess liquidity reinvestment and what you've been buying I know you indicate you're buying treasuries and agencies.
Do you have what durations and what yields that you purchased in the quarter? Just to get an idea of what the ultimate impact could be on the margin? Yes we don't lay out quite that way.
You'll see in our tables what we're talking about but its treasuries and agencies you know the timeframe and I can tell you we're in the intermediate part of the curve.
So that will probably get you there.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning Eric.
Oh Regina he dropped.
Eric your line is open.
Hi can you hear me? Yes hi Eric.
Oh! Hi.
That was an odd because I was not on mute and I have the telephone at least once before.
Just to follow-up on the OpEx for a moment I understand the discussion of the ratio but just in terms of absolute level based on what I am hearing in terms of your loan growth expectation it sounds like we should be anticipating an absolute level of expense that is higher than what we saw in 2014.
Is that correct? It's really tough to say which is why we're talking percentages and think about things in terms of a range and you can see the items that we're calling out as feeling seasonal in Q4 and there is a handful of them and there an amount to a few $100 million.
And then of course in Q1 we typically have escalated personnel in benefits expense as well.
In terms of the OpEx of the investments that we're making in risk management etcetera they will be elevated for some period of time but because of all of the other drivers to the total expense number.
It's possible that we operate and there is a reasonable expectation that we operate at a lower level than we have in the last couple of quarters because we're always pushing down on things where we can.
So that's why we give you the range.
We think we're going to be in the range in 2015 like we have been in 2014.
One other item I had mentioned for those other new two that we do have this deferred comp element that shows up in expense even though it's a P&amp;L neutral item and that creates in some cases a couple $100 million worth of noise in any given quarter which is material given the differences that we're talking about here.
But Eric even though we're at the high end of the range now one should not assume that it's not top of mind around here it is.
It is.
It range top of mind and it's always looking for opportunities to be more efficient but also continue to invest in the future because we do have a long term view.
Right.
Of course.
And the financing that you provided on the student loan sale what is the expected duration of that? So that financing probably comes down over the course of next couple of years on a relatively steep curve as the portfolio gets permanently financed into student loan ABS and so my expectation I think the reasonable expectation is that it's average life would be maybe a little bit more than a year as it comes down.
Got it.
And just quickly one last thing the tax benefit that you mentioned in the period from the change in federal tax law is that a permanent benefit and what should we expect for your kind of go forward GAAP tax rate? So what happened in the fourth quarter is both the impact of the extender legislation that came in at the end of the year as well as the resolution of some discrete matters that we've been working on with the various taxing authorities for some period of time.
I would look at recent prior years for what the reason of what a good expectation is for a tax rate going forward.
Okay.
So largely unchanged it sounds like.
Yes I think that's right.
All right.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Mutascio with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys; Happy New Year to you.
Happy New Year to you Chris.
I have a quick question for John Shrewsberry you noted that your investment securities portfolio was increasing quite materially over last year; I think it's up about $50 billion.
Can you tell me what portion of that is Ginnie Mae MBS? How much is that Ginnie Mae portfolio.
If you have exposure has it grown in '14? It's negligible.
Okay.
Because I am assuming the refinance activity there with a 50 basis point cut plus rates being down I didn't know what the impact would be perhaps on the margin but your Ginnie Mae exposure is negligible.
Negligible.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Happy New Year Nancy.
Happy New Year.
Two questions for you.
John you mentioned the changes at in the GSEs and at the FHA with regard to allowable mortgages etcetera.
There seems to have been a remarkable turnaround in Washington since the days the financial crises when everybody was cracking down on mortgages and we're in a reverse posture now.
As a result of this do you see any changes that you might make at the mortgage company in terms of businesses that you exited the wholesale business etcetera that you might want to go back and revisit? No well first of all I think those are positive changes that have been made and I think they've been largely made because it got too restrictive and customers who deserved a loan who wanted to buy a home could afford it could not get credit.
And I am not -- I don't want to overstate the amount of those folks but there was that element and I think we've come to a much better place with regulators with the industry and with customers.
But no we don't have an intention of going back into joint ventures or the wholesale business.
We like the business mix we have now.
Okay.
Second question is this.
There was -- I believe a heard on the Street column a few days ago in the Wall Street Journal about the impact of the energy price drop on various banks and John I think they mentioned that the figure of 17% of revenues comes to mind with regard to your capital markets businesses related to energy.
Could you just clarify that where you stand in capital markets with relation to the energy business and is there going to be a big impact in revenues there? So in that article they referred to I think geologic information for 2014 that suggested that we had about $280 million worth of underwriting revenue from energy related activity.
So that would be debt and equity underwriting and probably loan syndication fees as well.
So that's the order of magnitude.
The 17% would refer to that as a percentage of the investment banking revenue -- U.S.
investment banking revenue for full year of 2014.
So if in terms of at risk or where it goes from here that's a starting point for last year.
And it bounced around between I don't know $150 million and maybe $300 million over the course of the last several years.
Okay.
And just one more question John Stumpf for you you've been very positive on the direction of the American economy for the last couple of quarters and I think you remain that way.
Well I don't know if you saw your predecessor Mr.
Kovacevich on CNBC a couple of mornings ago and he was not so positive on the strength of the American economy.
I am sure you still talk to Dick from time to time and sort of what is behind the differing views? What was his name again? That K guy.
Oh! The K guy.
Well I obviously respect Dick's view and there are different views in the economy but that being said when I -- and there is volatility clearly.
Today look at retail sales and if I feel differently so you can feel differently on a day to day basis.
But when I look at the businesses that we're in and as I am talking with customers which I am every day and talking with our business leaders and frankly looking at the numbers 50 consecutive months of employment growth.
Unemployment in the five six range.
GDP 5% and will probably have a few quarters this year that start with 3%.
So I am optimistic.
I don't think -- again I don't think this is a breakout but I think we're on the front foot and consumer's confidence is at a all time high since the downturn.
So the way I read the tea leaves I'm optimistic.
I think Dick also suggest that we could have gotten here sooner.
We could be at higher levels… And actually I agree with that.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our final question will come from the line of Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks.
Please go ahead.
Hello and well glad to have wrap it up for you.
If you look at the capital deployment ratios if you look at your total payout this quarter of 72% which is I think close to your stated target you talked about around 75%.
So the increased capital deployment from here are you going to need to see some earnings momentum or do you think you could push pass at 75% payout ratio? So our target is 55% to 75% and you saw that it bounced around during the course of the four quarters of 2014 for a few reasons.
One of them is that we do more share issuance in connection with our benefit plans in the first half of the year and so it drives down the net payout ratio.
The first call on our capital is to be available to support more loan growth on behalf of our customers.
So the capital deployment horse is out in front of the net payout cart and that's important to remember because we're not hoping that we have enough to support the business growth after we think about distribution.
We're making sure we have enough to support the business growth and then we're factoring in distribution behind that.
So we anticipate continuing to operate in the range quarter by quarter 55% to 75% and the fourth quarter was a high take on that in the 70s.
And that was really kind of looking back towards the E part of that which is as earnings grow that gives you more chance what kind of catalyst do you see until -- while we're waiting on interest rates to create some incremental earnings momentum kind of reigniting that that we've seen kind of slow down over the last couple of quarters? Sure well its loan growth for sure.
It's redeployment of excess liquidity into higher yielding earning assets.
It will be what the impact is on expenses that we've been talking a lot a little bit if we do as expected there.
And then it's the various sources of fee revenue which have which reflect quarter to quarter up year-over-year but there is a lot of momentum in places like card places like investment banking trust and investment fees overall.
We just talked about the slightly more bullish case for mortgage this year.
All of those are catalysts for growth.
Thanks.
Yes.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And thanks everybody who joined us today and again Happy New Year to everybody and thanks for your interest in Wells Fargo.
See you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you all for joining.
You may now disconnect.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo First Quarter Earnings conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question and answer session.
If you would like to ask a question during this time simply press star then the number one on your telephone keypad.
If you would like to withdraw your question press the pound key.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Rowe you may begin your conference.
Thank you Regina and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today where our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf and our CFO John Shrewsberry will discuss first quarter results and answer your questions.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that our first quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at wellsfargo.com.
I’d also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today’s call that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.
Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can also be found in our SEC filings in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website.
I will now turn our call over to our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
We earned $5.8 billion in the first quarter which reflected the benefit of our diversified business model and our continued focus on the real economy.
By building relationships with our existing customers and successfully generating new relationships during the past year we were able to grow loans and deposits and increase our revenue.
Our capital levels remained strong and we continued to focus on rewarding our shareholders by increasing our dividend and reducing our shares outstanding.
Let me highlight our growth during the quarter compared with a year ago.
We generated $21.3 billion of revenue up 3% from a year ago with growth in both net interest income and non-interest income.
We had broad-based loan growth with our core loan portfolio increasing by $54.2 billion or 7%.
Our deposit franchise continued to generate strong customer and balanced growth with total deposits reaching a record $1.2 trillion up $102.1 billion or 9% and we grew the number of primary consumer checking customers by 5.7%.
Our credit performance continued to be very strong with net charge-offs down $117 million and our net charge-off ratio declined to 33 basis points.
Our financial performance resulted in strong capital generation and returning capital to our shareholders remains a priority.
Our net payout ratio was 61% in the first quarter.
We’re extremely pleased that our 2015 capital plan allows us to increase our quarterly dividend by 7% to $0.375 per common share for the second quarter of this year of course subject to board approval.
Our ability to increase our dividend every year since 2011 demonstrates the benefits of our diversified business model and conservative risk management as well as our disciplined capital management process.
We have over 90 different businesses that are benefiting from the continued strength in the U.S.
economy.
While the first quarter economic headlines again demonstrated that the economic recovery has been uneven I believe the underlying economic expansion that is approaching its sixth anniversary remains largely on track.
Interest rates remain low homes are affordable consumer and small business confidence remains high and the labor market is approaching full employment after a record 54 consecutive monthly payroll gains.
I’m optimistic that the improving U.S.
economy will continue to provide Wells Fargo with many opportunities to better serve our customers our communities and reward our shareholders.
John Shrewsberry our Chief Financial Officer will now provide more details on our first quarter results.
John? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
My comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly supplement starting on Page 2.
John and I will then answer your questions.
Wells Fargo had another strong quarter earning $5.8 billion and $1.04 in EPS in the first quarter and returning net $3.3 billion of capital to shareholders.
Our results were driven by average loan and deposit growth and lower expenses while we maintained our strong capital and liquidity positions.
Our results also benefited from a net $359 million discrete tax benefit in the first quarter primarily from a reduction in the reserve for uncertain tax positions due to the resolution of prior period matters with U.S.
federal and state taxing authorities.
As a reminder we also had a $423 million discrete tax benefit in the first quarter of last year.
We take a prudent approach in accounting for our tax liability which can result in discrete tax benefits depending on the resolution of prior period matters with taxing authorities.
Page 3 highlights our results compared with a year ago including increased revenue and pre-tax pre-provision profit strong loan and deposit growth and lower share count reflecting net share repurchases.
Page 4 highlights our revenue diversification and the balance between spread and fee income in the first quarter.
The benefit of the diversity of our 90-plus businesses was demonstrated by our ability to grow both net interest income and non-interest income in the first quarter compared with a year ago which was a key driver of our performance.
As I’ve highlighted in the past the drivers of our fee generation vary based on interest rates and economic conditions.
For example market-sensitive revenue which includes trading and gains from debt and equity investments declined 22% from a year ago dropping from 14% to fee income to 11%.
However other businesses had strong growth and we generated higher trust and investment card and mortgage banking fee income.
With this broad-based growth we were able to grow fee income 3% from a year ago.
Let me highlight some key drivers of our first quarter results from a balance sheet and income statement perspective starting on Page 5.
I believe our balance sheet has never been stronger.
We generated core loan and deposit growth and have increased liquidity and capital to record levels.
Let me take a minute to describe how we’re managing in the current rate environment.
We’ve been able to perform well across a variety of rate cycles over time because of the diversification of the business model.
We’re often asked about how we manage our interest rate risk in particular the timing of making investments in a lower rate environment.
As you might imagine we evaluate our interest rate risk position continuously and frequently weigh options to alter the overall sensitivity of the balance sheet.
We consider factors such as the expected growth in loans and deposits performance under a wide range of rate scenarios and the trade-offs between the protection from lower rates afforded by adding duration and the consequences of those actions in higher rate scenarios.
Based upon these analyses we then make decisions about the kind of instruments we use.
We can purchase securities outright or extend the duration of variable rate loans with interest rate swaps and the magnitude and profile of the duration we add.
All in all we try to balance a number of considerations and maintain flexibility as conditions evolve.
Turning to the income statement on Page 6 revenue declined from fourth quarter as net interest income was lower reflecting two fewer days in the first quarter and lower income from variable sources; however non-interest income grew from the fourth quarter even though the fourth quarter included a $217 million gain on the sale of government-guaranteed student loans.
The growth in fee income reflected momentum across our businesses which I’ll highlight throughout the call.
As shown on Page 7 we continued to have strong broad-based loan growth in the first quarter our 15<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth.
Our core loan portfolio grew by $54.2 billion or 7% from a year ago and was up $914 million from the fourth quarter.
Linked quarter commercial loan growth was driven by real estate construction and lease financing.
Consumer loans grew slightly as growth in non-conforming mortgage auto security-based lending and student loans was largely offset by payoffs in the junior lien portfolio and seasonality in credit cards.
On Page 8 we highlight our loan portfolios that had strong year-over-year growth.
C&amp;I loans were up $31.9 billion or 13% from a year ago with broad-based growth across most of our wholesale businesses.
Core one-to-four family first mortgage loans grew $13 billion or 7% from a year ago reflecting continued growth in high-quality non-conforming mortgages primarily jumbo loans.
The credit quality of our core mortgage portfolio remains strong with only 7 basis points of credit losses in the first quarter.
Credit card balances were up $4 billion or 15% from a year ago benefiting from strong new account growth and the Dillards portfolio acquisition in the fourth quarter.
Auto loans were up $3.7 billion or 7% from last year.
While we continued to benefit from the strong auto market new originations were down 10% from a year ago reflecting our continued risk and pricing discipline in a competitive market.
As you can see on Page 9 we had $1.2 trillion of average deposits in the first quarter up $97.5 billion from a year ago and up $25 billion from fourth quarter.
Our average deposit cost was 9 basis points consistent with the fourth quarter and down 2 basis points from a year ago.
We successfully grew primary consumer checking customers by 5.7% from a year ago and primary small business and business banking checking customers increased 5.5%.
Our ability to consistently grow primary checking customers is important because these customers have more interactions with us have higher cross-sell and are more than twice as profitable as non-primary checking customers.
We grew net interest income on a tax-equivalent basis by $396 million or 4% from a year ago reflecting strong growth in average earning assets up $170 billion or 12%.
Net interest income declined $190 million from fourth quarter due to two fewer days in the first quarter and lower variable income.
The net interest margin declined 9 basis points from the fourth quarter due to strong customer-driven deposit growth.
This reduced the margin by 5 basis points but had minimal impact to net interest income.
Lower interest income from variable sources due to reduced loan fees and PCI loan recoveries decreased the margin by 3 basis points.
Liquidity-related activity which was not LCR-related but taken to demonstrate market access and the liquidity of our securities portfolio reduced the margin by 1 basis point.
All other balance sheet and repricing did not impact the margin in the first quarter.
Our balance sheet remained asset-sensitive and we’re well positioned to benefit from higher rates.
We believe we can grow net interest income in 2015 compared with 2014 even if rates remain low as we demonstrated last year.
Total non-interest income increased $29 million from fourth quarter and grew $282 million from a year ago up 3%.
Trading gains increased $229 million from fourth quarter primarily from higher customer accommodation trading reflecting better markets in high grade/high yield and RNBS as well as seasonality.
Mortgage banking revenue increased $32 million from fourth quarter on higher origination volume up $5 billion or 11%.
Fifty-five percent of originations were for refinancing up from 40% in the fourth quarter as rates declined.
We ended the quarter with a $44 billion application pipeline the highest pipeline since the second quarter of 2013 and we expect funding volumes to increase in the second quarter given the size of the pipeline and the seasonal home buying that typically occurs during the second quarter spring buying season.
Our gain on sale ratio increased to 2.06% in the first quarter as pricing margins expanded reflecting strong refinance volume and lenders priced to balance volumes and capacity.
We currently expect the second quarter gain on sale ratio to be at the higher end of the range we’ve seen over the past five quarters 140 basis points to 206 basis points.
Servicing income declined $162 million from the fourth quarter as MSR results declined $127 million reflecting higher prepayment expectations associated with reductions in FHA mortgage insurance premiums.
This valuation adjustment directly reduced our servicing results in the quarter.
As shown on Page 12 expenses were down $140 million from the fourth quarter.
Our first quarter expenses included $452 million of seasonally higher employee benefits expenses from higher payroll taxes and 401k matching as well as $236 million for annual equity awards to retirement-eligible team members.
These seasonally higher expenses were offset by lower salaries reflecting two fewer days in the quarter lower revenue-based incentive compensation and reduced outside professional services equipment travel and entertainment and advertising expenses.
While we will not have the seasonally higher personnel expenses in the second quarter there are certain expenses that will increase including salary expense reflecting high day count and annual merit increases and certain expenses that are typically lower in the first quarter such as outside professional services and advertising expenses are also expected to increase.
Our efficiency ratio improved to 58.8% in the first quarter and we expect the efficiency ratio for the full year 2015 to remain within our targeted range of 55 to 59%.
Turning to our business segment starting on Page 13 community banking earned $3.7 billion in the first quarter down 5% from a year ago and up 7% from the fourth quarter.
As I highlighted earlier we had continued strong growth in primary consumer checking customers up 5.7% from a year ago.
Our broad-based and industry-leading distribution channels are one reason for this growth.
While our customers actively use all of our channels including more than 75% of our deposit customers visiting a banking store at least once within the last six months mobile banking is growing the fastest.
We had 14.9 million active mobile customers up 19% from a year ago.
Our customers are increasingly using this channel with mobile banking sessions up 38% in 2014 while customer usage of our stores has remained stable.
We also continue to successfully grow retail bank households.
February was our highest monthly net gain of retail bank households in four years.
These new households provide us with growth opportunities as we focus on meeting their financial needs through our diversified product line.
An example of how we’re capturing this opportunity is in our debit and credit card businesses with card fees up 11% from a year ago.
Debit card purchase volume was up 8% and credit card purchase volume increased 16% from a year ago.
Our credit card business continued to have strong new account growth and active account growth.
Wholesale banking earned $1.8 billion in the first quarter up 3% from a year ago and down 9% from fourth quarter.
Loan growth continued to be strong with average loans up $35.7 billion or 12% from a year ago with broad-based growth across many businesses.
We’re excited about our announcement last week regarding the purchase of $9 billion of commercial real estate mortgage loans from GE Capital.
This is a portfolio of performing loans primarily in the U.S.
the United Kingdom and Canada which are active lending markets for us.
We also agreed to provide $4 billion of financing to Blackstone Mortgage Trust for their purchase of a commercial mortgage portfolio.
We expect these transactions to close in the second and third quarters of this year.
This is an excellent example of how the combination of our balance sheet strength the expertise of our team members and our relationship focus positions us to capture opportunities for growth both organically and through acquisition.
While we remain disciplined in deposit pricing we continue to benefit from strong deposit growth with average core deposits up $44.4 billion or 17% from a year ago.
Wholesale banking also had broad-based fee growth up 11% from a year ago with many of our diversified businesses growing at double digits.
Investment banking fees grew 44% from a year ago and we increased our market share to 4.9%.
This growth reflected continued improvement in our equity capital markets and investment-grade originations.
Treasury management revenue grew 11% reflecting new product sales and repricing.
Wealth brokerage and retirement earned a record $561 million in first quarter up 18% from a year ago and up 9% from fourth quarter.
WBR’s pre-tax margin was 24% in the first quarter close to their long-term target of 25%.
These strong results reflected 8% revenue growth from a year ago driven by 12% growth in net interest income and 8% growth in asset-based fees.
The partnership between WBR and community banking has been successful generating over $1 billion a month in closed referred investment assets.
During the past year 58% of referred assets were from new investment clients of Wells Fargo.
We’re also benefiting from increasing our license to private bankers in our banking stores by 15% from a year ago.
This partnership has also contributed to the growth in brokerage advisory assets which were $435 billion up 12% from a year ago.
WBR’s strong loan growth continued up 14% from a year ago the seventh consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year growth.
This growth was driven primarily by an increase in high quality non-conforming mortgage loans and security-based lending.
Turning to Page 16 credit quality in the first quarter remained strong with our net charge-off ratio declining to 33 basis points of average loans.
Non-performing assets have declined for 10 consecutive quarters and were down $618 million from fourth quarter.
Non-accrual loans declined $338 million and foreclosed assets declined $280 million.
The reserve release was $100 million in the first quarter down $150 million from fourth quarter and down $400 million from a year ago.
Let me update you on our energy portfolio.
We had $18.5 billion of oil and gas loans at the end of the first quarter or 2% of total loans outstanding.
The size of this portfolio was relatively stable from fourth quarter up only $65 million.
Approximately 55% of our portfolio was in the exploration and production or upstream sector.
We’ve been an industry leader in the energy sector for over 40 years and we take a disciplined approach to not only underwriting but also managing these loans and relationships.
Our teams constantly monitor and evaluate this portfolio on a loan-by-loan basis.
In the first quarter we performed an even greater review of each loan in this portfolio and in March we began the spring redetermination process for our reserve-based loans.
We realized minimal credit losses related to energy loans in the first quarter and our allowance at the end of the first quarter contemplated the inherent credit losses associated with our oil and gas exposure.
Our capital levels remain strong with our estimated common equity Tier 1 ratio under Basel III using the advanced approach fully phased in at 10.53% in the first quarter.
Last month the Federal Reserve and the OCC announced that we may begin using the advanced approach’s capital framework starting in the second quarter.
This approval did not include stipulations requiring us to increase our current advanced approach RWA.
We returned $3.3 billion to shareholders in the first quarter through dividends and net share repurchases.
Our common shares outstanding declined by 7 million shares in the first quarter reflecting 48 million shares purchased during the quarter partially offset by 41 million shares issued primarily through employee benefit plans which are seasonally high in the first quarter.
In addition we entered into a $750 million forward repurchase contract that settled earlier this month for 14 million shares.
We expect to reduce our common shares outstanding through share repurchases throughout the remainder of the year.
As John noted earlier on the call our 2015 capital plan included a proposed increase to our second quarter dividend to $0.375 per common share subject to board approval.
In summary the first quarter demonstrated the benefit of our diversified business model as shown by the results we highlight on Slide 19.
Through our consistent focus on serving our customers in the real economy we have realized growth across many of our businesses that will help drive future momentum.
We’ve grown primary consumer checking and small business and business banking checking customers.
We’ve added new credit card accounts increased debit card purchase volume and achieved strong retail bank household growth.
Mortgage originations have grown commercial card volume has increased and we’ve grown investment banking market share.
Treasury management fees have grown at a double-digit rate.
We’ve increased assets under management and we have higher retail brokerage managed account assets.
I’m optimistic that our diversified business model will continue to generate opportunities for growth and will enable us to continue to invest in our businesses.
We will now be happy to answer your questions.
[Operator instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning.
Thank you so much for giving us a detailed rundown in terms of how you’re thinking about your liquidity strategy.
I also appreciate the $28.4 billion in deposit growth came from consumer and escrow but taking a step back of the $1.2 trillion in period-end deposits how much would you classify as non-operational corporate? I guess we’re just wondering is adopting a similar strategy as your other large bank peers on non-operating deposits will that be able to alleviate some of the liquidity pressure on the NIM without much give-up on the LCR? It’s a good question and I’d say the answer is we’re not impacted in the same way as some of the other banks who have gone to the measures that they have announced to discourage those types of deposits.
We’re not constrained by the leverage ratio at this point.
We’re not meaningfully impacted by institutional non-operational deposits in our GSIB score and so we’re serving institutional customers and in some cases taking their deposits if it makes sense in the context of the bigger relationship but we’re not in the same position as the couple of banks who have had to go out of their way to drive down either leverage--change their leverage outcome or drive down their GSIB score.
So we will--we’re thinking about those relationships in a way where we can do the most good for Wells Fargo shareholders so if other people are charging more or are consolidating business activity to be willing to take those deposits there’s an opportunity for us to improve our business with those same types of customers but it’s not quite as urgent because we don’t have those problems.
I guess a better way to think about it is a lot of this excess deposit growth is going to be positive for your LCR and NSFR given that it looks like it’s mostly retail so low outflow high ASF factor type of deposits.
That’s correct.
And Erika the other thing that I know you’re aware of we love the entire relationships so surely on the retail side but it’s even true on the wholesale side.
When we become the primary account holder or think of it as a financial partner with a customer and deposits lead with that good things happen.
So that’s all part of serving customers broadly and deeply.
Just as a follow-up then I’ll step back you’ve been very consistent in terms of falling in that 55 to 59% efficiency ratio range and you’re consistent in terms of your forward guidance.
Again given some of the other large bank guidance in efficiency out there will it take rates for Wells Fargo to move further down to the 55% portion of that range? Well that would be one way to do it.
An increase in rates which would have an increase in revenue without a lot of associated expense would do that.
There are other ways to move a little bit lower in the range depending on the mix of where revenue comes from and the initiatives that we have to manage expenses.
But we’re comfortable in the range we’re at the higher end of the range today which is still an industry-leading level and these other folks who are enacting their efficiency plans are coming towards us so we’re going to keep doing what we’re doing.
But we’re not standing still.
We watch every expense around here as we repurpose dollars we save into things that we have to invest in.
Got it.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Your next question will come from the line of Bill Carcache with Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Thank you good morning.
Can you put into context for us whether the investment opportunities that you discussed that you see before you at the moment are--do you see them as growing or are they getting harder to identify as you look ahead at say the next 12 months versus the last 12 months? Then relating to these investment opportunities how should we be thinking about the trajectory of your payout ratio longer term? As you generate more capital going forward is it fair just to view your payout ratio as being inversely related to your investment opportunities? I guess I’m asking from the perspective of kind of general overall view that higher payout ratios are better but I’m wondering if that’s really how we should be thinking about it for Wells Fargo given that your capital position is already largely optimized and you’re not sitting on a lot of excess capital at the moment so whether or not we should be thinking about that.
So by investment opportunities are you referring to our deployment of liquidity or are you referring to like the GE Capital case where we’re buying a portfolio of loans with customers? I think the GE Capital case any other RWA growth for attractive return generation.
So serving our customers and deploying our capital in that way is the first call on our capital.
We’re trying to grow earning assets with customers with cross-sell benefit and create new and bigger relationships with customers that we have.
So certainly a certain amount of that factored into our capital plan so that we are imagining doing that while returning capital to shareholders at a high level; but if the landscape were to shift so that the opportunity became more meaningful for us to originate more assets and in some cases acquire more assets that are good for us then I think we’d be looking long and hard at that.
As far as the return on capital to shareholders I think our record speaks for itself and I know John mentioned it in his comments that we very much appreciate investment our shareholders have made in us and that we’re stewards of their capital and returning as much of that as is prudent is what we plan on doing and want to do.
There is no reason for us just to keep adding capital.
On the other hand first call is to grow the business as John mentioned and we will return as much as I mentioned as we prudently can as you just saw recently with our increase in our dividend or at least the ability to increase the dividend.
And the trick of course is to only take advantage of investment opportunities that are capable of generating the kind of return on equity that we’ve been generating and to keep distributions up to keep our capital level at the point - you use the term optimized - so that we’re not carrying excess capital that’s harder to produce that return on.
That’s the balance.
That’s very helpful.
My last question is on the dynamic that we’re seeing with loan growth outpacing deposit growth across the banking system as a whole but for the larger banks including Wells Fargo I guess we’re still seeing deposit growth outpacing loan growth.
I was hoping that you could just talk about what you think may be driving that and do you see anything on the horizon that you think could change that; in other words just lead to loan growth outpacing deposit growth at the large banks as well.
Well I think every large bank has a slightly different business mix and so whatever accounts for their loan growth is going to be unique to them.
In our case because we’ve done such a good job at attracting retail households and attracting wholesale relationships that are bringing meaningful liquidity in deposit growth has been outpacing loan growth for some time and it would take a big move in loan growth - which could include utilization of existing credit facilities or incremental funded loans - in order to catch up with that.
It would have to be in a higher economic growth environment I think for loan growth to get into the 9% range which is where deposits have been.
<br>Now if we’re buying portfolios of loans like we are in the next couple of quarters that will certainly have an impact on that but that’s not probably something that you would project into the future at that same pace.
So I don’t see that turning around in the near term.
In fact these are some of the strongest deposit growth years I’ve seen in my 30-some years with the company and I think it’s partly because of the way we work together as a company our distribution the convenience we provide for customers our focus on this.
So it’s been very strong and all signs are that we’ll continue to have a very strong deposit growth profile.
And at 9 basis points it’s not as though we’re overpaying.
No exactly.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
John we wanted to just go back to the efficiency ratio.
Is it reasonable to expect as long as rates stay low and credit is as good as it is right now you’re likely to stay at the upper end of your targeted range? I think John Shrewsberry you said last call you’d be okay staying at the higher end of the--you know in this kind of environment.
Is there any expenses that are kind of still cyclically elevated? Maybe just give a little more color there.
Yes we’re continuing to--we’re always looking for ways to be as John said as efficiency as we can and to make the most of every dollar we spend.
At the same time now is the time when there are big demands in information security and compliance and risk management and so if we’re finding dollars on the efficiency side of the ledger we’re reinvesting them either in products and services for our customers or in becoming best-in-class across all risk management aspects.
So that’s probably going to keep us here at the higher end of the range unless we have a breakout in some revenue category or we have an increase in rates which is fine.
At 58 59% it’s still an attractive level to be performing at and we’re improving our company every day.
Okay and on TLAC John is there some thoughts that you could share in terms of preparing for TLAC? The rules obviously aren’t finished yet but are you taking steps to prepare for your assessment of the most likely proposal that you’d see on that front? Sure so we’ve got a variety of analyses of most likely or best case/worst case and they look a lot like what’s out there in the public domain.
We’re going to end up issuing more term debt during the phase-in period and we’ll probably start in the relatively near term to leg into it so that we don’t end up with an enormous overhang that has to be issued in a short amount of time.
There’s still a lot to know--oh go ahead? Oh no sorry I was going to say is it preferred as well? If you could just kind of weigh in on preferreds relative to where you think you might need to be.
Yeah well there’s a little bit of preferred left to leg into our capital plan but not much.
And of course there might be more if there’s RWA growth and the whole capital stack expands pro rata.
I think we’re at 149 basis points of preferred today and our target is 150 so we’re pretty close there.
But if we grow RWA then there’s an opportunity for more of that.
The big job to do is going to be on the senior unsecured side and so we need to know what the total quantum is as a result of where we end up in the 16 to 20 range as a base.
We need to know what’s included and excluded and there’s still things on that list that are being resolved both in the international and domestic standard.
And then we need to know the exact phase-in period which we think we know.
So when you look at those calculations with what we have maturing or otherwise running off and then as I mentioned growth in RWA that will lead us to what our annual issuance has to be to get there on time when the rule is final.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
John I was wondering if you could provide any color to help us understand on the new loan purchases is there any way to put in context either the yield of the portfolio relative to the existing yield of the Wells Fargo book and do you bring over expenses with it or is it largely just interest income coming over as has happened in your prior acquisitions of loan books? So the yield on the portfolio looks a lot like our commercial real estate portfolio today because the loans look a lot like our commercial real estate loan portfolio today and it’s not coming over with material expense.
I think we probably will have to add some small number of incremental people but as you know we’re the largest commercial real estate lender in the U.S.
today and we’ve got a big seasoned team all over the country that’s close to borrowers and close to properties.
That’s the core team that will be managing the portfolio.
If we’re adding people it’s in the tens or maybe dozens of incremental professionals in order to help with asset management but not a big number in the context of the size of the portfolio.
Okay.
Then as a follow-up with regard to potential other portfolios that GE had talked about given your positioning in terms of helping them through the structure as you mentioned do you guys get a different look or have you already taken a look at other parts of the book and this is just the first tranche of what could be more or what’s your general perception of the opportunity set that could come forth for Wells Fargo? They're a great customer and we’re trying to continue to help them and work together like we did here.
They mentioned in their announcement that there is more to do and we’ll go through in any way that we can be helpful to them in ways that our good for our shareholders as well.
So there is opportunity there - I can’t really be specific about it because there are competitive processes at work and this is their balance sheet after all.
But we will definitely be working closely together to see if there are other ways that we can help them.
Okay.
One follow-up on your credit comments.
Understanding that energy is baked into this quarter and that you still net release reserves can you just kind of give us the pushes and pulls within the credit buckets in terms of how much more improvement do you continue to see on the rest of the book ex-the energy side or have we really just kind of gotten to the end of the natural improvement? Well there is still meaningful improvement in first mortgage in particular.
You’ve seen charge-offs - they continue to come down NPLs are down.
The portfolio is performing very very well so as a result there was room to take stock of what we think the issues are with the energy portfolio and end up with a net reserve release - a modest one but a net reserve release.
So it’s quarter by quarter we’ll look at it at the end of the second quarter and see what the numbers tell us but things do continue to improve.
But Ken I think we should also add that while there is still more improvement to be had on residential on the other hand our commercial side has been close to or even in a recovery position.
That won’t last forever so there is always pushes and pulls here but overall credit is really really doing well here.
That’s an industry phenomenon but especially here at Wells.
Understood.
Thank you guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Siefers with Sandler O’Neill &amp; Partners.
Please go ahead.
Morning guys.
Just a couple of quick questions.
So John the tax rate has kind of bumped around and this quarter obviously you had the discrete issue that you called out.
What’s the appropriate FTE tax rate to use going forward? The best way to think about the remainder of the year tax rate is to take the $359 million discrete tax benefit out of the first quarter and then recalculate the tax rate which would get you to the mid-32s.
Yes exactly.
Okay thank you.
Then the other one - when you had been talking about the mobile growth you had noted also that branch use has not been declining.
From your perspective who is coming in and what kind of stuff are they doing and as you look at overall branch traffic and use and the need for branches is it a good thing that people are still coming in in that it makes for an easier more direct cross-sell or is it more of a negative in that you have to make mobile investments but you can’t really leverage via fewer branches necessarily or as much branch reduction as you might hope.
How do you think about that dynamic? Yes here’s how we think about that.
We start out with a customer and customers tell us branches are important.
We hear that every day and while our other channels are growing - in fact if you think about the 12 000 consumer interactions we have a minute in this company 80% or so are what I would call digitally supported either let’s say online or mobile and mobile being our fastest growing.
But our stores our 6 200 stores are still busy.
Seventy-five percent of our customers come into a store once every six months even millennials or our most advanced on the digital side visit our stores visit ATMs.
But 85% of our growth sales happen there providing solutions so it doesn’t mean we have to build 5 000 or 6 000 square foot stores.
As you probably know and we’ve talked in the past we’ve tried some different concepts where we have 1 000 square foot stores that at night become an ATM vestibule and in the daytime the walls fold in and it becomes a full functioning digitally-enabled store.
We’re doing that kind of thing but our most loyal customer today is not necessarily the one who has the most products it’s the customer who does the most things with us uses the most channels most often.
So there is a--and we’re increasingly becoming an information provider.
We’re in the information business as much as on the retail we’re in the financial services business so this is really about connecting all the channels not about trying to drive customers into what’s cheaper for us.
That’s not how we think about that.
We think about what’s best for them and branches still remain an enormously important part in that.
Okay that’s good color.
I appreciate it.
Thanks a lot guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Morford with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
I guess first compared to the fourth quarter the commercial loan growth was a little slower outside of real estate construction.
Was some of that seasonal or were there other factors in play there? And just in general how do you feel about the current levels of demand on the commercial side? So the big Q4 to Q1 change is that we closed the sale of the student loan portfolio in Q4 which created a big C&amp;I loan that happened toward the end of the quarter so the step-up there was from a pretty elevated place.
That has an impact in the calculation.
I think in the first quarter we feel good.
Pipelines look pretty good.
We’ve talked to the leadership of the business and people are active so from one quarter to the next tough to tell.
The year-over-year trend in C&amp;I loans is really really healthy and then that step-up calculation is a little disadvantageous just to the math but business is good.
Okay.
The other question was just curious what your early read is on the spring selling season this year and are you starting to see any signs of a return of the first-time home buyer? Well Joe since we’re a big retail originator that’s obviously a big opportunity for us.
Your question would suggest that the first-time home buyer had been a bit absent in this recovery compared to what it’s been in previous recoveries but I think some of the work that the industry did along with the GSCs in understanding put-back risk and transfer of risk makes credit a little bit more available.
There is a little bit more activity going on wage increases and increases in employment that have been helpful.
Affordability is really--you know it’s a good time to buy a home so you never know.
We’re hopeful - we’re going into the quarter with the highest pipeline - $44 billion - that we’ve had in a couple years so we’re well positioned and we’ll have to see what the numbers show but we’re running on faith here.
Sounds good.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Hi can you hear me? Yeah hi Mike.
Good morning.
Hey.
Can you talk a little bit more in the housing backlog? How does it look by region and what are the areas of strength? It’s hard to say.
It would be--the mortgage business that we’re looking at right now we’re talking about national statistics.
I guess obviously when we’re talking about affordability and particularly for first-time home buyers or people who are most likely to benefit from the easing of the credit box that John just referred to they probably would have the hardest time in the hottest markets which - no surprise - are coastal markets and big cities sitting here in San Francisco and many of you in New York.
So things are more affordable in the middle of the country.
That wouldn’t come as any surprise.
Most of what we’re referring to is the national pipeline and statistics and as far as I can tell the production is pretty balanced from our various mortgage offices.
Mike just a couple things that you probably already know as John mentioned there are certain markets where the biggest challenge for housing is lack of inventory.
Still the entire Bay Area is a bid market where you bid for houses you--I mean my daughter and son-in-law bought a house recently.
You have to write a letter and tell them how nice you are and how many children you have.
A nice letter plus a lot of money will get you in the bidding process.
That’s not true of course everywhere but I was in Miami recently and that market it’s stunning how that market is really doing so well.
You would have looked back six years ago and you couldn’t imagine what’s going on today.
So it just depends and it’s a bit about what’s happening in those local economies.
In the Bay Area of course what’s happening in migration technology and so forth has really created a lot of activity here.
So it’s a bit of a mixed bag but all in all we’re optimistic about the second quarter here.
Right thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Yes thank you very much.
You talk very positively about your mobile banking your online banking which I think everybody is having that same trend but I know you’ve opened a couple express branches or whatever you want to call them in the Washington DC area.
How are they working out? Are you planning to expand those types of branches? Yes we have--the first one there was NoMa - north of Massachusetts and we had a second.
Now we’re doing a couple others in other markets but I don’t want to suggest for a minute that you’ll see 6 200 NoMa’s with 1 000 square feet across the franchise.
I think it’s a bit of everything meaning that there is some hub and spoke where you have a larger established branch or store that’s been there for many years and then you have others around that maybe wouldn’t be as large.
You have some like the case in north of Massachusetts where you couldn’t get 5 000 square feet and 1 000 square feet is optimal for that market.
So this is really about looking at our distribution and what we call actually health of your distribution - are you in the right location with the right hours the right people the right footprint and does the store or the branch work in concert with all the other channels of distribution so customers can start transactions one place finish another place.
Is there ubiquity is there one version of the truth around information and how customers serve themselves or want service from us.
So it’s a whole bunch of things that really matter in this and I think the proof in the pudding is our ability to grow primary checking accounts.
I’ve never seen growth of 5.7% and like John mentioned it’s not that we overpay on deposits - 9 basis points.
I mean this is the magic of how this thing all works together.
And also over by NoMa you also opened up one in a Safeway--I think it was a Safeway out there.
I know a lot of people are moving away from supermarket banking.
I don’t think you are a big player in that area but is that working out also? Yeah at one time--this goes back a number of years.
In 1998 when the former Norwest the side of the family I came from and Wells merged Wells was hugely indexed - over-indexed to grocery stores.
We’ve been adjusting that since that time but again we think of it density within a market and sometimes to fill out that density it’s a freestanding ATM machine sometimes it’s in-store sometimes it’s a NoMa 1 000 square foot so it all fits into what we call the S-curve.
Maybe I’ll just digress for a second.
If a community has let’s say 500 banking locations that’s optimal for a community and you have 20% of those - 100 and that’s the optimal amount you’ll actually get more than 20% of the business.
You’ll get 25% of the business because certain competitors will have 10% of the stores and they’ll get 8% of the business.
So there is a magic to the density and where the density is and how it works together and that’s just part of our learnings after many many years.
So sometimes grocery stores fit into that sometimes they don’t.
It surely would not be a lead-only strategy but as an augment it’s very powerful.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
How are you? Nancy hi.
I have a question for you John S - Stumpf.
Yeah there’s two John S’s around here! John S.
doesn’t go anymore.
There have been several articles recently one a couple of days ago I think maybe in the Wall Street Journal or somewhere about the changing risk profile at Wells Fargo.
They look at increased percentage of revenues coming from investment banking and assign a risk premium to that.
Could you just address the whole issue and just frame out for us how big you want investment banking and/or capital markets activities to be there? Yes it’s a good question.
We think of customers--and Nancy I’ll get to the specific question but the way we think about business here is around relationships relationships with team members.
My 11 direct reports have 28 years with the company.
We think of relationships with our customers our communities our shareholders.
Buffett’s been an owner of ours for 25 years.
We love long-term things so as it gets to investment banking activities we think of that as another solution another product another service.
Most of the revenue that comes from that business is from existing customers who have been doing business for a long long time.
When you are the number one middle market bank when you have leadership positions in energy and ag and commercial real estate and you do business with 80-plus or 90% of the Fortune 500 you’re going to get opportunities to serve customers deeply and broadly.
If that means that through our skills and our people and our value proposition that customers corporate customers want us to help them with valuation issuing debt issuing equity - wonderful.
If we’re not good enough to get that and they go someplace else we just have to work harder.
So I don’t really look at lead tables.
I guess I read where--in fact I read for the first time when I read the Journal that we were number seven or eight or nine - I can’t remember the number it was.
I could have cared less absolutely cared less.
I only care that we do the right thing for customers and if that means that we’re moving up - terrific.
If that means that others are growing faster because they’re taking risks or doing things that don’t make sense to us God bless them.
So that’s how we think about it not as a standalone business as one more way to help customers succeed.
So I guess that’s sort of it may or may not grow.
Exactly.
Just based on our skills and the market availability.
Nancy a couple of data points I’d give you just to help you dimension it.
If you look at Wells Fargo compared to the peer group on the risks that we run that we report in our 10-Qs and 10-K we’ve got a more modest set of trading businesses with a very low risk profile at least as measured by VAR which is the popular public version of that.
Our investment banking fees while we’re thrilled and happy to have them amount to a couple billion dollars a year something like that on a $90 billion revenue base.
I think this quarter we were in the $420 million $430 million range for trading revenue which is appropriate for the needs that we have for customer accommodation and for managing our own risks.
But still in the scheme of a $1.7 trillion balance sheet the equity that we carry and $90 billion worth of revenue it’s just another one of or a couple of the 90-plus businesses that we refer to and it’s not imagined to grow in an outsized way from where it is today.
We’re always trying to do more serve customers better.
We have great people but if we--imagine we doubled the size of the business over some period of time while the firm grew at it steady organic rate.
We’d still be in a relatively modest percentage of the overall firm.
And Nancy the risk really would be if you ever saw where the market is shrinking let’s say in investment banking or capital markets and we’re outsized growing because we’re taking on risks with customer relationships that we had not known that’s where you see the imbalance.
That’s again just not who we are.
Okay.
Second question for John No.
2 in mortgage banking if you could just repeat what you said about gain on sale.
I was writing as fast as I could but I missed the number.
And where do you expect it to be in the second quarter? Yes so the first quarter was at about 2% a little more - 2.06% which is the high end of the five-quarter range and the second quarter is operating in that neighborhood so we feel like we’re going to be at the high end of the range in the second quarter as well.
There’s a lot more discipline this time around Nancy with gain on sale margins as you well know because you’ve seen this industry over a long time so--and that’s a healthy thing.
Okay thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt O’Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Morning.
Just a follow-up on the mortgage competitive landscape here.
It’s interesting - we saw JP Morgan out earlier today with a big increase in correspondent originations versus a year ago.
I think maybe you’ve been a little more consistent in that business so it’s just some ebbs and flows.
If you could just remind us on the correspondent and maybe talk about the mix that you’re going after right now.
Yeah I don’t know if it’s a mix of going after as much as a mix of what’s coming in.
We’ve been very consistent as you said.
What happens when rates pop down and refis spike up is that our own servicing portfolio results in a lot more applications because the easiest thing for somebody to do when they want to take advantage of a rate rally is call Wells Fargo because we probably already have their mortgage.
So that’s going to have a bigger influence on a strategy that we might have around correspondent and I think you can see in the supplement that retail was $28 billion and correspondent $20 billion of this quarter’s activity.
That’s not an inconsistent blend versus the last several quarters.
There are more correspondents these days as you know that go direct to the agencies because the agencies have opened the window to them and that’s also a lower margin business for us so all things being equal we’re happy to be a retail lender but we do serve a big correspondent constituency.
And Matt if you go back in time we actually had a larger share of the correspondent because there was a number of competitors who backed away walked away from that market who come and go from time to time.
So that will ebb and flow as participants either stay in or get out or whatever.
Then to circle back on expenses I guess I’m focused on call it the people cost - the salaries commissions incentive comp employee benefits.
If you sum those three lines it's up I think 6 7% versus a year ago.
I know there’s the trading nuance that we need to adjust for but is there some impact of the mortgage pipeline impact on those numbers as you staff up in anticipation of higher volume? I’m trying to reconcile why that growth might be so much versus revenue in some of the categories in fees.
Yes I wouldn’t look towards mortgage.
I would look towards risk management and investments that we’re making along those lines.
The beauty about mortgage in the first quarter was that this refi pipeline helps use the capacity that we would have needed in the fourth quarter and we anticipate needing in the second quarter so it was a greater level of utilization.
For better or for worse the changes in year-over-year are a variety of other things including business mix by the way in terms of how commissions get paid and other revenue-related incentives.
But it would be that plus investments made in compliance and risk management cyber and information security things like that.
Those are--we have the best people and those are not inexpensive.
Any way to size that either on an absolute basis or versus say a year ago just that overall bucket of call it non-revenue related cost? I don’t have an accurate number.
I think we’ve talked about $100 million a quarter a couple quarters ago as having been an observable increase in that category and it’s not any lower than that today.
Maybe we’ll see if next time around we can put a finer point on that.
Okay.
All right thank you very much.
Again that is star one for any questions.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
John just to follow up on your energy-related comments and I appreciate the detail you provided but can you just clarify - was there in fact any increase in general or specific reserves for that portfolio or any downward migration in internal risk ratings or anything of that nature? There was a little bit of downward migration not enough to meaningfully drive the reserve.
There was a little bit of an increase in NPAs but negligible and we realized minimal losses in the quarter in the energy portfolio.
Okay.
But the change in reserve reflects all of the actual migration the actual observation of performance in the energy portfolio.
Understood.
One of the other institutions indicated that based on the forward price curve they would expect some of the pressure on the E&amp;P sector [indiscernible].
I’d have to say yes.
I mean we’re in the middle of our spring redetermination process for the borrowing base loans so we’ll have a better feeling afterwards.
We have noticed a lot of capital raising going on in the space.
We talked last quarter about the risk to our investment banking income around energy-related firms because we’re large in that space and we had a great first quarter in energy investment banking because lots of equity was raised lots of firms went to the debt market to turn themselves out.
So that’s a very positive sign - there’s people taking steps and changing their balance sheets and improving their risk profile so that and the combination of where the forward curve demonstrates that energy prices might be going is helpful.
But again that’s reflected in our early view of our allowance and it will be better informed once we finish our borrowing base redeterminations.
And typically when is that? During this quarter.
Great thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I want to drill into the mortgage banking a little bit more in that when we managed ours and we had this recognition of origination at close and not interest rate locked whenever prepayments kicked in servicing income was compressed as you had to write down the servicing for the expected prepayments but origination income wasn’t at its full run with refi.
So in my mind I was just trying to look at this first quarter as kind of the launching pad going into much stronger and not to quantify that but just a stronger return of revenues on mortgage from that timing effect.
Actually I think that’s a pretty astute observation because we would be valuing the MSR on prepayment expectations which reflect that lower interest rate and we haven’t taken the gain on the pipeline and what’s locked and slated to close in the second quarter.
Two follow-ups to that thought process.
Seventy-one basis points on the servicing portfolio has to be close to an all-time low.
Are we getting to the point that even with prepayments we wouldn’t need much more revaluation given you’ve already incorporated a lot of the expected prepayments into the current valuation? It’s a good observation but it’s tough to say.
We look at that calculation regularly but in connection with our preparation of our financial statements on a quarterly basis and take everything into account that’s available then and that’s when we strike the value.
Then lastly when you convert your unclosed pipeline of $44 billion into what would be a normal pull-through into originations in the next quarter I get to something like $75 billion to $80 billion.
Does that seem about right in the sense that that’s the kind of run rate you’re getting into at this point? Tough to know.
We don’t know what hasn’t happened yet and that’s what’s going to--the applications that will be received and pulled through in the quarter so too early to speculate.
The good thing is that half of it is already done in the unclosed pipeline so you at least know that part.
That’s right.
All right thank you.
Our final question will come from the line of John Pancari with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking my questions.
A quick question on the margin.
I wanted to get some color on the 13 basis point decline in commercial loan yields.
I know you indicated that was partly impacted by fees.
Did lower loan fees account for all of that or how much of it was downward pressure on yields from pricing pressure? It’s more PCI loan recoveries and lower loan fees than competitive pricing pressure.
Those things that we call the variable components of interest income are harder to predict and when a loan gets resolved that’s been sitting in workout sometime it comes through the margin line and then if a loan prepays or there is loan fee hung up in its carrying value then that sometimes comes through interest income as well.
It’s those types of items that are tough to plan for tough to budget and in this particular quarter were lower than in prior quarters.
Okay and then how does that play into your margin outlook? Is it fair to assume still mid-single digit basis point compression per quarter as we move through ’15? It’s too tough to call because it depends on what happens with deposit growth it depends on what happens with loan growth and then other investments that we make in the securities portfolio.
That’s what’s going to drive it.
It’s led by what happens to deposit growth and of course if there were a move in interest rates that would have an impact as well.
We’re not trying to forecast it in this instance.
Okay all right.
Yeah our real focus is on generating growth in net interest income and the margin is more the result not the reason.
Right okay.
Then on that front John if you could just talk a little bit about loan growth expectations.
I know you gave some good color on what you’re seeing on C&amp;I but CRE you saw still declines in your total CRE book.
I want to get some thoughts around a sustained inflection in that portfolio organically and then is it also fair to assume that the loan growth overall should remain in the mid-single digit range at this point? Tough to call because it depends on the mix.
We’ve got a variety of commercial and consumer asset types here that each have their own market and cyclical dynamics.
I think we expect cards were probably at a seasonal low in the first quarter so between seasonality and issuing new cards that business probably grows.
Auto we’ve kept--it’s grown but kept relatively stable.
It’s gotten to be a more competitive market and we’ve picked our spots I think a little bit more delicately.
In commercial real estate it’s going to be tough to spot the organic component of it because the purchase of the GE portfolio and this incremental loan to Blackstone Mortgage Trust is going to have a big impact in the second and third quarters.
But if I’d add anything to that it’s that now the competitive dynamic in commercial real estate lending is a little bit different because a big competition is exiting the business.
That probably means something for us organically if that’s helpful.
Okay thank you.
My last question is just on the credit side.
The oil and gas reserve post what you did this quarter can you quantify where that reserve stands right now? You know we don’t call it out specifically.
We capture the whole portfolio in our overall allowance for loan losses and feel that that is absolutely adequate for the loan book that we have which incidentally has never been better overall.
Oil and gas loans are approximately 2% of the total portfolio.
Right.
Okay thanks again for taking my questions.
Okay this concludes our call so thanks.
I especially want to thank you to all 265 000 team members for a very very good first quarter and thanks for all of you on the line.
We will see you next quarter.
Bye bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you all for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question and answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Rowe you may begin your conference.
Thank you Regina and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today where our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf and our CFO John Shrewsberry will discuss second quarter result and answer your questions.
This call will be recorded.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that our second quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at wellsfargo.com.
I’d also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today’s call that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings; including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.
Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can also be found in our SEC filings in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website.
I will now turn our call over to our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
We earned $5.7 billion in the second quarter as our diversified business model continued to generate strong loan and deposit growth.
Our financial strength and competitive position have allowed us to capture opportunities for growth both organically and through acquisitions.
In addition our commitment to managing risk and a benefit of an improving housing market continue to improve our credit results.
Let me highlight our growth this quarter compared with one year ago.
We earned $1.03 in earnings per share up 2% from a year ago.
We generated $21.3 billion of revenue up 1% from a year ago with 4% growth in net interest income.
We had broad based loan growth with total loans reaching a record $888.5 billion and our core loan portfolio increased by $68.5 billion or 9%.
Our growth benefited from the $11.5 billion GE Capital loan purchasing and financing transaction in the second quarter.
Our deposit franchise continue to generate strong customer and balance growth with average deposits up $83.8 billion or 8% while we reduced deposit costs.
We also grew the number of primary consumer checking customers by 5.6%.
Our credit performance continued to improve and our net charge-off rate declined to 30 basis points of average loans the lowest level in 20 years.
Our financial performance resulted in strong capital generation and returning capital to our shareholders remains a priority.
We increased our quarterly dividend rate by 7% to 37.5 cents per common share and we repurchased 36 million shares of common stock.
We’ve reduced our common shares outstanding for five consecutive quarters with shares down 105 million from one year ago.
While recent developments in Europe and Asia have implications for the US economy the ongoing US economic expansion has remained on track and has entered its seventh year a feat accomplished only four other times in the US history.
The labor market continued to recover with a record 57 consecutive months of payroll gains and housing activity has been especially encouraging with second quarter position to be the best quarter performance sales since 2007.
These factors along with an increase in consumer confidence makes me optimistic that the economic expansion will sustain momentum into the second half of the year and Wells Fargo should benefit from the increase in economic activity as we remain focused on meeting our customers’ financial needs.
John Shrewsberry our Chief Financial Officer will now provide more details on our second quarter results.
John? Thank you John and good morning everyone.
My comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly supplement starting on Page 2.
John and I will then answer your questions.
Our results this quarter is straightforward and demonstrate momentum across a variety of key business drivers.
We continue to have strong loan and deposit growth across our diversified businesses.
We grew net interest income with earning asset growth and our net interest margin improved.
Many of our customer-facing businesses generated strong fee growth.
Credit quality improved and we had lower net charge-offs and a higher reserve release and we continued to operate within our targeted ranges for ROA ROE and efficiency.
Let me now highlight these key drivers in more detail.
On Page 3 we highlight the year-over-year growth John emphasized in his remarks including revenue loans deposits and EPS as well as improving credit.
Turning to Page 4 we continued to benefit from the strength of our balance sheet which has positioned us well to take advantage of growth opportunities and to prudently deploy liquidity.
Short-term investments and FED funds sold were down $59.1 billion from the first quarter reflecting loan growth security purchases and lower deposit balances driven by seasonality in our consumer businesses and repricing in certain wholesale businesses.
Our securities portfolio grew $16 billion from the first quarter.
We purchased approximately $36 billion in securities primarily agency MBS US treasuries and municipal securities which were partially offset by maturities amortization and sales.
Turning to the income statement on Page 5 it’s important to note that the linked quarter decline in earnings was driven by the $359 million discrete tax benefit recognized in the first quarter.
Our pre-tax earnings increased $386 million or 5% from the first quarter demonstrating the underlying momentum we had across our businesses.
Revenue increased $40 million from first quarter with strong growth in net interest income up $284 million reflecting growth in earning assets.
We had linked quarter growth and fee income in most of our customer-facing businesses including deposit service charges trust and investment fees card fees merchant processing commercial real estate brokerage mortgage and insurance.
However non-interest income declined $244 million from first quarter due to lower market-sensitive revenue and lower other income driven by the accounting impact related to our debt hedges.
Expenses declined despite an increase in operating losses related to litigation accruals and we generated positive operating leverage.
As shown on Page 6 we continued to have strong loan growth in the second quarter our 16th consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth.
Our core loan portfolio grew by $68.5 billion or 9% from a year ago and was up $29.5 billion from first quarter.
Our growth was broad based which I’ll highlight on the next slide and included $11.5 billion from the GE Capital loan purchase and financing transaction.
This transaction is an excellent example of how the combination of our balance sheet strengths the expertise of our team members and our relationship focus positions us to capture opportunities for growth.
67% of this portfolio is US-based with the remainder of the portfolio predominantly in the United Kingdom and Canada which are active lending markets for us.
The loans we purchased were to over 145 different customers while we had existing relationships with many of these customers the transaction has provided us with a meaningful number of new relationships which we believe will lead to additional opportunities for new business.
It’s also important to note that we didn’t acquire these loans until late in the quarter so while it increased ending loan balances most of the benefit to average loans and to net interest income will be reflected in the third quarter.
On Page 7 we highlight the diversity of our loan growth.
C&amp;I loans were up $36.6 billion or 15% from a year ago the GE Capital transaction drove $4.2 billion of this growth primarily from the financing to Blackstone Mortgage Trust.
The rest of the growth was diversified across our wholesale businesses with double-digit year-over-year growth in asset-backed finance equipment finance corporate banking and government and institutional banking.
Commercial real estate loans grew $10.2 billion or 8% from a year ago and included $7.3 billion from the GE Capital transaction.
Core one-to-four family first mortgage loans grew $15 billion or 7% from a year ago and reflected continued growth in high-quality non-conforming mortgages.
Credit card balances were up $3.9 billion or 14% from a year ago benefiting from strong new account growth and the Dillard’s portfolio acquisition in the fourth quarter of last year.
Auto loans were up $3.7 billion or 7% from last year.
New originations reflected the strong auto market and were up 5% from a year ago and up 15% from first quarter benefiting from seasonality.
As highlighted on Page 8 we had $1.2 trillion of average deposits in the second quarter up $83.8 billion from a year ago and up $10.5 billion from first quarter.
Our average deposit cost declined 8 basis points down 2 basis points from a year ago.
The decline in ending balances reflected the seasonal impact to consumer balances due to income tax payments and repricing in certain wholesale businesses primarily global financial institutions.
We continued to successfully grow our primary consumer checking customers which were up 5.6% from a year ago and our primary small business and business banking checking customers increased 5.3%.
Our primary customers have more products with us and are more than twice as profitable as non-primary customers.
Page 9 highlights our revenue diversification in the balance between spread and fee income which has shifted slightly to more net-interest income as we benefited from strong earning asset growth.
Our earning asset mix results and diversified – results and diversified sources of interest income the drivers of our fee generation are also diverse and vary based on interest rate and economic conditions for example market-sensitive revenue which includes trading gains from our – trading and gains from our debt and equity investments declined 21% from first quarter market-sensitive revenue was 8% of our fee income in the second quarter down from 11% in the first quarter however many of our other customer-facing businesses generated higher fee income.
We grew net interest income on a tax equivalent basis by %524 million or 5% from a year ago reflecting strong growth in average earning assets up 11% from a year ago.
The $312 million increase in net interest income from first quarter reflected growth in earning assets and one extra day in the quarter.
Net interest income also benefited from increased income from variable sources lower deposit cost and higher income from interest rate swaps used to convert a portion of our floating rate commercial loans to fixed rate as we continue to add duration to our balance sheet.
The net interest margin increased 2 basis points from the first quarter.
This is the first linked quarter increase in the NIM since the first quarter of 2012.
The increase this quarter was driven by balance sheet repricing and growth including growth in investments and loans and lower deposit cost which benefited the margin by 4 basis points.
Higher variable income from increased loan fees semi-annual preferred dividends and PCR recoveries contributed 1 basis point to the margin customer-driven deposit growth reduced the margin by 3 basis points but had minimal impact to net interest income.
Our balance sheet remains asset-sensitive and we are positioned to benefit from higher rates.
However we believe we can grow net interest income in 2015 compared with 2014 even if rates remain low.
Total non-interest income declined $244 million from first quarter driven by lower market-sensitive revenue and lower other non-interest income.
The other non-interest income category was down $426 million in the second quarter driven by the accounting impact of interest rate and currency hedges associated with our long-term debt.
We are required to measure the hedge effectiveness quarterly and while the net impact is expected to be zero over the term quarterly interest rate and currency volatility can cause this line item to vary from quarter-to-quarter.
It’s important to note that while total non-interest income declined if you exclude market-sensitive revenue and other income we had strong diversified fee growth across our other fee categories demonstrating growth from doing more business with our customers.
In fact second quarter was the strongest quarter over the past five quarters for brokerage trust and investment management card merchant processing insurance and mortgage origination.
Mortgage banking revenue increased up $158 million from the first quarter on higher origination volume up $13 billion or 27%.
Second quarter had the highest level of mortgage production since the third quarter of 2013 54% of originations before purchases up 45% in the first quarter.
We ended the quarter with a $38 billion application pipeline up $8 billion from a year ago and down $6 billion from first quarter.
Based on the current rate environment the level of our pipeline and the seasonal slowdown in the purchase market we currently expect originations in the third quarter to be lower than the second quarter.
Our gain on sale ratio was 188 basis points in the second quarter and we currently expect the third quarter ratio to remain within the range of the past five quarters between 140 and 210 basis points.
As shown on Page 12 expenses were down $38 million from the first quarter the decline was primarily due to lower employee benefits expense which was seasonally elevated in the first quarter.
Operating losses were $521 million in the second quarter up $226 million from the first quarter reflecting higher litigation accruals for various legal matters.
While we continue to invest in our businesses reflected in higher professional services and advertising expenses in the second quarter we remained focused on operating efficiently as indicated by our efficiency ratio improving to 58.5%.
We expect the efficiency ratio for the full year 2015 to remain within our targeted range of 55% to 59%.
Turning to our business segment starting on Page 13 community banking earned $3.4 billion in the second quarter down 8% from first quarter which included the discrete tax benefit.
One of the drivers of our long-term growth is our ability to grow retail bank households.
Year-to-date through May we’ve had the strongest household growth in four years.
This strong growth reflects our success in attracting new customers to Wells Fargo as well as the benefit of better retention of our existing households as we remain focused on meeting their financial needs.
This focus has also resulted in an increase in total products held by our customers.
For example we’ve been successfully growing the penetration rate of credit cards to our retail bank households which has grown to 42.6% in the second quarter up from 39% a year ago and 34.9% two years ago.
Credit card purchase volume was up 15% from a year ago reflecting an increase in new accounts; debit card purchase volume was up 8% from a year ago benefiting from the strong growth in primary checking account customers and increased usage among existing customers.
Wholesale banking earned $2 billion in the second quarter up 3% from a year ago and 12% from first quarter.
Wholesale banking continued to have strong loan and deposit growth.
Average loans grew 12% from a year ago with broad based growth across most wholesale businesses.
This growth in average loans did not fully reflect the benefit of the GE Capital transaction reported late in the quarter.
Average core deposits grew 14% from a year ago and flat linked quarter reflecting pricing actions we took in the second quarter to reduce deposit costs.
The strong loan and deposit growth helps grow revenue by 2% from a year ago.
Treasury and management revenue grew 10% reflecting new product sales and repricing.
Second quarter revenue also benefited from higher equity gains from the sale of certain equity fund investments driven by the Volcker Rule.
Wells Brokerage and Retirement had another record quarter earning $602 million in the second quarter up 11% from a year ago and up 7% from first quarter.
WBR’s pre-tax margin was 26% in the second quarter exceeding its long-term target of 25%.
Revenue grew 5% from a year ago driven by higher recurring sources of revenue.
Net interest income increased 12% and asset-based fees were up 7%.
Brokerage advisory assets grew $434 billion up $25 billion or 6% from a year ago primarily driven by net flows.
WBR’s strong loan growth continued with eight consecutive quarters of year-over-year growth.
Loan growth accelerated this quarter up 16% from a year ago the strongest growth rate in over six years.
Growth was broad based with strong client demand across a number of product offerings.
Turning to Page 16 credit quality in the second quarter improved.
Our net charge-off rate declined to 30 basis points of average loans.
Non-performing assets have declined for 11 consecutive quarters and were down $438 million from first quarter.
Non-accrual loans declined $67 million from first quarter as higher energy non-accrual loans were offset by improvement in residential real estate as well as other categories.
The reserve release was $350 million in the second quarter.
The increase from first quarter was driven by continued credit quality improvement most notably significant improvement in residential real estate.
Our credit losses in our residential real estate portfolios declined 22% and non-accrual loans declined $388 million or 4% from first quarter.
It’s important to note that even small changes in the performance of our residential real estate portfolios tend to out way changes in other portfolios given the size of our residential real estate portfolio was 36% of total loans.
We had an increase in non-performing loans in our energy portfolio.
Oil and gas loans are only 2% of our total loan portfolio and balances in this portfolio declined by approximately $700 million from first quarter reflecting pay downs.
Our energy team completed their spring re-determination process during the second quarter and as expected the drop in energy prices did impact the cash flow and collateral values of a number of our borrowers leading to downward portfolio migration.
The deterioration in this portfolio is reflected in our allowance for credit losses and we will continue to monitor the energy portfolio.
Finally when considering our allowance it’s important to note that the loans we acquired from GE Capital were accounted for under purchase accounting under GAAP and reflected a lifetime credit loss adjustment and therefore did not require additional loan loss reserves typically associated with commercial loan growth.
Turning to Page 17 our capital levels remains strong with our estimated common equity tier-1 ratio under Basel-3 fully phased in at 10.5% in the second quarter.
We returned $2.9 billion to shareholders in the second quarter through dividends and net share repurchases.
Our common shares outstanding declined by 17.7 million shares in the second quarter reflecting 36.3 million shares repurchased and 18.6 million shares issued.
We expect to reduce our common shares outstanding through share repurchases throughout the remainder of the year.
Our dividend payout ratio increased to 36% in the second quarter as we increased the quarterly dividend rate on our common stock by 7%.
Our net payout ratio in the second quarter was 54%.
The decline in our net payout ratio reflected our strong asset and RWA growth as our first call for capital is for providing credit to our customers.
However we remained committed to returning capital to our shareholders and we expect our net payout ratio to be within our targeted range of 55% to 75% for the full year.
In summary our second quarter results demonstrated the benefit of our diversified business model with strong loan and deposit growth and momentum in non-interest income across many of our customer-facing businesses.
Our strong liquidity position and capital levels position us well to serve our existing customers while growing our customer base organically and through acquisition.
The improvement in credit quality demonstrated our continued focus on risk management.
While the current interest rate environment remains uncertain we are actively managing our expenses while focusing on meeting our customers’ financial needs to generate growth.
We will now be happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning.
John I was wondering if you could just give us a little bit more on your confidence about the economic environment versus the commentary about the competition out there.
So we know you guys are going to get a great benefit looking ahead from the averaging of the GE.
So on one could you just kind of flush out the pockets of loan growth that you continue to expect and then also do you anticipate being able to at least be in a pole position to get some more of those GE assets? Thanks.
So there are variety of loan categories that deserves to be mentioned individually but you know we are aggressively growing the card business with our existing deposit customers and percentage gains there will probably continue to be very strong.
Autos in spite of the heat in that market and our public posture of wanting to maintain our credit discipline still are providing a big opportunity because so many cars are being sold.
So and that’s a continued opportunity.
Still a lot going on in commercial real estate and as you mentioned the GE Capital loans helped us late in the third quarter there.
Jumbo loans on the residential side have been growing on the balance sheet at the same strong pace for a long time and we continue to – we expect to see that there.
Across the C&amp;I range we mentioned several of the businesses that have slightly independent but all attractive growth prospects.
The utilization of lines across the variety of corporate and commercial loan categories is still in the call it mid to low 30s.
So there is room for that improvement and we keep gathering new customers in those businesses as well.
So it’s really is coming from everywhere at attractive basis.
Yes Ken there is a fair amount of capacity to carry more debt by medium size companies small companies and consumers.
Rates are very favorable and most Americans businesses and consumers have de-risked and deleveraged their balance sheet.
So there are opportunities and we are very active on main street and on the back 40 working with the customers.
So we love this opportunity to do the GE thing but organic relative still the main part the way we grow.
And with respect what there still might be to do with GE there have been some portfolio sales that have been announced there since the one that we worked on.
We are working as closely as we can with them.
They are a great relationship of ours.
There are our businesses that they are trying to dispose of that fit neatly with our expertise.
Some things were going to be very competitive with and some because we are not expert in them will be less so.
But we are working hard.
We hope that that turns incremental opportunity to do more of what we’ve done on the commercial real estate side and we’ll be hearing about that in the coming months as their processes unfold.
Okay great.
And I have – just to follow-up on the energy portfolio shrinkage you spoke about the $700 million decline I am sure that we’ll have the questions about the NPA growth.
Could you talk about just what you are seeing in the energy side? Is that active? Like push outs by you guys is it the equitization coming in and taking out credits? Can you just talk about like how that portfolio behavior is acting and how that influences your provisioning decisions? Sure so I would describe the reduction in the principal balance as borrowers taking their balances down and just to conform with their borrowing base reductions and as I mentioned that was about $700 million of reduction in the second quarter.
There was a lot of capital being raised in the first quarter; capital markets activity was very brisk in the first quarter.
A little bit slower in the second quarter and a lot of that was equity coming in to stabilize balance sheets.
It feels like that slow down just a little bit as people process what happened in the first quarter.
So we don’t anticipate loan balances or new loan activity to be terribly brisk in terms of leading to higher outstandings at Wells Fargo in the second half of the year.
But the market is acting very rationally.
The market is acting very quickly.
The opportunists are arriving at the door and trying to work things out create business combinations and take advantage of the situation to resolve it.
So things are happening frankly a little bit faster than we might have anticipated sitting here six or eight months ago.
Thanks John.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Morford with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Hello Joe.
Hey Joe.
I guess just a follow-up on the credit trends within the energy portfolio.
With the borrowing base re-determinations finalized I mean you touched on this but how is performance tracked relative to initial expectations and how much of the increase in the related non-performing loans stems from that as opposed to the shared national credit exam? Well it’s a combination of both and it’s tough to call out specifically what the regulators might have independently wanted that we wouldn’t have agreed to or gotten to on our own.
I mean the outcome is what it is and if we had about a $400 million increase to non-performing assets in energy for the quarter which feels like it makes sense.
And to the extent that some of those were very conservative estimations of NPA status I think and that will be recaptured in the back-end of the process when those loans get worked out which is fine.
We had very nominal losses in the quarter and we’ll go into a fall re-determination for E&amp;P companies as well and we’ll measure the performance of the midstream and services companies at the same time.
We feel great about where our allowance is right now as you may recall they had an impact on our first quarter number even though that was pre re-determination and has an impact again on the second quarter number and who knows as the third and fourth quarter roll through I am sure that there will be more loans that are at issue.
The whole portfolio amounts to 2% of our loan portfolio we feel very well reserved for where we are.
We’ve got the best team in energy banking and our credit folks working through the portfolio.
So it’s - the impact here is relatively immaterial to Wells Fargo.
And we as we called out in our comment especially in a quarter like Q2 minor changes in our residential real estate portfolio have a tendency to dwarf whatever is going on in energy because 36% of the loan portfolio is in single-family real estate and 2% is in energy.
Joe I would offer this since I’ve been on a long time I think this is my third or fourth cycle I remember doing workouts in this business in the early 80s.
This one is different in that – the energy participants whether they be on the E&amp;P side or midstream whatever it is I am more conservative.
They tend to be better capitalized be rapid more quickly through reducing their CapEx budgets some case reducing dividends and some of the real stretchy stuff was done outside of our industry if you will.
So that mean that all situations are going to workout but they wouldn’t – and reacted much more quickly than I have seen in the past cycles.
That’s very helpful.
Big color.
I guess have you quantified what you have in terms of dedicated reserves against the energy portfolio and as you point out given that things like single-family is such a bigger part of the overall loan portfolio and what’s your broader outlook for the provision and the possibility of any future reserve releases? So we are bumping along here at 30 basis points of annualized net losses on the total loan portfolio and as we called out in the past we shouldn’t expect releases in any given quarter because it’s going to – the calculation heats quarter of the allowance is going to include the observed portfolio of the portfolio is going to include general economic conditions is going to include where the growth is coming from in the mix in the portfolio.
So I would not model in release of this magnitude going forward and of course as we’ve said we keep building our loan portfolio you’d expect to see builds often – things being equal.
Separately we also called out in the case of GE if we are growing our loan portfolio by acquiring loans and we invoke purchase accounting then that’s a complicating factor and whether the allowance is growing or not because the mark on the loans reflects the lifetime credit adjustment.
So that’s a little complicated.
But – so and for our own internal purposes of course there is an allocable component of the allowance that reflects what we think a loss – the inherent loss content is in the energy portfolio and that will grow or shrink depending on how the portfolio performs.
And as I said I would assume that the next couple of quarters how much better than the last quarter in terms of we are still resolving these issues some of them are just coming to life for certain borrowers but it’s a very contained portion of our loan portfolio and the aggregate impact should not be material for Wells Fargo.
Understand.
Thanks so much.
You bet.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Erika.
Just wanted to take a step back as we enter potentially a rising rate environment in the second half of the year fingers crossed one of your peers they meant mentioned anticipating a significantly more competitive environment for retail deposits given the regulators have essentially said there are good deposits and bad deposits this time around.
And secondarily they also mentioned entering new markets for the first time and de novoing.
I guess the first question is how should we expect Wells Fargo’s repricing to progress actually rise on the short-end secondarily given the impressive footprint that you’ve built how would you defend that market sharing footprint against those that are aggressively trying to grow retail deposits particularly for regulatory purposes? Erika let me start with that.
It’s a great question and not all retail deposits are credit equal.
You know our focus here has been on relationships and we think relationships on the consumer side start with a consumer checking account.
In fact I don’t have this exactly but I think it’s 86% of our retail customers have a checking account with us it’s their primary account they live out of that.
And if you look at certificates and deposit it’s less than $35 billion here.
So it’s a couple percent of ours.
So that’s a very different deposit make up and like other companies in our industry we had a lot of experience in rates backing up.
And the speed of the backup matters where it starts from a move from 300% to 400% is different from a move from nothing to 1%.
And also where you employ those more expensive deposits will you find offsetting earning assets to employ those.
And I recall the last time we went through this we had very aggressive deposit competitors who are using those deposits to fund businesses acquired to sell models in the real estate business for example.
So it was used.
So we’ve been through a lot of different things.
We’ve modeled this.
If I were a bettering person I would bet that we’ll probably be favorable to our model suggest early in the backup but I think one of the great under valued parts of our business today is the quality of our deposit franchise and you’ll see that in the backup.
And to the point of entering new markets well we adjust our store footprint meaningfully every year by opening and closing stores where we see fit I think as Carrie Tolstedt has described in our last Investor Day we believe that we need a certain amount of scale in any urban market before we can really make a difference and we are in most of the markets that we like to be in and of course we are not going to get there through acquisitions.
So it would seem unusual for us to commit to building for example hundreds and hundreds of stores in a new major urban center that we are not already a part of.
So I wouldn’t think about that as part of our next stage plan.
Got it and just a follow-up on some of the comments John thank you for telling us how you accounted for the GE purchase.
How should we think about your capital progress relative to further or incremental loan purchases? As I think about the past three quarters your CET1 ratio has been fairly stable at about 10.5%.
If you are using purchase accounting for larger loan purchases of course that would impact CET1 and I guess I'm wondering sort of what your thoughts on the – you know whether you may account for purchases differently going forward as you consider the CET1 progress particularly in light - in terms of some commentary you've heard from regulators recently about including CET1 surcharges in the CCAR test? Sure well so the first call on our capital is for our customers including prospective customers if we were going to add either an originator or acquirer portfolios of loans.
I don’t think there is any accounting theory out there that would allow us to add loans without impacting common equity tier-1.
I mean it’s – that’s risk-weighted assets are what is for.
So if we had a bigger opportunity to grow RWA faster and the way that we thought was very attractive for shareholders then we would probably do that and if we need to do for example curtail distributions and for some period of time in order to retain the capital to create that outcome then we would probably do that.
As we’ve told people in our capital planning process and describing it we want to keep as much capital as it’s appropriate and necessary to grow the business and that’s primarily by growing RWA and we want to distribute everything beyond that and which is about where we’ve been operating.
So if there were a bigger RWA opportunity we would measure where we were starting from we would understand what sort of capital generation was going on at that time and it’s possible we would end up retaining a little bit more in order to maintain satisfactory levels while growing assets.
Got it.
So I am clear on the takeaway.
Any portfolio purchases from has to be life of loan accounting in terms of the losses? Yes.
Okay.
And just a quick follow-up to the GE portfolio you did add this quarter you mentioned that we need to consider the average balance impact.
Are there any considerations on the average yield impact as we think about the third quarter? For average yield of the loan portfolio? Yes in terms of… Yes the GE loans fit right into the averages that we already had.
So it’s really more balanced.
Got it.
Thank you so much.
Your next question will come from the line of Bill Carcache with Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask a question on margins.
Part of the NIM compression that we have been seeing for so long has obviously been in part due to all the excess liquidity that's been getting parked at the FED as deposit growth has significantly outpaced loan growth really at a system-wide level.
But today we saw one of your competitors reported a decrease in deposits both sequentially and year-over-year while still putting up pretty solid loan growth and you guys also saw your loan growth outpaced your deposit growth this quarter.
So I guess the question is do you think we're at an inflection point where we'll no longer see deposit growth continue to exceed loan growth and if so does that suggest that that we should begin to see some continued improvement in NIMs going forward? Let me take the deposit side first and then John can do that.
If you – one quarter does not make summer as one sparrow if you will if you look at the last year we grew average deposits b y almost $84 billion and our core loan portfolio grew $60 some billion if you take our overall loan portfolio it was in the $40 billion to $50 billion.
So we actually outgrew deposits by some $20 billion or $30 billion on an annual basis.
The first quarter is always kind of a funny quarter when you compare to the second quarter or second quarter to the first quarter because of the tax impact because we have such a large retail deposit base.
So we look back I think to 1945 I think all but one year we grew deposit.
So whether we can outgrow or not outgrow we sure like our opportunities continuing on the deposit side because after all we are growing net new consumer checking accounts primary by 5.6% and on small business we are growing by 5.3% or 4%.
These are the strongest numbers I’ve seen in the last couple of years in my history at the company.
So these are very very strong acquisition numbers.
So one thing I have to mention about the industry and I am sure you are thinking about this.
But we are in a slightly different position but there are some other larger banks that are discouraging deposits because of the adverse impact on leverage ratio the adverse impact on the GSIB buffer calculations et cetera and people have been vocal about getting out there and trying to move those deposits out of their banks to take their numbers down and those are in the same deposit numbers that you are referring to.
So it’s a little bit complicated I think bank-by-bank as you are looking at it.
Ours is as John described.
And we are also not shrinking our store count and we have found that in our omni channel distribution where you have stores or locations ATMs phones online and mobile it’s the magic of all those working together.
And that’s a very strong compelling value proposition for our customers.
At both attracting retaining deposits and then back to Erika’s question about what happens in a backup people who want to move away from Wells Fargo are moving away from that value proposition that’s provided to them basically for free in exchange for having their relationship at Wells Fargo.
Thank you.
If I may as a follow-up the amount of liquidity that you are holding at the said FED you mentioned fell this quarter from an all-time high of $291 billion I believe last quarter.
Is it reasonable to expect that to continue to fall from here as you redeploy more of that into higher-yielding loans and securities? And taking LCR into consideration and the constraints there can you give us a sense for where we could see those balances go? Well it depends on what’s happening on other fronts including ongoing deposit growth.
But I wouldn’t forecast it as coming down but as we’ve described before there is probably tens of billions of dollars of room from where we are today to where that balance might go before we started to having any difficult discussions about LCR.
So there is plenty of room from where we are today.
Okay thank you for taking my questions.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Yes thank you very much.
Talking a bit about the mortgage side when we saw rates go up but I think a lot of – when the volumes have held in very strong some of that I think is the – as the refi pipeline coming out of first quarter but - can you talk a little bit about what you are seeing in the purchase market world? Is it really starting to make a comeback? So yes it was a strong quarter and I mean strongest in a while it doesn’t reflect the pre-crisis types of activity at this point.
It’s strong in a handful of individual markets California New York Southern Florida Denver or particular markets where we’ve seen a lot of strength.
First time home buyers are a little bit stronger at about 30% of home purchases.
We saw that our purchases as a percentage of originations were 54% this quarter versus 45 the prior quarter as you mentioned the second quarter had a lot of refis closing in it that were locked in the first quarter when rates were very low.
So when we think about new application volume in the second quarter my guess is as that flows through in Q3 that number will be even higher.
All things being equal because rates did backup meaningfully in the quarter.
So the business is good.
There is plenty of credit available.
We are obviously as enthusiastic and committed to it as we’ve ever been.
Margins have been holding in there nicely and the pipeline looks quite good actually.
And then go ahead.
One last thing I’d add is that all of that is a reflection of continued affordability while home prices have moved there is still affordable while rates have moved they are still affordable.
So that’s helping a lot and we’ve had an improving jobs market which brings more people into eligibility for a purchase or a refinancing.
And then you saw the – I mean everybody saw the [Indiscernible] has been pushed back another three months.
Do you see any impact on the mortgage market or on how you view the mortgage market with the new regulations with [Indiscernible] No except - one thing I would say is we were ready to go with the original deadline.
But no impact.
Okay.
Thank you very much gentlemen.
Your next question will come from the line of John McDonald with Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
Just a question John on the efficiency ratio.
You’re at the high end of your range last couple of quarters.
Do you see opportunities to drive down the efficiency ratio prior to rates going up or is it more likely to stay still at the upper-end of the range until we see interest rates move higher? I think it's going to stay in the upper part of the range until revenue moves higher which will probably happen as a result of - or at least most meaningfully over a short period of time because of rates moving higher.
We are spending the money that we think we need to spend to run a great business today and manage risk as well as invest in the future around things that customers want things that we need to be a well run resilient compliant risk managed technologically savvy firm and that gets us to 58 plus or minus percent which I would remind you is a very good number for a bank of our size.
But yes there is no near-term path or project to try and drive ourselves down in the range.
We are trying to operate where we have been accomplish all the things that we need to accomplish and deal with the reality that we are in a below 3% GDP growth environment in a zero rate environment neither of which is as hospitable as some other environments might be for revenue growth in banking.
And John the – but we're always as you know us and you know us well we continue to look for opportunities to simplify the business streamline the work we do so we can repurpose those dollars into things that are important to customers important to risk management other things here.
So the development that we are doing and image capture in our branches or our stores the different things that we invest in payments cyber and all the other things that we do we are self-funding through being very thoughtful about where we spend our money.
Thank you.
And one other question guys could you comment on the market and what it's like for additional portfolio purchases? I assume it's very competitive obviously GE has got some other assets out for sale.
And just in general nothing specific but more general what are the pros and cons when you look at portfolios to purchase and kind of how do you feel like the markets like for that? So it's very competitive and I think that this current set of assets that's being offered for sale is being viewed by some people as the biggest opportunity in a long time.
Some of the assets or platforms are suitable for non-depository institutions and I would say that non-banks interested in creating a lending platform would appear to be willing to pay a bigger premium than people who have an existing platform and are looking to add customers and assets to it.
All of these do require financing in one form or another.
So that can be either a limiting factor or for the easier to finance assets I guess that can be a benefit for people who don't have deposit bases in order to bid.
But very competitive it’s how I would describe it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yes.
Questions one on other income and one on the wealth business.
You called out on other income that you had a $426 million impact from the debt hedges.
I just wanted to make sure I understood what that was driven by - I know you indicated rate moves.
Just want to make sure I understand is that the long-end of the curve.
And does it have any relation to the fair value hedges that you put in the 10-Q the $173 million.
So wanted to make sure understand how that works.
Sure so for some of the debt that we issue we swap it back to dollars and swap it back to LIBOR and so we've got perfect cash flow hedges on where we choose to do that.
The accounting for that requires the liability on the one hand and the hedge on the other to be discounted using different discount rates and so over the life of both instruments there can be some noise in the P&amp;L.
We've had a benefit in the past and this time we had a negative and it was driven by a few things but mostly by the major movements in longer-term swap rates in dollar Sterling and LIBOR during the quarter.
And the net impact from the quarter is as it was described in the materials.
So I’d just point out this is sort of a – call that’s a timing difference an accounting difference it nets back to zero over the life of the liability.
So we don't think of it as a real economic issue but it creates noise in the other non-interest income line item.
Okay.
So the net was $426 million not the $426 million plus the $173 million from the fair value hedges in the 10-Q? Correct.
Okay.
Okay separately on wealth.
I've been just reading some articles recently that talked about how - and you can tell me this is correct or not but how the focus is not really on increasing the number of FAs and obviously we see flat FAs in the release you put out today but more on the technology and the investment spend there.
Is that accurate number one and number two could you explain how you are looking to advance the technology platforms that you got in this business? Sure.
So I wouldn't say that it's an express strategy to not increase the number of FAs.
I don't think that that's necessarily the primary driver of value creation in the long-term for David Carroll's business.
You may see that differently John.
The point on technology is a good one.
There are a number of initiatives underway in that business to modernize and to create service capability to attract new investors and to better serve the investors that we have.
And that turns up in the – sort of primary systems that our financial advisors use to interact with our customers.
It will turn up in our mobile and online offerings that allow people to do more for themselves and at some point it could even include service or capability that competes with some of the sort of the robo advisory people out there today who rely primarily on technology to construct portfolios and make offerings to customers.
All of those things are opportunities for us to make the business even stronger and more relevant going forward on top of what we feel is very good performance over the last few years.
Yes and Betsy we see this really is one of the most attractive growth opportunities in the company.
If you think of how we are positioned as a broadly diversified company serving customers one in three Americans one way or another Americans are living longer.
They are probably convinced you have to be more reliant on their own resources for the retirement.
And we have 10% to 11% of the deposits in the country and yet only a fraction of that as far as where we manage well.
So this is a big opportunity and investments in people and systems and capabilities but that should in no way the growth -- we've already done great work.
David Carroll and his team have done incredible.
I mean think how many companies out there would love to have the way we monetize and the way everybody else does $602 million of after-tax earnings for a quarter 26% margins these are very very good numbers.
Got it.
Thanks.
Hi a factual question.
What was the amount of your debt hedge loss in the second quarter? You mentioned that other income is down $426 million was that the amount of the debt hedge loss or is it different? It was - we had a $127 million gain in the first quarter and $193 million loss in the second quarter.
And again I just want to describe that as the accounting treatment for the hedging program that we have there.
But so think of this – that the delta between Q1 and Q2 as what creates the more outsized numbers.
So normal would just be zero? No normal would be around zero.
You’d expect it to be zero over its life.
Sometimes it's a little positive sometimes it's a little negative.
And it's driven by swap rates and currency movements in the currencies where we issue.
All right.
The more important question from me you mentioned repricing in wholesale businesses and at – what are you doing there as it relates to your market-sensitive revenues? What we repriced in wholesale is deposits and for a variety of customers the ones who seem to have acted most strongly in the deposit area were FIs which for all the reasons you could imagine how relatively low value liquidity deposits and so we have – we’ve been paying less for those deposits or in some cases and in some jurisdictions have been charging a little bit for those deposits and that's what we were referring to.
What are you seeing in pricing in your market-sensitive businesses more generally? And is that one reason why your – this is the lowest trading quarter you've had since the third quarter of 2011 and we'll certainly take the other revenues in lieu of trading.
But are you pricing some of those activities away? Is it simply the markets weaker? What's going on there? But especially as it relates to potential repricing or the competitive environment? Yes you know it's not as a result of Wells Fargo specific pricing strategies.
It's just the chips falling where they did in terms of flows volumes and other activity in the business.
And as you know in our trading business we have what you are thinking of which is market-making and customer accommodation activity but we also have the impact of our own deferred comp program et cetera which makes that line a little bit noisy.
But it's not as a result of any conscious business decision to price things differently to do any more of this or less of that it's just where the quarter fell.
And then lastly and so is pricing getting better worse and if so what areas within the market-sensitive areas? I wouldn't say that pricing is getting any better.
You would think that pricing might be getting better in areas where other banks are pulling back from providing financing or liquidity to customers which is part of the discussion around how some of the bigger trading-oriented banks have been providing repo providing securities finance et cetera and have limited their appetites.
But prices haven't gone up that much.
I think capacity has come out and people have had to figure out how to deal with that.
So at the moment it's still very - it's as competitive as it ever was and the pricing reflects that but not because of conscious strategies.
All right thank you.
Thanks Mike.
Thanks very much.
I just had one question to clarify the loan growth expectations.
And if I look at the core loan growth it's growing about excluding the GE transaction and run-off it's growing at about almost four times nominal GDP which would be at the higher end of the historical norm.
So I just want to make sure I understand John your comments about expectations of maybe some incremental leverage across both commercial and consumer.
But I wonder to what extent it may in fact that may already be occurring and the GDP number will move to reflect that rather than an acceleration in loan growth? That's good question.
We don't model loan growth necessarily as a reflection of prior quarter GDP.
But it's an interesting relationship.
I think our point is that the areas where we've been experiencing organic loan growth all are still very active.
We are still very competitive.
We are getting more than our fair share in most of those categories.
We've got further to run in car and I’d say than other people because we are starting from a smaller base.
And then in some of our material businesses we've got customers who have been holding back on their borrowing capacity.
So in the corporate - but in the commercial space in particular where we are a very big player our customers are still very cash-heavy which is reflected in our deposits and have maintained very low leverage profile.
So that if they got a little bit more enthusiasm around M&amp;A around organic growth or building a new plant et cetera expanding their businesses they have lots of debt capacity to do that and we’d expect to see some of that in line utilization or demand for funded assets.
But the real takeaway is that we're very well positioned in all of our key lending markets and competing well today.
And in those areas where there might be incremental drivers of demand and we hope to benefit from it when it happens.
And then of course we are working on a few strategic or inorganic activities as well.
Sure.
Thank you for that and just one clarification question.
Did you indicate how much your legal accrual was for the period? We didn't.
We’ve indicated the size of operating losses in total.
The amount of the change and the amount of the changes reflected – reflects increased litigation accruals but we don't split that out from our other operating losses.
And are those legal accruals for issues related disclosed in the 10-K or for new ones? It's for a variety of matters most of which you would already be familiar with.
Okay all right.
Thanks very much.
Good morning.
Hey Matt.
Good morning..
I know there's been some talk about working on becoming more efficient just kind of continuous improvement.
But do you have some formal initiative underway? I guess there was an article in a regional paper a couple months ago and it mentioned something called E&amp;E or something along the lines of that? Yes that's – as John was mentioning earlier we are trying to repurpose our expense dollars to their highest value area.
And so there is a collection of programs and ways of doing business of thinking about how we spend our resources that are designed to do just that.
So it's an internal it's a relatively formal program.
It's around some operational improvements.
It's around some of our staff functional alignment.
Some of our technology spend et cetera and it really is designed to make sure that where we are spending money and of course we spend a lot of it that we are putting it in the most impactful places.
Is it the kind of program where if we don't get rates increasing and a stronger economy then you can kind of redirect some of the savings more to the bottom-line versus investing in other areas? Well dollars are fungible but as the way we are thinking about it is we are directing those dollars toward places they are going to make a difference for customers which would drive revenue.
And they could see bottom-line improvement as a result of that.
But as I mentioned in response to an earlier question it's not really designed to drive us down in the efficiency ratio or to drive total dollars of expense down.
All things being equal it's designed to make sure that we are spending the money that we are spending in the most impactful place.
Okay.
And then just separately on the net interest margin as we think about the trajectory from here assuming rates don't increase what should the path of the NIM be? Well it's going to depend on what happens with deposits versus loan and other earning asset growth primarily.
So if we continue along the path that we are on right now then you would think that it would probably stay in or about this range.
There is not much else deposit pricing is quite efficient here at 8 basis points.
So as we get more invested as we add more loans and if we convert cash to higher yielding assets then that should be an improvement.
Over the course if you fast forward it to few years we'll probably be layering in more senior unsecured in connection with TLAC.
That will probably have a negative impact although relatively modest in the overall scheme of things.
We still expect net interest income in 2015 to be higher than 2014 which is frankly the most important thing all things being equal and that's what we are driving toward.
Let me just go back to the expensing just one more time so we are all on the same page.
There is talk on this call and of course we listen to what the Chairwoman of the FED has to say about rates.
But when we plan internally here we don't consider rate increases as part of the ongoing justification for an investment in anything.
So in other words we don't – you would not hear a language like I want to make this investment because when rates turnaround and go back up then this justifies this investment will be justified.
We don't know what's going to happen to rates and if rates do increase either long-term or the short-end or both that's a benefit to us.
But for the last five six years you could have said the same thing and it didn't happen.
So that's why there is a continual consideration here and pushing ourselves and our thinking to eliminate work that's no longer beneficial taking out processes that don't add values and investing in places and things that do add value and make us more competitive more nimble more relative to the constituents that we serve.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just a couple quick areas I want to ask about.
On the commercial loan yields it looks like they were up pretty solidly 7% to 8% or 7 to 8 bps or so for the quarter.
Just want to see if we can get a little bit of color on what drove that? Sure so there is a handful of things.
I mean it's the mix of the assets that we are adding to that portfolio from one period to the next which reflects customer activity customer demand both in terms of what's rolling on and what's rolling off.
Also you are seeing in that calculation the impact of having swapped portions of that portfolio from floating to fixed because that impacts the yield.
We've done that partially as the recognition that we think we are going to be in a lower long-term rate environment for a longer period of time than we might have previously thought.
So that impact is – runs through there as well still asset-sensitive but not waiting forever for rates to begin to move in that portfolio.
Okay all right.
That's helpful.
And then on the credit front back to the energy thing just real quick any clarity on how much of that increase in the energy-related non-accruals were E&amp;P versus oil service and then separately it sounds like some of this movement may have been related to the shared national credit exam.
Was there anything non-energy that may have been - any takeaways out of the shared national credit exam that may have impacted your non-energy portfolio? So on the first question like - remind me the first question again.
Yes just of the… E&amp;P it was predominantly all E&amp;P.
The services credits have – first of all they don't go through the exact same there is no borrowing base re-determination to occur in services companies; it's more like any other corporate in terms of how they are reviewed.
But the impact has not been felt there in quite the same way as it has with E&amp;P companies.
And then back to the shared national credit review in terms of the negative outcomes or the suggested downgrades it really was primarily an energy set of conclusions this time around.
Okay all right.
And then lastly the home equity portfolio just one of you can give us an update there.
As you are seeing some of the lines exit their draw periods want to see how those credits have been performing and you're seeing any migration there.
Well we've been – as we've talked about ahead of this end of draw expectation for sometime now because it was pretty easy to schedule and we are going into a couple of years when those 10-year draw periods will be coming to a close from the heaviest periods of issuance right at the – prior to the turn of the cycle and frankly I’d say we are experiencing a better outcome than we originally imagined in part because of our – because of our - the focus that we've had the team that we've had facing the proactive work that we're emphasizing trying to get people refied into something that is suitable or more tolerable for them to repay.
So things are going well.
And losses in that portfolio this quarter are in the 56 or 57 basis point range.
Yes very tolerable.
Very tolerable.
Okay on that front I mean do you know how much – what percentage of your 2005 originations may have been refied already or worked down? I don't – right I don’t at the - on this call our real estate group certainly knows because that's how that's been managed.
So they'll know what they have left and what is gone already.
But when I'm focusing on when I say that there is a plan underway that's being executed that's working of course for the ones that are still there and then have it refied out.
Got it.
All right.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Sure.
Thanks.
I had a question on – you talked about the duration of the balance sheet and you are doing that through swaps and through investment portfolio purchases.
Can you give us a feel for half-a-year six months is it nine months and how far do you want to go in the duration of the portfolio or the overall balance sheet? So how far are we along that process? So when we use the term duration we are using it in that context but not to define a duration of the balance sheet but really to think about using those tools the investment portfolio and loan portfolios to impact our overall asset or liability sensitivity.
And so the net conclusion of that is that not terribly unlike where we were at our last Investor Day.
We find ourselves still asset-sensitive.
We mentioned a year ago May that we thought that we were – we had probably 10 to 30 basis points worth of net sensitivity – net benefit from a 100 basis point instantaneous parallel movement in rates.
Very stylized example.
And we are less asset-sensitive.
If we were at the mean then we're at the lower-end of that range today we believe.
It's probably a conservative estimate.
We - that's how we generally calculate things.
But by adding securities by swapping floating rates to fixed and other actions that have occurred in the growth of the business we've made ourselves a little bit less asset-sensitive because of the belief that we could be in a lower rate environment for a longer period of time and we are earning today rather than maintaining all of that sensitivity for the future.
We still have plenty of it and we'll develop more of it as time passes but that's how I would answer that question.
And would you see any more lengthening in the near-term given the steepness of the yield curve now gives you an opportunity to kind of productively use that to your advantage? I would expect that we’d continue to be adding securities to our securities portfolio for sure.
And then lastly the mortgage banking pipeline was very strong going into the second quarter.
It looks like the pull through was about as low as we've seen in the last year.
I was just curious if there was any operational issue or anything that happened during the quarter? Was it just refis that never got closed? What was kind of the difference in the pull through for this particular quarter? There is nothing that I would point to.
We -- the production occurred the way we would have expected it to.
We ended with a relatively long – relatively large pipeline as well.
So nothing different there.
Thanks.
Just a quick follow-up on the some of the mortgage banking results you saw margins remain pretty strong compared to what you've had over historical basis and they were strong in the first quarter despite the decline in the primary/secondary spread.
Now the front-half of the quarter looked a lot stronger than the second half of the quarter.
Could you just give us some detail between the differences what you saw in maybe April and early May versus what you saw in the back half of the quarter? Yes it's tough to be that precise about it although I'm sure there are people in Wells Fargo Home Mortgage who are thinking about it as granularly as the question that you are asking.
Certainly in the first quarter as rates rallied hard and that pipeline really really grew applications came in at an increased pace.
The capacity constraints to deal with that both at Wells Fargo and in the industry are supportive of higher margins as people use their scarce capacity as beneficially as they can.
So you'd expect if that's a high point for things to slip a little bit from there.
In terms of where they've gotten to and where they are now we expect them to continue to be in that range.
The full range frankly is a pretty attractive place to be operating.
And as long as we can stay higher in the range like we have we’ll be thrilled to that to happen.
There is also from one quarter to the next the mix between what's happening in retail versus what's happening through others is going to influence our gain on sale and that might look different from one originator to another.
I think that's an important consideration.
But I mean frankly I would look at it quarter-to-quarter and then seasonally adjust it to think about what the steady-state is.
But the last thing I'd say is that we are - again we're pretty happy with where things have remained given how competitive that market is given how much capacity there is and we're happy to be operating here.
Yes I think just to support John's comment I remember when gain on sales - years ago were 40 50 60 basis points.
So the pricing discipline even with the capacity and the size of the market is a – I think a good thing for Americans good thing for borrowers good thing for the originators because we are getting paid for the work that we're doing the value-add.
Okay and then just to mention - follow-up on some of the comments on the extension of the duration of the balance sheet this quarter with the use of interest rate swaps.
Could you provide some more details on why you are increasing your duration at this point in the cycle? Is it a change in your view on whether you want to be patient for higher rates or is there some other reason why you would extend the duration now? So what's been happening for a while we are talking about it a little bit more now and maybe it was a little bit starker in this quarter because deposit growth slowed also so you saw cash balances go down while both securities and loans went up.
But as you suggest it’s regardless of what's happening with short-term rates and over what period of time that normalization of policy occurs it's our expectation that the longer-end of the curve that we are going to be lower for longer than we would have thought six months ago a year ago or a couple of years ago and how we are managing the balance sheet is a reflection of that.
Is there anything specific that you are seeing that would change your view that has changed your view in the last six months? Well in the last 6 to 12 months I would say what's happened with rates around the world has been a big reminder that a 2.5% US tenure is a really attractive asset and could be for a really long time.
So that's why I say regardless of what's happening with Fed funds we are preparing ourselves for a long march on - at the longer end of the curve.
And if we are wrong we have to be prepared for that in terms of what it means to capital et cetera and we certainly are and we - that drastically to make sure that we've protected our balance sheet.
But in the mean time we are getting our assets more productively deployed.
I would point out there is still $250 billion worth of cash in the bank.
So there is plenty of short-term liquidity and dry powder for what happens if we are wrong and there are more attractive entry points on the way back up if that were to occur but it's a good question.
Thank you for taking my questions.
The best for last.
Always.
Hi Nancy.
Hi couple questions on the mortgage front.
JPMorgan Chase reported a very strong production quarter in jumbo mortgages this morning.
How are you guys positioned in that market and what percentage or rough percentage of your production are jumbos? About 25% of our production are jumbos and that includes of course many of our most valuable customers in terms of the breadth of the total relationship.
We carry them on our balance sheet as you know.
Right.
And I think the total category right now for jumbos on our books is about $120 billion $125 billion of the - call it $1.7 trillion overall.
Okay.
And just a question on the mortgage business as a whole I mean do you consider at this point given all the gyrations we've had in the mortgage business in the past ten years are we at what you consider to be a normal mortgage market right now and are you staffed appropriately for that market or where does sort of the mechanics of the mortgage business stand for you right now? So in terms of staffing I am sure it's true that we are probably a little bit heavy in some areas around loss mitigation and working NPA's and foreclosed assets through the system versus where we might be in a completely normalized point in the cycle just because they are still elevated.
So there is probably opportunity there over some period of time.
From a policy normalcy point of view there is still other things happening whether it's agency reform the relationship between the FHA and the industry is still not completely settled and that has to happen for people to feel good about things.
We are still in those second - no meaningful secondary market for non-conforming loans and there was a good one for prime jumbo loans that existed pre-crisis and so at some point that probably has to re-emerge and that hasn't happened yet.
But we are just as committed to the business.
It's a very important part of the relationship between us and our customers because buying and financing a home is one of the most significant things our customers will ever do.
We enjoy our status as the largest mortgage servicer in the land and our status as the largest mortgage originator as well.
So we are working hard to try and shape good outcomes in those areas that are still unsettled and we are making the most of it during the period that we are in.
And Nancy it's an insightful question because I think part of the distinguishing features of big scale players in this business where you are successful or not is how quickly you can scale up when business opportunities present themselves and how quickly you can scale down.
And we think we are pretty good at that among other things.
And some are surprised that mortgage market has not come back stronger but we went through a pretty deep downturn.
This was the asset class that had the problem in 2008 and 2009 and it steadily – and it's improving and healing.
But it's going to take time.
And so like John said we really like this business for a whole host of reasons.
I would just ask as an add-on question Bank of America talks about their legacy asset servicing et cetera which is mostly mortgages that were still on the books that they are working out.
Where are you guys in - working out any problems you got through the Wachovia deal et cetera? I mean are you pretty much through the workout period now with most of that stuff? Well the pick-a-pay was probably the most problematic of that portfolio and that came over - let's say in the $120 billion range - $120 billion or so; and it’s $54 billion give or take now.
And the average loan to value in that is in the 60s.
All right.
So and if you look at -- if you look at the overall servicing portfolio we have it's 94% 95% current and so it’s - we've -- still issues going through there there is some judicial foreclosure states that we are still having to work through.
But for the most part it's performed above our expectations especially with respect to the Wachovia part and I think we are in the later innings of working on this and as John mentioned there is some opportunity to take some cost out.
The cost of servicing a current loan versus one that's delinquent is such a big difference.
So when people look at these portfolios you like to look at the past dues because it really – and the ones in the foreclosures because that really skews the costs on those.
I know that this is clear in the materials Nancy but we are – where our non-strategic or wind down portfolio is picking down at $2 billion to $3 billion per quarter and there is $50 billion odd of it left.
So the tail of it will be here for a while.
Okay.
All right thank you very much.
Thank you.
Well this concludes our call.
Thank you again for spending time with us.
It's always enjoyable for us to represent our 265 000 team members and the work that they do every quarter and John and I and Jim will see you on next quarter.
Thank you very much.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question and answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Rowe you may begin your conference.
Thank you Regina and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today where our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf and our CFO John Shrewsberry will discuss third quarter results and answer your questions.
This call is being recorded.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that our third quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at wellsfargo.com.
I’d also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today’s call that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings; including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.
Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can also be found in our SEC filings in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website.
I will now turn our call over to our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf.
Thank you Jim.
And thank you good morning and thanks for joining us today.
We earned $5.8 billion in the third quarter as our diversified business model generated growth in revenue loans deposits and net income compared with a year ago.
We remain focussed on meeting the financial needs of our customers and are investing in businesses so we may continue to meet the evolving needs of our customers in the future.
The strength of our franchise also positioned us well for the acquisitions we have recently announced.
We are excited that the transactions with GE Capital will enable us to deepen relationships and increase our presence in commercial businesses that serve the real economy.
General Electric like Wells Fargo is one of America’s great companies and the businesses we are acquiring are industry leaders with proven business models and exceptionally talented and experienced people.
We are excited to have them join the Wells Fargo team.
John Shrewsberry will provide more details on the recent GE Capital announcements at the end of the call.
Let me now highlight our results this quarter compared with the year ago.
We earned $1.05 in earnings per share up 3% from a year ago.
We generated $21.9 billion of revenue up 3% with growth in both net interest income and non-interest income.
We grew pre-tax pre provision profit by 6%.
We continue to have broad based loan growth with total loans reaching a record $903.2 billion.
This is a bit larger than the size of our loan portfolio at the time of the Wachovia merger at the end of 2008.
However the quality of our current portfolio is significantly better than at the time of the merger.
Our core loan portfolio increased by $73.4 billion or 9% from a year ago reflecting both strong organic growth and the benefit of the acquisitions we have completed over the past year.
Our deposit franchise once again generated strong customer and balanced growth with total deposits reaching a record $1.2 trillion up $71.6 billion or 6% from a year ago and we grew the number of primary consumer checking customers by 5.8%.
Our financial performance resulted in strong capital generation and returning capital to our shareholders remains our priority.
Our dividend payout ratio is 35% and we repurchased 52 million shares of common stock in the third quarter.
Turning to the economic environment the global economy showed some signs of weakness in the third quarter primarily in China and other emerging markets.
This weakness impacted the financial markets and the rising value of the U.S.
dollar has caused the trade deficit to widen.
As you know Wells Fargo is a U.S.
centric company and the U.S.
economy while not immune to these developments has proven quite resilient.
The low energy prices that are negatively impacting certain aspects of the economy have provided a welcome boost to consumers with many now beginning to redirect their savings into purchasing goods and services.
As an example new auto sales were at their highest levels in a decade.
Housing continued to rebound with home sales at their highest level since 2009 and a limited supply of homes of new homes are driving new home constructions and while the latest jobs report was disappointing relative to expectations the labor market continue to show steady gains with September posting the 60th consecutive month of rising employment something never before accomplished and the unemployment rate is at a level that many consider to be the long term norm.
As the U.S.
and the world economies evolve Well Fargo remains focussed on the building blocks of our growth.
Increasing the number of household reserve adding commercial relationships deepening consumer and commercial relationships and growing loans and deposits this focus will benefit our long term growth while we continue to meet our customers financial needs and navigate the challenges of today’s economy.
John Shrewsberry our CFO will now provide more details on our third quarter results.
John? Thank you John and good morning everyone.
My comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly supplement starting on Page 2.
John and I will then answer your questions.
Our third quarter results demonstrated consistent financial performance and momentum across a variety of key business drivers.
We continued to have strong loan and deposit growth across our diversified commercial and consumer businesses.
We grew revenue by generating growth in net interest income and non-interest income.
We produced positive operating leverage as our expenses declined.
Credit quality remained strong with net charge-offs of only 31 basis points of average loans and we operated within our targeted ranges for ROA ROE efficiency and net payout ratio.
Let me now highlight these key drivers in more detail.
On page three we showed the strong year-over-year growth John highlighted including revenue pre-tax pre provision profit loans deposits net income and EPS and we reduced our common shares outstanding by 106.5 million shares over the past year.
Turning to page four we continued to benefit from the strength of our balance sheet which has positioned us well to take advantage of growth opportunities including our recently announced acquisitions.
We grew total assets by 7% from a year ago and 2% from second quarter with growth in loans short term investments and investment securities.
Our funding sources increased with continued deposit growth and increased long term debt and short term borrowings.
Turning to the income statement overview on page five revenue increased $557 million from the second quarter with growth in net interest and non-interest income and we generated positive operating leverage as expenses declined.
As shown on page six we had strong broad based loan growth in the third quarter our 17th consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth.
Our core loan portfolio grew by $73.4 billion or 9% from a year ago and was up $17.1 billion from the second quarter.
Commercial loans grew $9.4 billion and consumer loans grew $7.7 billion from the second quarter.
Our total loan portfolio is balanced between commercial and consumer loans with commercial loans now 50% of our portfolio.
Our portfolio has become more balanced as we have experienced run off in our liquidating consumer portfolios and have growth our commercial portfolios through organic growth and acquisition.
On page seven we highlight the diversity of our loan growth.
C&amp;I loans were up $38 billion or 15% from a year ago the growth was diversified across our wholesale businesses with double digit year-over-year growth and asset backed finance corporate banking commercial real estate structured real estate and government and institutional banking.
Commercial real estate loans grew $12.8 billion or 10% from a year ago and included the second quarter of GE Capital transaction and organic growth.
Core 1-4 family first mortgage loans grew $15.3 billion or 7% from a year ago and reflected continued growth in high quality non-conforming mortgages.
Credit card balances were up $4 billion or 14% from a year ago benefitting from strong new account growth more active accounts and the Dillard’s portfolio acquisition in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Auto loans were up $3.9 billion or 7% from last year.
We had record new originations in the third quarter up 10% from a year ago reflecting the strong auto market while we have remained disciplined in our approach.
As highlighted on page eight we had $1.2 trillion of average deposits in the third quarter up $71.8 billion from a year ago and up $13.6 billion from the second quarter.
This growth was broad based across our commercial and consumer businesses.
Our average deposit cost was 8 basis points down 2 basis points from a year ago and stable with the second quarter.
We continued to successfully grow our primary consumer checking customers which were up 5.8% from a year ago and our primary small business and business banking checking customers increased 5%.
Page nine highlights our revenue diversification and the balance between spread and fee income.
Our earning asset mix results and diversified sources of interest income and the drivers of fee generation are diverse also.
We had strong equity gains in the third quarter comprising 9% of our fee income up from 5% last quarter and 7% a year ago.
Our total market sensitive revenue which includes trading and gains from debt and equity investments increased $210 million from second quarter but was down slightly from a year ago.
We grew net interest income $516 million or 5% from a year ago reflecting strong growth in loans and securities and by adding duration to the balance sheet.
The $187 million increase in net interest income from the second quarter reflected growth in investments and loans including the benefit from the GE Capital loan purchase and financing transaction related to commercial real estate assets that settled late in the second quarter.
Net interest income also reflected one additional day in the quarter accounting for about one third of the increase from the second quarter.
These benefits were partially offset by reduced income from variable sources including purchased credit impaired loan recoveries periodic dividends and loan fees.
The net interest margin declined 1 basis points from the second quarter.
The decline was due to customer driven deposit growth which reduced the margin by 3 basis points but had minimal impact to net interest income.
Lower income from variable sources also reduced the margin by 3 basis points these decreases were partially offset by balance sheet growth and repricing driven by security purchases and higher loan balances which benefited the margin by 5 basis points.
As I have discussed previously our view on interest rates has evolved over the past year to be more of a lower for longer expectation for both short term and long term rates.
As a result we’ve been adding duration to our balance sheet however our balance sheet remains asset sensitive and we are positioned to benefit from higher rates and we expect to be able to grow net interest income over the long term even if the rate environment continues to be challenging.
Total non-interest income increased $370 million from second quarter driven by higher equity gains other income deposit service charges and card fees.
Gains from equity investments were up $403 million from the second quarter reflecting strong results from venture capital private equity and other investments.
We recognized gains on more than 10 different holdings demonstrating the diversity of our equity portfolio and our long term commitment to this business.
Non-controlling interest reduced the impact of the equity gains through our net income and increased $120 million from the second quarter.
The other non-interest income category was up $406 million in the third quarter driven by the impact of lower interest rates on our long term our long term debt hedges.
As a reminder we required from an accounting perspective to measure the hedge effectiveness at the end of each quarter and while the net impact is generally expected to be zero over the life an instrument interest rate and currency volatility can cause this line item to vary from quarter to quarter.
Other income also increased from higher income on our equity method investments as well as the gain on our sale of warranty solutions which happened in the third quarter.
Mortgage banking revenue declined $116 million from the second quarter.
Origination volume of $55 billion was down 11% from the second quarter reflecting the expected seasonal slowdown in the purchase market but was up 15% from a year ago benefitting from a stronger housing market.
66% of originations were for purchases in the third quarter up from 54% in the second quarter.
We ended the quarter with a $34 billion application pipeline down 11% from the second quarter but up 36% from a year earlier.
Based on the current rate environment the level of our pipeline and the seasonal slowdown in the purchase market we currently expect originations in the fourth quarter to be lower than the third quarter.
Our production margin on residential held for sale mortgage originations was 188 basis points in the third quarter.
This ratio has been refined from how it was determined in prior quarters in an effort to provide investors with better information on a residential originate and sell business.
Based on our updated approach we currently expect our production margin in the fourth quarter to remain within the range of the past five quarters at 170 basis points to 195 basis points.
As shown on page 12 expenses were down $70 million from the second quarter.
The decline was primarily due to lower employee benefits from reduced deferred compensation expense which was largely offset in trading expenses also benefited from lower advertising expense and reduced insurance expense reflecting seasonally lower premium driven compensation costs in crop insurance.
We also made a $126 million contribution to the Wells Fargo Foundation which increased other non-interest expense.
Operating losses were stable from the second quarter but they remained higher than the five quarter average as we continued to have elevated litigation accruals for various legal matters.
We continued to invest in our businesses with particular focus on risk cyber and technology projects.
These investments partially reflected in higher outside professional services expense in the quarter.
Our efficiency ratio improved to 56.7% in the third quarter.
We are focussed on managing expenses partially reflected in the 27% reduction in travel and entertainment expense from a year ago as we reduced non-customer facing travel however we expect to operate at the higher end of our target efficiency ratio range of 55% to 59% for the full year 2015 and until our revenue benefits from higher rates we expect to remain at the upper end of that range.
Turning to our business segment starting on Page 13 community banking earned $3.7 billion in the third quarter up 7% from a year ago and up 10% from second quarter.
One of the drivers of our long-term growth is our ability to attract new households to Wells Fargo.
Year-to-date through August we’ve had the strongest new retail bank household growth in four years and during the third quarter we announced an initiative that makes the experience of opening an account easier for the millions of consumers which used to bank with us.
Our new and existing customers are increasingly using our digital offerings with active online customers up 8% and active mobile customers up 17% from a year ago.
We are growing our credit and debit card businesses through new customer growth and increased usage among existing customers.
Credit card purchase volume was $18 million up 15% from a year ago and debit card purchase volume was $71 million up 8% from a year ago.
Our Wells Brokerage and Retirement segment has been renamed Wealth and Investment management reflecting the realignment of our asset management business from wholesale banking into wealth and investment management.
We also moved our reinsurance business from wealth and investment management and our strategic auto investments from community banking into wholesale banking.
These changes are part of our regular course of business.
We are always looking for ways to better align our businesses deepen existing customer relationships and create a best-in-class structure to benefit both our customers and our shareholders.
For comparative purposes prior period segment results have been revised to reflect these changes.
Despite a challenging equity market environment wealth and investment management earned $606 million in the third quarter up 10% from a year ago and up 3% from the second quarter.
These results reflect a strong balance sheet growth and net interest income growing 18% from a year ago.
Average core deposits grew 6% from a year ago and loans grew 16% in the ninth consecutive quarter of double digit year-over-year growth.
Loan growth was driven by an increase in high quality non-conforming mortgage loans and security based lending.
Retail brokerage and managed account assets were flat from a year ago and down 6% from second quarter the length quarter declined reflected the weak equity markets.
As a reminder managed account asset fees are priced at the beginning of the quarter so fourth quarter fees will reflect the weaker September 30th market valuations.
Wholesale banking earned $1.8 billion in the third quarter down 8% from a year ago and 13% from second quarter.
The length quarter decline was driven by lower non-interest income primarily as a result of lower equity investment gains and reduced sales in trading and investment banking activity reflecting market volatility.
Balance sheet growth remained strong with average loan growth of 15% from a year ago.
This growth benefited from the GE Capital loan purchase related to commercial real estate assets that closed last quarter and also reflected broad based growth across most wholesale businesses.
Average core deposits grew 12% from a year ago.
Treasury management revenue continued to grow up 9% from a year ago driven by new sales of treasury management solutions.
Turning to Page 16 credit quality remained strong in the third quarter.
Our net charge-off rate was 31 basis points of average loans up slightly from second quarter primarily from seasonally higher auto losses.
Non-performing assets have declined for 12 consecutive quarters and were down $1.1 billion from the second quarter.
This improvement was broad based driven by improvements in our commercial and consumer real estate portfolios.
We did not have a reserve release in the third quarter; the first quarter was no reserve release since the first quarter of 2010.
While we continue to benefit from improvements in the performance of our residential real estate portfolio we also increased commercial reserves reflecting deterioration in the energy sector.
As a reminder only 2% of our total loans outstanding are in the oil and gas sector and we continue to work proactively with our customers as we manage through the current industry cycle.
We've started the fall redeterminations and reserve-based energy loans are performing as expected.
We believe the energy services sector will incur greater challenges in the near term as it adjusts to lower commodity prices and this view was reflected in our reserving process.
We’re also monitoring all loan types in MSAs where greater than 3% of employment is directly tied to oil production.
To date while we have not experienced measurable differences in the portfolio of performance between oil and non-oil communities overtime we would expect some co-related stress in communities that are dependant on oil and gas.
Future allowance levels whether they are higher or lower will be driven by a variety of factors including loan growth portfolio performance and general economic conditions.
Turning to Page 17 our capital level remains strong with our estimated common equity tier-1 ratio under Basel-3 fully phased in at 10.7% in the third quarter.
We returned $3.2 billion to shareholders in the third quarter through dividends and net share repurchases and our net payout ratio was 60%.
In summary our third quarter results demonstrated the benefit of our diversified business model with strong growth in loans and deposits and revenue growth reflecting higher net interest and higher non-interest income.
Our returns are among the best in the industry with an ROA of 132 basis points and an ROE of 12.62%.
Our strong liquidity and capital positions us well to serve our existing customers while growing our customer base organically and through acquisitions.
Let me conclude by highlighting the transactions we’ve announced over the past couple of weeks.
We summarized these announcements starting on slide 20.
As John mentioned earlier operating from a position of strength allows us to make quality acquisitions that help us serve more markets and meet more of our customer’s financial needs.
In connection with these transactions we’ve maintained our long standing discipline due diligence process and our strong capital position provides us with the capacity to acquire these businesses and assets.
I’ll start by highlighting the largest transaction which involves approximately $32 billion of assets.
Yesterday we announced an agreement to acquire GE Capital’s commercial distribution finance and vendor finance businesses as well as certain corporate finance loan and lease assets.
Over 600 Wells Fargo team members were involved in the evaluation and due diligence which occurred over the past few months.
This agreement provides us with a unique opportunity to add relationships and earning assets in businesses where GE Capital was an unequivocal market leader and where we either have meaningful experience or in the case of commercial distribution finance is a strong compliment to our existing capabilities.
These businesses have established in deep relationships with their customers and we are excited about the opportunity to enhance these relationships with the breadth of our product offerings.
These businesses are run by experienced teams with average tenures of over 20 years.
We will also benefit from the acquisition of GE Capital state of the art customer facing systems that will create efficiencies.
We expect this transaction to close in the first quarter of 2016 with minimal impact on our liquidity position.
Over the medium to long term we plan to fund the acquisition with anticipated growth and deposits and in the short term we will likely have to increase our borrowings to preserve our liquidity position.
Similar to the GE Capital transaction related to commercial real estate assets that closed in the second quarter the loans releases roughly 90% based in U.S.
and Canada will be recorded a fair value inclusive of a life time credit loss at close including transition cost related to integrating these businesses we expect this acquisition to be neutral to modestly accretive to our 2016 results.
At the end of September we also announced an agreement to acquire GE railcar services which is expected to close in the first quarter of 2016.
This transaction involves 77 000 railcars and just over 1000 locomotives as well as associated operating at long term leases that will be added to our existing First Union Rail business making us the second largest railcar and locomotive leasing company in North America.
Similar to GE Capital transaction that they completed earlier this year we were able to find a partner in this case a Berkshire Hathaway Company to agree to acquire the assets that did not align well with our business strategy.
This acquisition will add to the quality and diversification of our existing fleet and add to our capacity to meet the industries growing demand for railcars.
Just to summarize the timing related to our GE transactions our results this quarter include the impact from the GE Capital transaction related to commercial real estate assets that closed in the second quarter and we expect to close in the first quarter of 2016 the GE railcar transaction and the GE Capital transactions we announced yesterday.
John and I will now be happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Joe Morford with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon everyone -- good morning everyone.
Still too early.
Hi Joe good morning.
Just -- I guess following up first on the last comments about the GE Capital acquisitions just I guess curious to learn a little bit more about fit with the existing platform that you have where some of the synergies are.
And then any color you may be able to share in terms of the profitability of these businesses or the relative yields.
I guess I was a little surprised you're saying maybe only modest earnings accretion.
Is that due to some of the expenses you're bringing on with their staff and/or the higher near-term borrowing costs? So with respect to the first part of your question Joe the businesses line up well as we said the commercial distribution finance business is an asset based lending business that operates between OEMs on the one hand and the distributors on the other.
It will fit in Well Fargo alongside what we describe as Well Fargo Capital Finance our ABL business.
The GE team has leadership and speciality in their version of ABL lending but of course we’ve got the team that’s been together for 20 plus years in ABL and this will complement them nicely.
And as we mentioned the technology that they used to run their business is also something that we think we can benefit from in our broader business overtime.
The vendor finance business aligns well with our equipment finance business.
Our equipment finance business tends to focus on the users of equipment their equipment finance business has big relationships with OEMs who are selling equipment and so we think that they are very complimentary when put together.
With respect to the question about 2016 accretion we think there will be plenty of expenses in order -- people expenses technology integration expenses premises expenses perhaps another thing.
So we're focused on doing that integration the right way.
It's going to take some time.
We're going to be very thoughtful about it.
And we're more focused on the medium to long term impact than what this means in 2016.
Joe I've been around the acquisition game for a long time and what we typical have said in the past and this is probably truer with the depository that we look for accretion by year three.
It will happen sooner in this case because its not as complex but we have learned that to do these things well you practice on yourself not on your customers.
You get everything done right and we really look at this as John mentioned as a long-term value-add to the company.
So things that closed in the first quarter you bound to have expenses around integration to get this really done right.
Actually Joe you also asked about funding.
And that is part of the equation here.
We will be term funding components of this so it's not as easy as absorbing existing cash.
I think some of the early analyst reports have reflected that belief.
So we'll be layering in some term funding in advance of the assets coming on.
Then we'll have some incremental costs et cetera and we're trying to maintain our liquidity buffers through and after the addition of these assets.
So makes it a little bit more complicated than some of the math that I've seen so far.
Okay.
That's all really helpful.
I appreciate that color.
I guess the other question was just I recognize the equity investment gains this quarter really came from a number of different investments.
But any color on maybe what's a good run rate there or just maybe market sensitive revenues overall recognizing they were down a couple hundred million this quarter? In both cases I would look at something like a five-quarter average of equity gains on its own and then equity gains gains on debt and trading activities as well.
I think they're probably more representative of a run rate.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
You're welcome Joe.
Your next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking my questions.
You talked about the expenses being elevated with legal and last quarter there was about a $225 million increase.
Is that still the same number that's kind of embedded in the overall operating expenses this quarter? Marty there is going to be a run rate of what we had last quarter where we are this quarter probably for a period of time.
I mean each individual legal matter is its own thing and we can't comment on litigation.
But I would think of them as part of the environment that we're in and operating losses in total are probably going to remain about where they are.
If they begin to come back down that would be great.
But I wouldn't consider this to be outsized at call it $500 million for the quarter for total operating losses.
The other thing is that you look at wholesale banking that's where you see some of the pressures that we have seen in other banks with capital markets activities.
You had the reduction in the fee income but not much reduction in expenses.
You talked about compensation expenses going lower but were offset by losses.
Can you break those two things out so we can get a feel for the two components in the expense line? So I would expect the expenses that are directly related to revenue to generally especially over the course of the year to reflect their production of revenue might not be as linear from quarter to quarter as revenue moves up or down.
And that's been true for some time.
We have operating losses like a legal settlement for example that will temporarily elevate expenses in that business unit at the firm while they may remain elevated they don't necessarily remain elevated in wholesale banking or in any individual segment.
So I wouldn't expect for example compensation expenses cycle for the firm as a whole or for the division as a whole as a result of a one time in an operating loss.
But all told I would say that we pay for performance in that group.
Our total approach to performance based comp seems to hold very well with the revenue sources that we have and the operating and the results of the segment make sense to the cycle or frankly for any full year.
Thanks.
Any further duration extension on the assets structure given the outlook that rates will stay lower for longer? I appreciate.
Not much.
You can see that we added a few billion dollars of net securities to our investment portfolio.
We like where we are from an asset sensitivity standpoint today.
We're going to be adding these incremental assets that we talked about in connection with the GE portfolio some of which are leases so you think of them as a little bit longer term and fixed rate which will have the same impact as adding securities.
So we've slowed down a little bit in adding duration in the third quarter compared to the second quarter which I think you can see in the deck and we still have conviction that we're probably in a lower for longer rate scenario.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
I just wanted to follow-up on that last comment.
You believe you're in a lower for longer rate environment.
Do you think the U.S.
economy is getting better or worse I guess I'm hearing on the one hand John you're mentioning some additional confidence in some areas.
On the other hand you mentioned global economy is being the headwind so which is it? Is the U.S.
economy getting better or worse? Yes Mike it’s a good question.
I think – we think it's getting better but only incrementally better.
So as we – none of us know of course but this year the GDP in the U.S.
let's call it 2/1 maybe 2/2 maybe next year as maybe 2/5 something like that 2/4 to 2/5 so better but not substantially better.
You know us well so you know that most of our business is U.S.
centric but clearly some of our businesses that we support and do business with have a international component to them either sales or whatever the case is and the rest of the world the biggest risk I think the U.S.
economy is what's happening in the rest of the world I think that's unquestionable.
So – but better but not hugely better.
With respect to rates lower for longer applies.
We think of it is at the short end and the medium to long end of the curve and so the Fed starts moving rates in December or in the first quarter we will be sitting here a year from now we think with one two or three 25 basis point moves under our belt at probably best case with respect to how far things might move.
And unless there's meaningful inflation which isn't anybody's radar screen right than it doesn't feel like that's going to have an impact on long terms rates it feels like more of a flatter curve environment and long rates in the vicinity of where they are now and what something really different begins to emerge.
And of course like good news is for round about our forecast we performed better.
We're constructing ourselves to do well in this environment.
But if we end up in a higher short term or higher long-term rate environment than we're forecasting that's actually that's not good for Wells Forgo.
With that expectation are you taking the second look at expenses I mean your efficiency ratio this quarter moved in a better range but do you have a plan B to say we expect these headwinds to last for longer therefore we're going to do something extra? Yes.
I describe it as a full time plan B which is they were always looking a way to be more efficient.
We highlighted a couple of them over the last few quarters.
We took a hard look at T&amp;E a year ago.
We're down 25% year-over-year.
We've talked about our real estate strategy we where shrunk by 20 million square feet over the last few years and still have more to go.
As there are varieties of programs like that but most of that savings gets absorbed by areas where we're changing or improving the firm.
We're spending money on compliance on risk management on technology on innovation.
So I've got some conviction that we're not going to move below the higher end of our range while we're still in this lower rate environment because whatever savings we get by being thrifty we end up reinvesting into the programs that I mentioned.
Yes.
Just to put an emphasizes on that Mike expenses get a lot of discussion around here and we are keenly focus on them because as John mentioned he saved – and we think of it in ways of what will the customer pay for and what makes us a stronger long term provider of services to our customers and to be a more relevant company to all our constituents.
And you save in one side and you invest on the other side.
And some of those investments have been fairly significant.
But it’s a constant drumbeat around here.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you Mike.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning.
Just to follow-up on Joe's question.
John could you give us a sense of what the average yield of the 32 billion in GE assets that you're putting on and what the fee income generation was for last year? No.
Just because we haven't disclosed the yields on that portfolio but I can tell you Erika it looks a lot like our – like that portion of our own wholesale portfolio and I would add frankly that their approach to risk analysis of their loans looks like our risk analysis of their loans and their pricing on those loans looks like our pricing of similar loans.
So you should think of it as a component piece of what our wholesale banking outcomes look like.
And in fee generation is the question was GE generated in fees with those loans or what… Yes.
Or is that business that you're acquiring generated in fees? So the revenue streams of that business are more net interest income streams rather than fee streams.
I mean there are certainly loan fees but they get amortized into yield.
I can tell you in our own analysis of this and I'm sure in yours also as we look out over some period of time we can imagine a lot of other products and services that we'll be providing to the same customers that GE wasn't in a position to offer them directly so its part of the long-term value creation but there's isn't a run rate that in there today because GE was a primarily a lender rather than a full service provider of banking capabilities.
Got it.
And just wanted to get some clarification on your comments earlier because adding these assets have the same impact of extending duration on the asset side should we expect cash balances to stay relatively stable from the average balances of the third quarter? It depends on what's happening with deposit growth over the timeframe that we're talking about.
This is five or six months in the future so all things seeing equal but maybe you could say us and by cash – cash and HQLA are high quality liquid assets are interchangeable in some ways so I would look at the some of those things not just cash depending on how our rate view evolves and what goes on in terms of the opportunity to get more invested et cetera.
These are risk assets that's one sort of use of cash cash at the fed or cash in treasuries are two other related uses of cash so I don't want to over complicated but it’s a little bit different than just the cash balance.
Got it.
And just to sneak one last one in.
Your results clearly demonstrates your strength on your relationship for the consumer in the corporate side.
Given your balance sheet and capital strength and some difficult headlines that we are seeing from European bank how are you thinking in terms of your medium-term strategy to increase your market share with institutional clients given potential market shared dislocation and your strength in capital particularly in leverage capital? I wouldn't think of our medium term strategy any differentially than how you've seen us behave in the recent past in that area.
We have great relationships with our large number of institutional clients and counterparties and there are something interesting things to do but we've got high regard for our capital on our funding and real meaningful expectations for how we get paid for using it as we work on those relationship.
So we're already doing that from time to time something interesting will reveal itself and we'll consider it but there is no change in strategy that it’s going to result in us having a different risk profile or trying to fill our major vacuum that maybe being left behind by European bank or something else over the next few years.
Yes.
What you would liked about us in the past you like about us in the future regarding that.
Got it.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good morning.
Hi Eric.
Hi.
How are you? I just want to make sure that I'm fully understanding kind of what the key points of leverage are in the income statement as we look out into next year.
Obviously it seems like the biggest contributor as a revenue driver is asset growth stemming in part from these acquisitions but given sort of NIM commentary and the efficiency ratio commentary should we expect positive operating leverage into next year or more basically zero? Well we are always striving to generate positive operating leverage so that's a goal as we set out to plan for the coming period.
In terms of what happens it will be – it will reflect what we're primarily emphasizing which is the growth in relationships which leads to a growth in loans and a growth in deposit credit discipline and further penetration on all in our product areas with the customers that we have.
Other macro events sit on top of that with respect to where rates go et cetera tough to know.
And we're not as focused on that or can't be as focused on that because we can't control some of those outcomes.
So we're setting ourselves up to have expense discipline.
We're setting ourselves up to add relationships.
We're setting ourselves up to deliver into those relationships which you see in loans deposits and many of our product areas but how it lands in a given quarter is more difficult to forecast.
Eric we're enjoying some of the strongest growth years we have seen and what we describe as the core building blocks of long-term shareholder value creation relationship loans deposits depths of relationship new primary checking household growth.
And as John mentioned depending on the macro environment not all that shows up in that value creation the next quarter but over the long period or even the interim period that is – the best way we think to successfully grow and add to the things that are customers and our shareholders value.
No certainly.
So it sounds like than its basically top line led operating leverage stemming in part from continued shift in mix of revenue sources is that fair? Well we surely want the top line but we're watching the expenses were nothing goes on examined around here and we'll see how things turn out.
And if I can just do one quick follow-up on asset quality it sounds like from your commentary the go forward expectation should be for provision to roughly equal NCOs is that right? So it's up to forecast.
We've gone through five years of reserve releasing.
We've been saying for a few quarters that what's going to happened subsequently it's going to reflect loan growth portfolio performance and general economic outcomes.
Does that mean that we remain at a no release no provision level? That's too precise to forecast.
But it should if we grow our portfolio and the new assets look like the assets that we already have that we'll begin providing for those which could become more of net outcome as we're already had a generational low in terms of charge-offs which means that credit performance can't really improve meaningful from where we are today.
It's already that good.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Siefers with Sandler O'Neill.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
John I was hoping you could talk for a moment on some of the changes in the loan yields within the commercial buckets.
A few of them like commercial mortgage construction leasing they came under a little more pressure than I would have thought.
I imagine at least to a certain extent that's due to both the financing on the GE deals but was curious to get your color and thoughts on what might be going on there? Yes.
So I wouldn't think of that as attributable to those assets coming on.
It really has more to do with the variable sources that loan fees that sometimes accelerate that run through their PCI recoveries or other things that are more – that are harder to forecast in more one time so you see them changing these two yields and these two dates side by side but its not a general change in the inherent yield or the customer yield on the portfolio.
Okay.
All right.
That makes sense.
And then just one sort of nitpicky question.
Did you guys quantify anywhere the size of the gain from the Warranty Solutions business? I think when you announce it sold it for $150 million in cash but I wasn't sure where it had been recorded on the books? Yes.
It's less than a penny per share.
I don't think that we did put that anywhere but you're the first person to ask it so there you go.
All right.
Okay.
I think that’s' – I'm all set.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of David Hilder with Drexel Hamilton.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you.
I noticed what appeared to be reversal of prior deferred comp expenses and wondered what the reason for that was? I don't think if it is a reversal but every quarter our employee benefit expense on the one hand and our trading results on the other hand reflect the outcomes from our deferred comp approach.
Our employees voluntarily defer comp and we neutralize the outcomes for them and we provide that return and we do it on a hedged basis so that our results reflect.
When our equity markets go up our trading line goes up and our employ benefit expense goes up.
When equity markets move down not just to generalize the reverse is true.
In this quarter we had equity markets down.
We had trading revenue down and we had an equal amount of employee benefit expense down.
So it's really just the cyclical ebbs and flows of that program.
There's no change in approach or reversal of anything.
Great.
Thanks very much.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
How are you? Good morning.
Nancy good morning.
Two questions for you.
John when you did the initial GE portfolio acquisition I guess that was couple of quarters ago you said that you were going to continue to look at assets at GE and obviously you did.
I guess my question is GE going to continue to be keeps on giving I mean is there more there that you're looking at or is this sort of the end of the GE pot? So you may have seen the list in the paper today of the 13 announcements that they've had since they declared that they were going to wind down GE capital and three of those line items are attributable to our activity the commercial real estate the railcar and now the commercial businesses.
And we just incidentally we look very closely at many of the other things that look like they might have a fit for Wells Fargo and for one reason or another they were a better fit for somebody else either because of the asset type or the pricing scenario or something else.
I think this pretty much concludes their U.S.
business I think they've got some things to sell around the world and because of our U.S.
centric approach its probably true that we're not –we wouldn't be playing a role like the role that we played in these three on those future acquisitions.
Now having said that we've been advisor in some of these other transactions we've been a lender to a winning bidder in some of these other transactions.
There maybe other things to do.
But in the way we've approach these three businesses that were of these three portfolios that we're acquiring.
I don't think there is more of that coming from GE capital.
My second question would be whether the integration of this latest large business from GE is basically going to preclude you from looking at other possible asset portfolios et cetera at other companies due to the funding issues? Yes Nancy I would answer it this way never is a really definitive word but I'd say on the other hand the focus right here now is to do this and do it really well.
This is a lot to say grace over.
We have lots of experiences in acquisitions.
We're going to treat this as a merger doing it well provide huge benefits to all those involved and that's job 1 job 2 and job 3 right now I do this really well.
IF you guys could just clarify I mean you're going – are you going to be moving people how is this physically going to work? These businesses are primarily headquartered in the Chicago area and the Dallas area and nothing about that is intent to change.
So there maybe some opportunity to -- for their people in the field to team up with our people in the field but the bulk of the people will remain doing what they're doing right where they're doing and we'll figure out how to help how to improve how to optimize but not a big migration.
Yes we have real estate and locations and people on the Wells side in both those locations so… Okay.
All right.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you Nancy.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question will come from the line of John Pancari with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Hey John.
Back to the loan yield topic just based on your answer there is it -- are you implying that that commercial yield decline of 15 basis points that we saw this quarter could actually snap back next quarter? No it depends on what happens with resolutions with prepayments that accelerate loan fees into yield etcetera so it could.
I'd say as a general matter based on where we are in the cycle there are fewer resolutions fewer PCI windups today and I wouldn't expect.
We're not making bad loans anymore so we're buying them for that matter in quite that way.
So I would expect that type of accounting to quiet down and more reflect the amortization of loan fees into yield and then of course the acceleration of those when loans prepay.
We are in the higher commercial loan prepayment environment probably just because things are so liquid.
But I wouldn't expect it to snapback but it certainly could increase a little bit move around etcetera.
Okay.
And then one other thing on the margin the swaps I just want to get an idea of how much the swaps benefited the margin in the quarter and then also your appetite to add incremental swaps? So we don't break out what the swaps benefit is to the margin as we have described our approach to adding duration to the balance sheet for everyone's benefit a portion of that’s been done by swapping floating rate loans defect which has very similar impact to adding fixed rate securities to the portfolio.
We don't anticipate a lot more of that activity.
Today I mentioned in response to one of the earlier questions that we think we are about where we need to be from an asset sensitivity perspective that could change its deposit flows ebb and flow and we could end up with a lot of more liquidity to deploy but at the moment I think we're – we like where we are from an asset sensitivity point of view and so we probably won't be moving rapidly down the path toward meaningfully growing the securities portfolio today or for swapping more floating rate loans.
Okay.
And then lastly just on the credit side on energy just want to see if you are in a position to quantify your energy reserve right at this point and then also your criticized ratio in energy lending? We don't breakout the components of the allowance.
But I can tell you that our approach through the first and second redetermination dates since the price of crude moved down meaningfully has been from my observation a conservative approach.
We're re-rating credits down before waiting for information from borrowers based on what we know about relationship and trying to get ahead of this.
So well frankly as I mentioned in the services space we could continue to see more negative migration or even some meaningful negative migration in the industry.
We feel great about where we are from allowance perspective in the energy space where we stand today.
But we don't break out the component pieces of the allowances.
Okay.
Thanks.
One more very quick one on that topic.
The AFS portfolio with oil and gas bonds I think you indicated a couple quarters back that it was around $1.5 billion.
Is it still around that amount? I don't have the total in front of me but I can tell you which is part of your question actually 1.4 is the number.
We took some OTTI in the quarter in that space.
Those are of the corporate names in that portfolio energy names were the ones that were most under water for the longest period of time which certainly a part of our review for other than temporary impairment and in the quarter in our results reflects taking those impairments through the P&amp;L.
So we feel good about our bases in those assets.
Got it.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our final question will come from the line of Paul Miller with FBR.
Please go ahead.
Yes thank you very much.
Most of my questions have been answered.
But on the jumbo loan market it's one of the areas I think if you're not number one I think you are number one but we're seeing more and more market share go to the jumbo markets.
Can you add more color around that? And then in the loans that you put in your portfolio my guess is most of them are jumbos.
And where do you feel that you're going to be filled up there? So the loans that we put up as single family mortgage loans that we put on our balance sheet virtually all of them are prime jumbo loans because as you know there is no secondary market for those loans so to serve those customers we end up keeping them.
You know frankly we – there is no magical numbers in terms of when we are full.
Our total single family real estate portfolio hasn’t shrunk or grown in the aggregate over the last few years meaningfully the level stayed about the same but we’ve have home equity paying off.
We've had pick-a-pay paying off we’ve had other lower quality loans winding down and prime jumbo loans winding up a little bit.
And I guess I would anticipate that to continue as jobs are stronger and housing is stronger there are more people looking at those types of homes requiring those types of loans and only a balance sheet lender can provide that loan because there’s no place in size for a mortgage company or any place else to go.
There is no government program and there is no private label market.
I’d also add this Paul that as a percentage even though the overall real estate present real estate totals have not changed the quality has improved significantly and while the totals were the same since we’ve grown our loans the percentage of those loans as a percentage of our overall portfolio loan portfolio is down and those jumbos also tend to have a bit – they tend to turn over a bit because they have a little less duration because those folks tend to move more often and so forth.
So and these are for our very best customers and it’s – and we are – we should be like that asset class.
Okay guys.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This concludes the call.
Thank you all for joining us.
We always appreciate your interest and involvement and again for all the questioners.
We will see you here three months from now; it will be 2016 reflecting our fourth quarter earnings.
So thank you very much.
Bye bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for participating.
And you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Rowe you may begin your conference.
Thank you Regina and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today where our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf; and our CFO John Shrewsberry will discuss fourth quarter results and answer your questions.
This call is being recorded.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that our fourth quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at Wellsfargo.com.
I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.
Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced including the reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can also be found in our SEC filings in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website.
I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning and happy New Year.
Thank you for joining us today.
Our strong performance in 2015 reflected the benefit of our diversified business model and our focus on the real economy.
Our contribution to the real economy in 2015 was broad-based and included originating $213 billion in residential mortgage loans $31 billion of auto loans almost in $19 billion in new loan commitments to our small business customers who primarily have less than $20 million in annual revenue $34 billion of middle market loans and $29 billion of commercial real estate loans.
We're active in facilitating the payments that drive economic activity across the country with over $280 billion of debit card purchase volume $70 billion of consumer credit card purchase volume and $25 billion of commercial card spend volume in 2015.
We also contribute to the communities we serve in many other ways that are not directly reflected in our financial results but are just as important to our success.
For example we've had the nation's number one United Way campaign for six consecutive years.
Let me highlight a few of our other accomplishments during the past year.
We generated earnings of $23 billion and earnings per share of $4.15.
We grew revenue and pretax pre-provision profit.
Our financial strength and competitive position have enabled us to capture opportunities for loan growth organically and through acquisitions with average loans up $51 billion from a year ago a 6% increase.
Our deposit franchise once again generated strong customer and balance growth with average deposits up $80 billion or 7% from a year ago and we grew the number of primary consumer checking customers by 5.6%.
Our credit results continued to be very strong with our net charge-off rate declining to 33 basis points for the year.
However since we did not have any reserve release in the second half of the year our provision expense increased $1 billion compared with a year ago.
Our capital levels increased even as we returned more capital to shareholders our fifth consecutive year of increased returns.
We returned $12.6 billion to our shareholders through common stock dividends and net share repurchases in 2015.
Turning to the economic environment while parts of the global economy have continued to experience stress and the markets have reacted negatively in the early weeks of 2016 domestic economic conditions remain generally favorable.
As you know Wells Fargo is a U.S.-centric company and the strength and diversity of the U.S.
economy benefited our results in 2015.
The economy continues to advance with strong job creation including 70 consecutive months of gains in private payrolls the longest run ever recorded.
While falling energy prices have hurt certain sectors of the U.S.
economy most consumers and many businesses are benefiting from lower power costs which results in more discretionary cash that can be used for other purposes.
Auto vehicle sales were the best ever in 2015 and Wells Fargo originated a record number of auto loans during the year.
If gas prices continue to remain low 2016 should be another strong year for the auto market.
The housing market also continued its steady improvement with price appreciation of 6% helping homeowners build equity and improving the credit quality of our consumer real estate portfolio where net charge-offs were down 44% from a year ago.
While December housing data is not yet available 2015 appears to be the best year for home sales and housing starts since 2007.
Inventories of homes for sale remain historically low providing a tailwind for building activity into 2016.
Commercial real estate appreciation has been even stronger than consumer real estate and vacancy rates for nearly all property types continue to decline.
For apartments vacancy rates are at historic lows which should benefit both construction activity and pricing in 2016.
Finally the building blocks of our long term growth increasing our customer base deepening relationships and growing loans and deposits continue to be the foundation of our success.
I am excited about opportunities to continue to build on these growth drivers in the year ahead as our team members remain focused on satisfying all of our customer's financial needs.
John Shrewsberry our Chief Financial Officer will now provide more details on our results.
John? Thank you John and good morning everyone.
My comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly supplement starting on page 2.
John and I will then answer your questions.
We had another quarter of solid results.
While our fourth quarter earnings were the same as a year ago the fourth quarter of 2014 had the benefit of a credit reserve release and the gain from the sale of our government guaranteed student loan portfolio our results this quarter demonstrated momentum across a variety of key business drivers.
Compared with a year ago we continued to have strong loan and deposit growth throughout our diversified commercial and consumer businesses.
We grew revenue and pretax pre-provision profit.
We had positive operating leverage as our expenses declined.
Credit quality remained strong with net charge-offs of 36 basis points of average loans and we continued to have strong liquidity and capital levels.
Now let me highlight these key drivers in more detail.
On page 3 we show the strong year-over-year growth John highlighted including growing revenue pretax pre-provision profit loans deposits and earnings per share.
These results are even more impressive when you consider some of the headwinds we faced in 2015 while we continued to invest in our business.
For example loan loss reserve releases declined from $1.6 billion in 2014 to $450 million in 2015.
The sustained low rate environment and our disciplined redeployment of our strong deposit growth reduced our margin by 12 basis points.
We continued to invest in risk management related activities and these expenses were up 12% compared with 2014.
We strengthened our balance sheet with increased liquidity and capital levels.
Turning to page 4 we grew earning assets 3% from third quarter with loans short term investments and investment securities all increasing.
Our funding sources increased with continued deposit growth and increased long term debt and short term borrowings.
Long term debt increased $14.3 billion with $17.8 billion of issuances including debt related to funding the previously announced GE Capital acquisitions.
The debt we issued during the quarter had a weighted average maturity of about eight years at a cost of approximately three-month LIBOR plus 70 basis points.
However $10.5 billion of these issuances have a shorter maturity and become eligible for prepayment during the first half of 2016.
By beginning to pre-fund the GE Capital acquisitions we were able to maintain our strong liquidity position and our healthy level of dry powder to fund prospective balance sheet growth while retaining the flexibility to pre-pay a significant portion of the debt should we determine it is no longer needed.
Turning to the income statement overview on page 5 revenue declined $289 million from third quarter as growth in net interest income was offset by lower non-interest income primarily due to the higher level of equity investment gains in the third quarter.
As shown on page 6 we had continued strong broad-based loan growth in the fourth quarter.
We've now achieved year-over-year loan growth for 18 consecutive quarters.
Our core loan portfolio grew by $62.8 billion or 8% from a year ago and was up $15.4 billion from the third quarter.
Commercial loans grew $9.3 billion and consumer loans grew $6.1 billion from the third quarter.
We did not acquire any loan portfolios in the fourth quarter so the linked quarter growth was all organic.
The GE Capital transactions that we announced last quarter will start to be reflected in our first quarter results.
The GE Railcar Services transaction with $4.1 billion of loans and leases closed on January 1 making us the largest railcar operating lessor in North America.
We anticipate the North American-based portion about 90% of the approximately $31 billion of assets we expect to acquire from GE Capital to close late in the first quarter with the remainder expected to close in the second quarter.
We're looking forward to having many talented and experienced people from these businesses join our team.
Page 20 in the appendix has additional updates on these transactions.
On page 7 we highlight the diversity of our loan growth.
C&amp;I loans were up $28.1 billion or 10% from a year ago.
The growth was diversified across our wholesale businesses with double-digit growth in commercial real estate asset-backed finance corporate banking equipment finance structured real estate and government and institutional banking.
Core 1-4 family first mortgage loans grew $15.9 billion or 8% from a year ago and reflected continued growth in high quality nonconforming mortgage loans.
Commercial real estate loans grew $13.6 billion or 10% from a year ago and included the second quarter GE Capital acquisition in organic growth.
Auto loans were up $4.2 billion or 80% from last year.
We continued to benefit from a strong auto market while we remained disciplined in our approach to credit and pricing.
Other revolving credit and installment loans were up $3.3 billion or 9% from a year ago with growth in securities-based lending personal lines and loans and student loans.
Credit card balances were up $2.9 billion or 9% from a year ago benefiting from new account growth and strong growth in active accounts as we experienced better activation rates on new accounts and more active users among our existing customers.
As highlighted on page 8 we had $1.2 trillion of average deposits in the fourth quarter up $67 billion or 6% from a year ago.
Our average deposit cost was 8 basis points down 1 basis point from a year ago and stable with third quarter.
We've stated that we believe deposit betas will be lower at least initially during this rate cycle and -- lower than they have been in past periods of rising rates.
Indications since the rate move in December support this.
However we continue to monitor the market to ensure we remain competitive for our customers while maintaining our disciplined relationship-based pricing strategy.
This relationship focus has resulted in strong primary customer growth with the primary consumer checking customers up 5.6% from a year ago and our primary small business and business banking checking customers up 4.8% Primary customers are over twice as profitable as non-primary customers.
Page 9 highlights Wells Fargo's revenue diversification and the balance between spread and fee income.
Over the past year as we benefited from balance sheet growth we've been able to grow net interest income by 4% while noninterest income has been relatively stable compared with a year ago.
As a result net interest income generated just over half of our revenue in the fourth quarter.
We grew net interest income $408 million from a year ago even as the net interest margin declined 12 basis points.
The $131 million increase in net interest income from third quarter reflected growth in earning assets and higher income from variable sources including periodic dividends loan recoveries and fees.
Net interest income also benefited modestly from the increase in interest rates late in the quarter.
These benefits were partially offset by reduced income from seasonally lower balances of mortgages held-for-sale and increased interest expense from higher debt balances.
The net interest margin declined 4 basis points from the third quarter.
Income from variable sources improved the margin by 2 basis points but was offset by customer-driven deposit growth which reduce the margin by 3 basis points with a minimal impact on net interest income.
All other repricing growth and mix reduced the margin by another 3 basis points driven largely by increased debt balances including the funding related to the GE Capital transactions that I mentioned earlier on the call.
We demonstrated our ability to grow net interest income which was up 4% from a year ago through balance sheet growth even in the challenging rate environment during 2015.
On a full-year basis we believe we can increase net interest income in 2016 compared with 2015 in part due to the December rate increase and also from anticipated balance sheet growth.
If there are additional rate increases during 2016 we would expect our net interest income growth for 2016 to be higher than the 4% growth rate we achieved in 2015.
Total noninterest income declined $420 million from third quarter primarily driven by lower equity gains.
Gains from equity investments were $423 million in the fourth quarter which were in line with the quarterly average over the past two years.
Equity gains declined 6% in full year 2015 compared with 2014.
And considering the current market conditions in our pipeline we would expect continued declines in 2016.
The volatile markets we've had so far this year could also impact our results in capital markets related businesses including investment banking and trading and may also affect the asset-based valuations and transaction volumes in our market-driven businesses including retail brokerage asset management and trust.
We had linked quarter growth in a number of our businesses including investment banking card fees commercial real estate brokerage and mortgage banking.
Mortgage banking revenue increased $71 million from third quarter.
Origination volume of $47 billion was down 15% from third quarter reflecting the expected seasonal slowdown in the purchase market but was up 7% from a year ago benefiting from a stronger housing market.
We ended the quarter with a $29 billion application pipeline down 15% from third quarter but up 12% from a year ago.
Our production margin on residential held-for-sale mortgage originations was 183 basis points in the fourth quarter down from 188 basis points in the third quarter.
Mortgage origination revenue in the fourth quarter benefited from $128 million repurchase reserve release as we resolved certain exposures and revised liability assumptions.
Higher mortgage origination revenue also reflected stronger multi-family mortgage activity in the fourth quarter.
Other income declined $214 million from third quarter driven by the impact of higher period end interest rates on our debt hedging results and the sale of Warranty Solutions last quarter which benefited third quarter income.
There are also a few linked quarter changes in some fee categories that were not driven by business activity.
Merchant processing fees as reported declined $182 million linked quarter.
These fees are now reported in other income as a result of an accounting change which was P&amp;L neutral.
The increase in gains from trading activities this quarter was due to higher deferred compensation gains which are offset in employee benefits and are also P&amp;L neutral.
As shown on page 12 expenses were stable with the third quarter and we remain focused on expense management.
There are a few items to highlight that impacted the linked quarter trend in some specific categories.
The increase in employee benefits expense reflected $319 million of higher deferred comp expense which was primarily offset in trading revenue.
Operating losses were down $191 million from third quarter from lower litigation accruals while foreclosed asset expense declined $89 million due to commercial real estate recoveries.
Also third quarter expenses included a $126 million contribution to the Wells Fargo Foundation.
A number of our expenses are typically higher in the fourth quarter.
Equipment expense was up $181 million primarily due to annual software license renewals.
Outside professional services increased $164 million which included higher project-related spending.
Advertising expenses were also elevated up $49 million.
While these typically higher fourth quarter expenses should be lower next quarter as usual we will have seasonally higher personnel expenses in the first quarter reflecting incentive compensation and employee benefits expense.
Our efficiency ratio was 57.8% for the full year 2015 and we currently expect to operate at the higher end of our efficiency ratio range of 55% to 59% for the full year 2016.
Turning to our business segments starting on page 13 community banking earned $3.3 billion in the fourth quarter down 1% from a year ago and down 7% from third quarter.
We continue to grow the number of retail bank households we serve and we're focused on building lifelong relationships with our customers by providing them with exceptional customer service.
In fact we were ranked number one in customer satisfaction in the national bank category according to the 2015 American Customer Satisfaction Index.
We're growing our credit and debit card businesses through new customer growth and increased usage among existing customers.
Debit card purchase volume was $73 billion in the fourth quarter up 8% from a year ago and credit card purchase volume was $18.9 billion up 12% from a year ago.
Our credit card penetration of retail banking households increased to 43.4% in the fourth quarter up from 41.5% a year ago.
We received the highest ranking in Corporate Insight assessment of credit card issuer rewards redemption options and just this week we launched a new Propel American Express card with no annual fee.
Our customers are also increasingly using our digital offerings with active online customers up 7% and active mobile customers up 14% from a year ago.
To better support our customers as they grow their companies we've moved business banking and merchant payment services which were previously included within community banking to wholesale banking.
For comparative purposes prior periods segment results have been revised to reflect this realignment.
Wholesale banking earned $2.1 billion in the fourth quarter stable from a year ago and up 9% from third quarter.
The linked quarter growth reflected higher net interest and noninterest income.
The increase in fee income was driven by investment banking and gains from the sale of equity fund investments driven by Volker as well as commercial real estate related businesses such as Eastdil Secured our commercial real estate brokerage and advisory business Multifamily Capital and structured real estate.
Revenue also benefited from continued balance sheet growth with average loans up 13% from a year ago the fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year growth.
Average deposits grew 6% from a year ago.
We remain disciplined in our deposit pricing for our wholesale customers and we're focused on relationship-based pricing for both deposits and loans.
Wealth and investment management earned $595 million in the fourth quarter up 15% from a year ago and down 2% from third quarter.
Growth from a year ago was driven by a positive operating leverage with expenses down 2% and revenue up 1%.
Revenue reflected strong balance sheet growth with net interest income up 15% from a year ago.
Average deposits grew 7% from a year ago and average loans grew 15% the 10th consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year loan growth.
Loan growth was broad-based with strong client demand across a number of product offerings including high-quality nonconforming mortgage loans commercial loans and securities-based lending.
Retail brokerage managed account assets were up 3% from third quarter and down 1% from a year ago.
The decline from a year ago reflected lower market valuations which were partially offset by positive flows.
Turning to page 16 credit quality remains strong demonstrating the benefit of our diversified portfolio.
Our net charge-off rate was 36 basis points of average loans.
Net charge-offs increased $128 million from third quarter reflecting $90 million of higher losses in our oil and gas portfolio which totaled $118 million in the fourth quarter and seasonally higher consumer losses.
The performance of our consumer real estate portfolios which are 36% of our loans outstanding continue to benefit from the improving housing market.
Nonperforming assets have declined for 13 consecutive quarters and were down $497 million from third quarter driven by improvements in our commercial and consumer real estate portfolios and a $342 million reduction in foreclosed assets.
Oil and gas non-accruals were $843 million up $277 million from third quarter.
However as of yearend over 90% of our nonaccrual oil and gas loans were current on interest payments.
We didn't have a reserve release or build in the fourth quarter as the improvement in our residential real estate portfolios was offset by higher commercial reserves reflecting the impact from our oil and gas portfolio.
Total loans in our oil and gas portfolio were down 6% from a year ago and are now less than 2% of total loans outstanding.
We continue to work closely with our customers and are monitoring market conditions and we have reset borrowing base determinations twice since energy prices started to decline in late 2014.
However as we've mentioned in the past it takes time for losses to emerge and at current price levels we would expect to have a higher oil and gas losses in 2016.
We've considered the challenges within the energy sector in our allowance process throughout 2015 and approximately $1.2 billion of the allowance was allocated to our oil and gas portfolio.
It's important to note that the entire allowance is available to absorb credit losses inherent in the total loan portfolio.
We've also consider the impact of lower energy prices on our debt and equity securities portfolio and had approximately $130 million of OTTI-related write-downs in our energy-related holdings in the quarter.
Turning to page 17 our capital levels remained strong with our estimated Common Equity Tier I ratio fully phased in at 10.7% in the fourth quarter well above the regulatory minimum and buffers in our internal -- and buffers -- regulatory and minimum in buffers and our internal buffer.
Our strong capital generation positioned us well for the acquisitions we announced in 2015 and for returning more capital to shareholders.
We returned $3.2 billion to shareholders in the fourth quarter through common stock dividends and net share repurchases and our net payout ratio was 59%.
In summary our fourth quarter and full-year results demonstrated the benefit of our diversified business model with strong growth in loans and deposits and consistent earnings.
We continued to invest in our businesses grew capital and liquidity and maintained a strong risk culture.
We're excited about the opportunities ahead and expect our customer base to grow both organically and through acquisitions including from the customers and platforms we're acquiring from GE Capital in 2016.
We remain focused on satisfying our new and existing customer's financial needs.
John and I will now answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
If we could just circle back on some of the energy comments maybe get the exact underlying balances.
You said first on the energy loans less than 2% of your total loan book.
If you have that exact number? And then same thing in terms of some of the fixed income and equity exposure just to have a sense of the gross energy risk in those three buckets? Yes.
So I would use $17 billion as outstandings for energy loans.
And for securities call it $2.5 billion which is the sum of AFS securities and nonmarketable securities.
Okay.
And then just remind us on the lending side the mix of investment grade versus non-investment grade or unrated? Yes.
I would -- of the $17 billion -- actually the first cut I would give you is upstream midstream services because I think that's germane.
And I'd tell you that's about one-half upstream and one quarter services and one quarter midstream.
And I think for that cut we've separated out our investment grade component.
So that what we're focused on are really the -- call it the BB and down middle market private clients.
Okay.
And I'm sorry of the $17 billion how much of that piece that you are focused on? Well we're focused on the whole thing.
Half of those customers -- one-half of those balances represent E&amp;P companies upstream companies.
One quarter of them represent oilfield services companies and one quarter of them represent pipelines and storage and other midstream activity.
And it excludes what I would describe as investment grade -- diversified the larger cap companies where we don't view their credit exposure as quite the same.
Okay.
And is this more-- Not much of that to begin with.
Okay.
And then just more broadly speaking I mean obviously is a very balanced loan portfolio and as you mentioned consumer-heavy if anything.
But any thoughts on how much more improvement there is still to come on the consumer side? And assuming maybe the macro either holds or just has a soft patch overall is there still some embedded improvement that we could see I guess really in the real estate portfolios on the consumer side? Well I mean our outlook for housing in 2016 is actually pretty strong.
We've got a little bit more supply coming in.
You've got more household formation.
We're going to have a four handle on unemployment before you know it and we've got low rates.
So if that continues to be true that's probably a continued tailwind in terms of some of the drivers of the estimation of embedded loss on the consumer real estate side of the loan portfolio.
And without putting a number on it because you only know it when you get there I think that's supportive.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Just a follow-up on the energy question you indicated during the prepared remarks that over 90% of the portfolio is current and that you've reset two times.
But if prices stay where they are today you'd have higher losses in 2016.
I just wanted to understand maybe give us a sense of -- as oil price comes down here what kind of rate of change we should be expecting as we're building out the model in 2016 for provisions? Can I make one correction to your set up there which is-- Yes.
Over 90% of nonperforming oil and gas loans are performing.
All of the other ones are performing.
In terms of rate of change when we think about the allowance that we have today frankly we could imagine prices not improving from where they are today.
And so the rate of change of how loans actually move to loss reflects a lot of things and it's not just price.
And we just described for Matt the distribution of upstream midstream services and each of them behave differently.
We've got customers that are oil or gas heavy depending on what their business model.
It looks a little bit different basin by basin around the country and by method of extraction as well.
So there's a lot more to what losses are going to look like in 2016 than just the spot price or the expected near forward price of crude.
Having said that we've sensitized it such that we're sitting here at -- in the $30 area a year from now and believe that our allowance accurately or appropriately reflects the loss content that we may have.
And Betsy just to add we have some of the most skilled people 250 or so folks who have been in this industry a long time have seen changes and we're big time focused on this.
But as Matt just asked a few minutes ago we also should step back and look at the entire portfolio.
And when you have 36% of your loans as John mentioned in residential real estate a small improvements there is huge for this company.
All portfolios are important but I just want to make sure we look at this in perspective.
Right absolutely.
I just wanted to understand how you're thinking about that reserve because roughly 7% it's one of the higher ones we've heard of.
So I'm expecting that you are not just using the forward curve on oil to set your reserving levels.
That's correct.
We're using the idiosyncratic customer by customer circumstances including the things that I mentioned.
And their individual leverage activity what's going on customer by customer.
Yes.
Because I mean the question has been as the oil price goes down and then you get closer extraction costs and your reserves go negative.
How do you deal with that kind of environment? And I'm just wondering how much of that you've already priced into the reserve that you've got? We think it's appropriate for the risk that we have embedded in the portfolio the prices that we're living with today and can imagine into the future and as I've said the sum of the circumstances of each one of our borrowers.
And when you add it up it's a little -- it would appear to be a little bit heavier than some of the others who have reported.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
On the energy side again just do you have the criticized energy ratio for that portfolio? And then separately just getting to that sensitivity question if we did see oil pull into the $20s and stay there $20 to $25 range can you give us just an idea of how the magnitude of the increase and the loss migration under that scenario? Sure.
So criticized assets today or at the end of the quarter in that portfolio are about 38% of outstandings.
And there isn't a simple way to dimension what the change would be in losses based on some other future price income.
As I mentioned to Betsy we're sensitizing our portfolio based on a continuation of very very very low oil prices the context of where we're today rather than an upward sloping curve in addition to scenarios that include an upward sloping curve and we're comfortable with the amount of coverage that we have today.
That's how I'd think about it.
Yes.
Okay.
All right and then separately on the spread revenue side you indicated that net interest income should grow -- it could exceed the 4% growth that you saw in 2015 if you get hikes.
How many hikes are you assuming and how much greater than the 4% could it be? Yes.
So we've got a one hike two hike three hike and four hike scenario that we're operating with because like you we can't say for sure what's going to happen.
We've done a -- we worked very hard to produce the type of net interest income growth that we have in a no hike environment for the last several years.
So we'll see what the future holds because it feels a little bit different every day.
But if we got three or four hikes could we end up in mid to high single-digit percentage growth rates for net interest income? That math would pencil out.
But it's going to be a function of organic loan growth closing on our GE portfolios that we've been talking about and then the number of hikes that come and when they come.
Okay.
Then lastly what would that mean in terms of the margin outlook if you do get -- under those hike scenarios with-- Yes well it begins to expand.
Another way of thinking about it is I wouldn't expect it to begin to expand until continued hikes begin to layer in.
Particularly as we've said while we're -- we've pre-funded a little bit of debt so that we're in a great position to close on these assets that we're acquiring.
So that's a little bit of a margin headwind.
That has to -- those loans have to hit the books so that that burns off.
And then we need to have -- first a 25 basis point move while important and symbolic doesn't really do much.
Even though we've been very slow to react or appropriately slow to react in terms of our own deposit pricing activity it's the subsequent ones that would have a meaningful impact on margin.
And having said all that what we're really focused on is growing dollars of net interest income and the balance sheet structural issues as we have rapid deposit growth or funding activity etcetera have an impact on the margin but it's about dollars for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
On the efficiency guide for full-year 2016 at the upper end of your 55% to 59% range you noted that for the full year 2015 you were at 57.8%.
And I'm wondering if you could walk us through the puts and takes in terms of operating leverage staying flat? And also to follow up with John's question how many interest rate hikes is that upper end of the 55% to 59% range on efficiency embed? So in terms of puts and takes and 2015 versus 2016 we're still in an elevated time for what I would describe as compliance risk management technology including cyber-related spend.
We're still in an elevated time of product development and sort of offensive related spend.
And so I think that that's part of what guides us to this higher end for the time being.
One notable difference in 2016 versus 2015 I'm not sure if anybody else has focused on this in their calls but we also have this new incremental FDIC insurance surcharge every bank over $10 billion in assets.
And that's worth $480 million pre-tax to Wells Fargo for its partial year impact in 2016.
So we're all going to have something like that for the next year or two while that works its way through.
So I would think about that.
And that begins I think in Q2 of 2016.
And then if it's enacted in its current form which it's anticipated to be.
So if we have two or three moves in 2016 by the Fed and if they happen ratably throughout the course of the year that incremental revenue will have a beneficial impact on efficiency ratio.
But it -- I don't know that it drives us below the middle of the range.
So I think the range is still appropriate.
We'll probably focus more on that and the other targets that we give you in our May Investor Day.
There's a little bit of time between now and then to really set the course for the next couple of years that reflect the environment that reflect the balance sheet structure that we have that reflect our expense profile.
But I still feel like it's appropriate to think about the higher end of the range so the 57% to 59% for this year unless it rates really really begin to move which seems hard to imagine sitting here at this moment.
And Erika how we think about expenses around here is that we're pretty tight-fisted when it comes to making sure that the expenses the investments we do make have shareholder benefits to them.
As John mentioned defensive offensive we're spending a lot of money in compliance cyber and on the other hand we're spending also a lot of money on items and issues and things that create convenience for customers mobile payments and a whole bunch of other things.
And we always try to take a long term view.
But there's a lot of discussion that takes place about managing expenses and making sure that the investments we're making do have a long term pay off for us.
And just I heard you loud and clear in terms of the proportion of your energy exposure relative to the consumer side.
But my question on this is really on CCAR.
I'm wondering did you get enough color back from your regulators in terms of how oil and gas losses were stressed in the 2015 CCAR and how that level is comparing to the base case right now that's embedded in your reserve? I think that the next question for investors is a worry that while everybody seems appropriately -- could be appropriately reserved for actual that there could be an exorbitant amount of stress applied to that portfolio in the 2016 CCAR? It's certainly possible.
We haven't gotten those instructions for that specific scenario analysis yet.
Separately it won't surprise you that we're very transparent spend a lot of time talking with the regulatory community about what's going on in energy.
They are fully aware of how our portfolio works.
But as you mentioned at the beginning of that statement it's important to remember that we're talking about 2% of a $920 billion loan portfolio.
So they know that.
We know that and the math benefits from that.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Carcache with Nomura Securities.
Please go ahead.
Does the decision by one of your large competitors to pass the 25 basis point increase through to their commercial depositors influence at all how you guys view the degree to which you and others in the industry will benefit from higher rates? So it depends.
I mean our wholesale teams -- and there are -- each of the different customer segment relationship teams provides a different set of insight onto what their competitive set is doing.
There are some banks who I think sounds like anyway are being a little quicker to raise deposit rates.
And in the wholesale space there we're competing on -- we're competing on service we're competing on product.
We're competing on a lot of things.
And at the margin there's also the impact of price for certain balances.
Some deposits are worth more than others from a liquidity point of view.
Some relationships are worth more than others.
And I'd say we're very in tune with what we think we need to do to maintain relationships and to reward customers where we have a big relationship and a lot going on.
We've been through this before.
And we try to stay really focused Bill on customer and providing them great value.
And I think what John is saying and what we're all saying is there is value to the entire relationship.
There is value to the products we have and services and surely deposit pricing is one of those value items.
But it's not a standalone item.
Yes.
And one observation that I would have -- and this is very early days in this -- is that some of the feedback I've seen are the -- that the customers who seem to be the most price-sensitive on the deposits are the customers whose deposits have the lowest liquidity value to Wells Fargo.
So sometimes it's easy to see those go.
Separately if I may I saw your recent transaction update on slide 20 but was hoping you could give a little bit more color on client retention initiatives and whether there are any issues there? And some of those acquired specialty finance businesses like Vendor Finance for example were pretty nichey.
And it feels like it was really Wells and GE and like the CITs of the world that really played in those areas.
So just curious whether GE's exit you think increases your ability to grow share across those businesses as we look forward from here? Yes.
Well we certainly hope that it does.
And I'd say that in Vendor in particular -- I think we mentioned this one we announced the deal.
But as you described GE has this great business that's close to the OEMs that helps them finance their sales to their customers.
Now from a Wells Fargo perspective most of those OEMs are already customers of Wells Fargo in one way or another and most of their customers are already -- or many of their customers are already customers of Wells Fargo in one way or another.
So it's a way for us to really enrich the relationship get closer to the manufacturer.
And in some cases expand a program that we may already have been a smaller player in and in other -- in many other cases to create a program or to step into a program that is working well.
But I'd say overall customer reception has been great as our leaders have reached out and traveled around with our new GE teammates and talked to the customers of the GE businesses.
I don't think customer retention has not surfaced as an issue.
It's just a question of how quickly and how well we can expand the product penetration given all that Wells Fargo has to offer a wholesale customer in each of those instances.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
My question is on fees specifically if you could start on the brokerage business.
Obviously the market values are now weighing on the underlying growth but I was wondering if you could just give us your outlook for growth in the brokerage business which unfortunately has comped now a little negative on a year-over-year basis.
But can you just kind of distinguish between market levels impacts and what you're seeing from a customer activity perspective as you look to 2016? Sure.
I mean it's made a little bit more complicated by what's going on -- in these couple of weeks in terms of just with respect to the impact of asset-based fund or fee type arrangements.
So it's hard to ballpark at the moment.
But we have good strong growth of inflows of both accounts and account assets.
And if we were in a more normalized S&amp;P environment then we'd be talking about the continuity of call it the single-digit percentage growth that has been working for us for the last few years.
But when you overlay this market instability it depends A on what levels we end up at because that'll influence what we're multiplying times a fee schedule.
And B we customers do whether customers are -- stay invested get more invested or back away as volatility increases.
I think it's David's expectation to continue to grow the business by adding new customers to encourage customers to stay invested if that's appropriate for where they are in their investing life cycle to use these as entry points for people who have more money to put to work and longer term goals.
So it's going to come and go move a little bit as equity markets move up and down.
But I think what we're talking about in revenue terms even with the type of pullback that we've had in the first quarter is call it hundreds of millions of dollars' worth of net income sensitivity if we weren't to recover from here and if we didn't have meaningful new customer -- new client growth over the course of the year so.
And then secondly just on the mortgage business if you could also just ex the MSR drive [ph] -- which can swing big up or down how much more retrenching do we still have of the servicing portfolio? And what's just your expectation if it's different than just kind of the MBA Fannie Freddie for what you think the mortgage market does in the year ahead? Yes.
So I think the MBA is calling for a $1.5 trillion or $1.6 trillion down to $1.4 trillion mortgage market in 2016 versus 2015 and our folks seem to be in sync with that.
In terms of servicing retrenching it's -- we'll get to a more normalized level of defaulted loan workout activity over the course of the next couple of years as that -- the full crisis era inventory works it's way off.
And then we'll find out what the stabilized run rate is for productivity for how many people it takes to service a portfolio of our size that's behaving more normally.
And so there is incremental benefit to take out but we're not in a hurry to do it.
It's more important about the loans are serviced properly and customers are dealt with in a way that they require.
But so there's some upside there.
And unreimbursed servicing costs I'd say are -- as we look out they start to improve quarter by quarter over the course of the next several.
So that's one benefit.
But we'll see.
But in terms of the market overall we're very very big in conforming with Fannie and Freddie and there's more to do there.
We think of it more as more of a purchase market as we go forward especially if rates increase although they're going the other way right now.
And as I mentioned a little bit earlier some of the early indicators for purchase activity look really good more jobs more available housing to buy and more people moving into prime first-time home buyer and second-time homebuyer age cohorts.
Those are all very supportive and so-- And household formation-- And household formation is up meaningfully.
So that's good news.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Siefers with Sandler O'Neill.
Please go ahead.
But I think that most of my questions have been answered.
But maybe back on the energy portfolio just broadly if you guys can speak to how your -- just how you are treating customers at a top level? You don't think there's a sense that banks are not necessarily pulling back credit the way you might if you had this kind of a correction in any other sort of asset value so just at a top level? And then John I think you had said in your comments about the NPAs there I just want to make sure I heard that correctly.
Is it 90% of the oil and gas NPAs are current on interest only? I just want to make sure I heard that correctly as well.
Current on interest is what I said.
Yes.
So in terms of pullback and credit availability I would expand the description to say not just bank credit but capital markets were actually as you know were quite open for energy companies very early in this.
And that has gone away.
My understanding is that smaller banks regional banks have only recently begun to really pull back from a willingness to provide credit.
Maybe it's this incremental leg down to where we're on crude prices that has people generally believing that this could be where we're for a longer time.
I wouldn't say that there is a tremendous demand for incremental credit right now.
It's more about how quickly you're asking or requiring your customers to come into conformance under their borrowing base.
What you're doing with their excess cash what they're doing with their CapEx program.
And I'd say we're all being as appropriately tough to make sure that we protect the interests of the bank.
We're very -- we're working with each customer to help them work through this.
It doesn't do us any good to accelerate an issue or two to end up as the holder of a number of oil leases as a bank.
And so that dictates some of the cadence.
Services companies I think are different than E&amp;P companies because for some of them it's really not about a $5 band of oil prices or a $10 band of oil prices.
They're either in business or they're not in business.
And if they're not in business you have got to figure out how to maximize the recovery as quickly as possible because some of their inventory which is security for the loan may be very single-purpose.
And I'd say that's a little bit of a different workout.
I don't know if that's helpful but that's how we're seeing it.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR.
Please go ahead.
On the mortgage banking side can you talk a little bit about how TRID has impacted on the mortgage banking revenues? It looks like you guys did a pretty good quarter despite a lot of disruptions that TRID brought to the market.
Yes.
So we spent a lot of time preparing ourselves for it technology-wise data management-wise so that we could flip a switch and collect the right data and have the right disclosures etcetera.
We've not seen a meaningful impact to our results in our retail channel or from our work with correspondents.
There are probably some lower volume programs that we or others would have deemphasized while we emphasize preparing ourselves for the new requirements in our bigger programs.
So as those -- or as those have come online etcetera maybe we see a little bit of a snapback but you wouldn't even notice that in the numbers.
So for the most part the impact I'd say has been immaterial.
And then in the 2015 especially in the second half of the year we saw on the macro data and I think even on your micro data a big pick up in purchase originations.
Probably the large -- the third quarter was the largest origination quarter for purchases since 2007 2008.
Do you think TRID interrupted that? Are you still seeing very strong demand for the purchase market despite all this volatility? Well you have to seasonally adjust that analysis but I think it's our take that it didn't really interrupt it.
It just adds a week Paul.
It really does.
And it turns out to be in many cases a bit of an inconvenience to a customer.
But it's what it is -- but I don't think it's really had an impact.
Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Two quick follow-ups on debt issuance just with the GE I just wanted to make sure that I understood is that fully funded now or is that partially funded? Can you say how much -- how much of that is funded already? Sure.
Through the end of the year I'd say it's 2/3rds.
Okay.
And the expectations for earnings accretion turned a little bit more positive in your update? Has anything changed there or you've just refined your estimate from when you first did the deal? It's the latter.
It's refining the estimate of the expenses that we're going to consume to properly transition all the team members to do data work around the customers etcetera.
Although it's just important to say the big emphasis here is on the lifetime relationship we're going to have these customers.
I know that it's important to you guys to get what the first few months mean but we're much more concerned on an orderly transition and a nice integration and a good feeling for both customers and team members.
And that's expensive.
Okay.
And then on TLAC any update on potential TLAC issuance? I think your original estimate was up $40 billion to $60 billion.
And have you done some of that already and what will be maybe the timing or time frame over which you do the rest? So the estimate is still the same.
We did do a little bit in the fourth quarter $6 billion to $7 billion I think in the fourth quarter of what would be TLAC eligible.
This is a little bit of a subtlety but now that the NPR is out and while the NPR is out there is a little ambiguity about what's eligible and what's not.
And so that will slowdown issuance during the NPR period so that none of us issue something that turns out not to be either conforming or grandfathered.
So it'll be slow here for a quarter or two probably but it's our goal to get our full requirement whatever it ultimately is in place with plenty of room before the actual -- the final phase-in date of 1/1/2022.
So we will update folks as we go along to let them know where we're on that journey and what the impact is.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Morford with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
John you talked about the economy but what's customer sentiment like lately? Are you seeing much confidence to borrow and make investments and given the macro uncertainties? And also while the consumer is benefiting from lower gas prices are you seeing much willingness to spend? So far Joe with respect to consumers they have not spent a lot of their gas savings so far.
I think you'll start to spend some more -- and the thing for Wells Fargo is 97% of what we do is in the U.S..
And virtually everything we do in the U.S.
is involved in the real economy.
And there are pockets of strengths.
You think of autos you think of commercial real estate you think of residential real estate parts of ag some middle market.
And I don't -- I'm not going to say it's robust but we're really happy we're all-in in the U.S..
Let's put it that way.
And then how did also how did the recruitment of the Credit Suisse private bankers go relative to expectations? And was there any impact from this on expenses this quarter and what would be the magnitude and timing of the assets under management you might expect to transfer over? So I think it's going on -- as David would describe it as planned in terms of number of people who have or will be joining Wells Fargo.
I don't think they've actually disclosed a hard number on that but it's a good outcome.
And I assume it'll take one to two quarters after people join for them begin to migrate their customer accounts over to Wells Fargo.
That's probably more of a second half impact.
And frankly even with the maximum number of people the total people that were originally referred to in that arrangement that we had with Credit Suisse what it looks like is three four or five months' worth of organic financial advisor recruitment.
It's not a huge game-changer in terms of the numbers.
It's great.
We've got the exact right people for our platform.
They add a lot of capability.
They have a lot of great customer relationships that we're excited to have.
But I would think of that more as a modest acceleration of what would have been organic activity rather than a game-changing activity in this segment.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Foran with Autonomous Research.
Please go ahead.
So I guess there is an industrial company reporting as you're speaking so I don't mean to hijack you since you obviously haven't heard of it.
And I don't even know if I'm pronouncing it right Fastenal or something but they're kind of making the statement that we're in an industrial recession.
They're seeing some of their underlying customers with orders down 25%-plus year-over-year.
So I wonder if you could comment like when you just talk to that kind of industrial component of your customer base who maybe is a more exposed to cutbacks by the energy industry and the strong dollar do you think it's possible we actually are in an industrial recession right now? So my observation would be for certainly for folks who are selling into the energy extraction or processing businesses it's been a tough year and will continue to be.
And I'd be surprised if those orders were only down 25%.
But I think more broadly at least as it reveals itself in our own customer activity people who are more reliant on exports have been -- were hit early and hit hard by how strong the dollar has become over the course of the last couple of years.
And but more broadly it's as John described right? It's not robust.
People aren't super enthusiastic.
But you've seen the growth in our commercial loan portfolios which reflects people doing business.
And some -- a lot of that is us taking business from other people but in a significant portion of those cases that's folks borrowing money to do things to buy things.
And it doesn't feel like a manufacturing recession to me.
Although I'm sensitive to manufacturers who ship everything overseas and who are trying to sell it in dollars because that's a more expensive proposition.
Yes.
As John mentioned we're a very diversified company.
We lend to all sectors of the economy farmers ranchers 2% of our loans in oil and gas commercial real estate middle market.
And so you're going to have some companies because of what they are doing are going to be impacted more than others.
And I can surely see where Fastenal who -- it's a Midwestern company I know that company it's a great company -- will have some issues or would be saying the things they're saying.
That makes sense to me given their product mix.
I thought they were based in Minnesota.
So I figured it was fair to ask.
I know them.
They're great.
And then I guess just stepping back on fees.
I guess one of the things that just strikes me looking at the model is they have kind of been bouncing around $10 billion a quarter ever since the Wachovia deal.
And I guess that speaks to some of the benefits of diversity in the business because there have been some huge headwinds like the mortgage bubble popping and all that.
Do you think we're finally at the point where the underlying business momentum that you've clearly generated can start leading to higher reported consolidated fees? Or is there still maybe another year of headwinds with the lower equity markets and lower refi volumes and stuff like that? So the bigger categories would be deposit service charges which are both consumer and commercial.
And I would say there's a nice trajectory there and we were impacted in a way that call it in the immediate post-merger time frame where things were cut back and then growing.
And they have been growing nicely and continue to both by adding new customers and adding new capability.
So that's a strength and something that will continue to grow.
Card fees the big emphasis there both debit and credit and are moving down the path to really grow our credit card business I think will help there.
In the wealth and investment management business as we've talked about a big portion of it will be a function of what happens with equity markets.
But we're growing the customer base.
We're growing assets under management and that may be more volatile given what's going on with the S&amp;P but that certainly a source of growth over any reasonable time frame.
Those categories are our bread-and-butter fundamental banking activity that we feel really good about.
At the margin we also have as we've mentioned this step down to a more normalized level of equity gains.
That's something that has to be grown through in your analysis the mortgage market as we've said even if we're doing more if that market isn't growing much then we'll be impacted one way or the other by that.
So it's our goal to work to grow the aggregation of those line items in the way that you're describing.
But each of them has their own character.
That diversification has worked for us over the past several years as you mentioned.
But there is a lot to do to grow them.
I could sneak in a very short one on energy is there any material second lien exposure in the oil portfolio? Not material.
No.
There is a little bit in a business that we call energy capital but in the context of the numbers that we've been talking about it's not material.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Just a couple clarifications so you have $1.2 billion of reserves on oil and gas credits and you have $17 billion of oil and gas credits.
Is that right? Correct outstanding.
So you have 7% reserves against your oil and gas portfolio? The math works out to 7% on that allocation but I'd point out that we have a $12 billion allowance for loan losses all of which is available for losses wherever they occur in the portfolio but yes.
Our own internal allocation of what's applied to that portfolio would get you to 7%.
So I think you're winning on that 7% percentage.
I mean some others are at 3% 4% 5%.
So I guess -- but I didn't get the answer to the question before what percent of the $17 billion are -- is non-investment grade? I would say most of it most of it.
So most of the $17 billion is non-investment grade? Correct.
So would that 7% figure reflect that mix then of having more non-investment grade credits or would it reflect more conservatism than peers? As I mentioned everyone of these portfolios is different based on who their customers are what their business mix looks like what basins what extraction method what their corporate leverage looks like.
So it's hard to compare.
I do agree that 7% is winning though in terms of the reported numbers.
And just to clarify what you said before if oil stays at $30 for the next year you still feel that the $1.2 billion of reserves on the oil and gas portfolio is sufficient? Is that correct? Correct.
Okay.
And now let's just pull the lens back a little bit.
John you've been through many cycles.
And I am just wondering is the decline in the oil and gas sector similar to other industry specific declines that then spill over on the broader economy? In other words what comes to my mind is 2002 TMT there you had add Enron WorldCom you had a spillover effect.
You had some market concerns you had some losses.
Or what other period does this seem similar to? Or is this stretching too much this oil and gas thing it's fine it's going to blow over? Where do you stand? Actually Mike it's a great question.
I go back to 1985 or the early 1980s when I ran the workout group.
In fact I got to see our Denver-based energy business up close at that time.
So I -- and then we saw of course there has been a couple cycles since that time.
And this one is different in a couple of respects.
First of all the economy in the U.S.
is more diversified so the communities in which energy plays a role is more diversified.
Not true in every community but and we look at that.
Secondly companies this time around reacted much more quickly.
I think in past recessions -- in past corrections there was more hope and prayer going on for higher prices or a rebound.
And so they reacted quickly.
And I would also say this time around the way companies finance themselves there is more private equity and other debt that would be subordinate to the bank debt.
So there are differences.
And I would say the final thing is the mismatch between supply and demand at the world level is fairly narrow.
So there's about 93 million barrels produced a day and about 92 consumed.
So it's a very narrow mismatch and demand seems to still be increasing.
So I am not suggesting that's going to make this problem go away anytime soon.
The Saudis are pumping like crazy.
So are the Russians and of course with what happened with tight oil here in the U.S.
but there are differences.
And our people who run this portfolio for us have seen many or most of those cycles.
So everyone is different.
One thing I would add is certainly plenty of opportunity for a market-related contagion when one industry is suffering and other industries are starting -- are trying to borrow.
But in this instance cheap oil is a net stimulative impact on U.S.
growth.
A WorldCom fraud was not beneficial for everybody else in the U.S.
Telecom didn't get cheaper.
But fuel has gotten cheaper which is good for consumers and good for other-- And Mike I'll give you one other example.
I was with a large builder in the Texas market not long ago.
And they were talking about the fact that some of what's happening in oil and gas in the field services is making cement more available and workers and so forth that are important to housing.
So I'm not suggesting it happens everywhere everyone's different.
Your next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks.
Please go ahead.
John I wanted to ask you about the cross-sell ratio something you've always prided in the sense of being able to show improvement kind of peaked out last year and this year we're actually seeing it come down a little bit.
So just was wondering how those trends are looking in the sense of being able to sell more to your products? Sure.
So how that works is we take total product holdings divided by total customers.
And we're actually seeing the denominator grow faster now than we've seen it in some time and first-year customers don't have an average of six products.
They are more in the four range so that has a bit of a dilutive impact on that.
And also as you get to the higher value products the sales cycle or solutions cycle tends to be a bit longer.
So this is actually a good problem I think in that when you're growing net new primary checking accounts by 5.6% the goal is not necessarily a ratio.
The goal is to have long term mutually beneficial relationships with customers where we help them succeed financially.
So I'm happy with where we're in that.
But thank you for the question.
It's a good question.
And then on the net interest margin can we just think about this -- let's forget about the funding cost and deposits because everybody's skittish on committing to what's going to happen given the dynamic of competition.
But let's just think about earning assets and the floating loans and short term liquid assets that you have.
With the 25 basis point rise that we saw in December how much should we see the impact on that positive to earning asset yields just isolating out that one piece of the equation? So it depends on the existing and changing distribution between one-month three-month LIBOR-based loans prime-based loans fixed loans LIBOR loans that we swap to fixed rate and there's a lot that goes into it.
So it's hard to isolate it.
I'd say that when we think back to the way that we separated our interest rate sensitive categories for illustrative purposes at the last Investor Day we would have said that 20%ish and this is both asset and liability side so it's a different answer than what you're asking -- but that we would've gotten call it 20% of a change flowing through and the range was 10% to 30%.
And I think we're probably at the low end of that range right now but that's picking up both assets and liabilities.
I can tell you also that LIBOR resets seem to have occurred the way we would've expected them after the Fed moved in December.
So the asset side is behaving as we expected and a 25 basis point move is not a giant needle mover in terms of dollars and cents for Wells Fargo.
On a net basis you're talking about $100 million to $200 million a quarter or something like that.
So all things being equal which they never are but that's the order of magnitude.
And then just lastly was there any disruption on investment banking from some of the things that we saw with high yield freezing up and some of the processing there of just being able to deliver into the market because investment banking has been a big grower a benefit for you all as well.
So just wanted to see if there was any disruptions in the quarter that you experienced in that side? Yes.
So I wouldn't describe anything as a disruption.
There is sort of two ways that on the sell side that we might be impacted.
One is how do net long credit are we in our trading businesses? And I think we managed that really really well and it wasn't really disruptive.
And then are the markets open and are we representing clients and helping them raise money in the high yield market? And that's been harder to do given the volatility that we've seen.
Our share is still about the same.
We're between 4% and 5% of U.S.
investment banking fees.
That's capital markets activity advisory activity etcetera but it didn't have a big impact.
We were up in the fourth quarter over the third quarter in investment banking fees overall which you'd expect.
The fourth quarter is seasonally usually a busier time M&amp;A activity etcetera but no disruption.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Barker with Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
You mentioned that the amount of criticized loans in your energy portfolio was 38% of outstandings.
What was it last quarter? And could you also describe how many of your energy loans are either in a second lien position or subordinated position compared to first lien holders? Sure.
So criticized oil and gas assets -- I can tell you what they -- how they changed year-over-year.
They're at call it $6.6 billion at the end of the quarter up $5.5 billion from -- so substantially all migrated during the course of 2015.
And in terms of second lien it's a small number.
We have a small business called Energy Capital that does some -- they're deeper in the capital stack investing and in our clients and in their properties.
And I want to say the total portfolio is in the hundreds of millions of dollars.
So it's modest.
Think of this is a senior lender I mean-- And the big E&amp;P exposures are senior loan exposures.
What was the change of criticized from third quarter to fourth quarter I meant? Let me see.
It was 33% at the end of the third quarter and 38% at the end of the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And then in regards to some of the questions earlier about ancillary effects from the decline in oil prices could in industrial but then for even some financial institution exposure that you had in the commercial portfolio? So we have an ongoing analysis to look at it -- this is a related but indirect response to that question.
We have an ongoing analysis of all of the MSAs where we've got more than 5% -- well there's two versions of it so the 3% to 5% and then greater 5% employment in the energy industry and we're looking at all of our consumer and commercial exposures in those geographical areas to measure impact and to think about how we lend money A what our balance sheet exposure is and B what our new origination exposure looks like.
And it might surprise you that places like Houston because of their relative diversity of their overall economy are actually performing relatively stronger than some counties that represent other basins in the Dakotas in the West etcetera.
But we really haven't seen any second order big impact yet among any of them in terms of our balance sheet exposure and we're on the lookout.
The entire credit organization here is focused on how that might change but it really hasn't yet.
And then as John mentioned earlier for most of our customers 98% of our loans and most of our retail consumer customers and our wholesale customers lower fuel costs mean lower transportation costs mean lower heating costs mean lower power costs.
It's not bad for their business.
They're impacted if their customers are employed in the business.
They're impacted if they're selling into the business.
But it's got a net stimulative effect.
And so we haven't seen a big spillover yet.
Okay.
And then right now your charge-off rate is running in the low to mid 30s on basis points whereas-- Lowest on record at Wells Fargo 33 basis points is as low -- we've looked in the-- I've been here 34 years I've never found it never been lower.
Clearly trends have been excellent for you guys over the last several years.
And when we step back and look at reserve releases have essentially stopped in the last two quarters.
And pre-crisis your charge-off rate was running around 70 to 80 basis points give or take depending on the quarter and the year.
But in looking at it now how do you look at the migration or the normalization of credit where we're now versus pre-crisis? Yes.
So we'll probably talk about this in some depth at our Investor Day and there are a couple important things and one of them is the mix of the assets on our balance sheet today compared to where it used to be.
So home equity is sort of a going away business because we've got a portfolio that's been shrinking for a long time.
It's been improving in performance and it just is not being added for a variety of reasons on a net basis and that's unlikely to change.
That was a big source of our absolute dollars of loss in the weighted average charge-off rate through the -- leading up to and through the crisis.
When you think about the residential real estate portfolio here what we're adding is all high-grade -- it's prime jumbo origination.
They are very safe loans.
I think we've got 4 basis points of loss something like that coming through that portfolio.
It feels very good.
And while I'm sure it'll change a little bit over time it's not going to behave like balance sheet first mortgage loans did pre-crisis because there was just a different appetite for the types of loans that banks might hold.
So I think that's important.
Also the percentage of our portfolio and card business we're trying to grow the credit card business.
We like it a lot.
It's obviously got a much more volatile charge-off profile to it but at $30 billion $40 billion or even $50 billion worth of assets at Wells Fargo it's going to have -- if you are comparing us against other banks for example that's going to have an impact.
And I think those are a couple of the -- that contribution to mix is something that you need to have a sense for.
And I think what you'll hear from us when we revisit this at Investor Day is that our current expectation for our normalized through the cycle loss rate will be lower than the last time that we talked about it.
But probably higher than 33 basis points but lower than the 75 or whatever we signaled to you two years ago.
And Kevin I'll make one final comment.
Virtually everything we do on the consumer side is prime.
I mean we have some near prime 10% or so or less in auto and that's a bit of a difference from before.
We had a Wells Fargo Financial in the past for example.
And I will now turn the conference over for any concluding remarks.
Well thank you for joining us.
I want to thank all of our team members who serve one in three customers across the United States and so much appreciate all they do.
Thank you for joining us and we'll see you in 90 days three months from now.
Bye bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Rowe you may begin your conference.
Thank you Regina and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf; and our CFO Tim Sloan will review second quarter results and answer your questions.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that our second quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website.
I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplements.
Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can also be found in our SEC filings in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on wellsfargo.com.
I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf.
Thank you Jim and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Before I discuss our results this quarter I want to take a moment to recognize that 160 years ago today on July 13 in 1852 Wells Fargo first opened its doors for business right here in San Francisco.
So it's our birthday today.
It's been quite a remarkable ride for the stagecoach for the last 160 years.
And during that period of time we've been through many economic cycles.
While the current economic recovery remains uneven our strong performance in the second quarter reflects the strength of our franchise the benefit of our diversified business model and the advantage of an outstanding team working together to serve our customers.
Our focus on meeting our customers’ financial needs resulted in continued strong deposit growth growth in consumer and commercial loans and record cross-sell.
Let me quickly review some of the highlights of the quarter.
We generated record net income up 17% from a year ago and EPS was also up 17%.
Pretax pre-provision profits increased 12% and revenue grew 4% from a year ago.
We had positive operating leverage and our expense efficiency ratio improved by 300 basis points from a year ago.
Retail banking cross-sell reached a new record of 6 products per household for the entire community bank consumer base.
Credit quality continued to improve with our charge-off ratio declining to 1.15% the lowest level since 2007 and down 37 basis points from a year ago.
Our profitability ratios reflect these strong results with our ROA growing to 1.41% up 14 basis points from a year ago the highest it's been in 4 years.
Our return on equity increased to 12.86% up 94 basis points from a year ago.
We purchased 53 million shares of common stock during the second quarter while we continued to grow capital.
Our performance reflects growth throughout our businesses.
Our mortgage business generated record applications in the second quarter of $208 billion up over 90% from a year ago and up 11% from last quarter.
Obviously the low-rate environment is driving strong refi application volume.
But purchase volume was up over $19 billion or 43% from the first quarter indicating increased strength in the overall housing market where we've seen increases in sales and pricing in markets throughout the country even in some of the hardest hit areas during the downturn.
We remain focused on our commitment to helping homeowners stay in their homes with over 770 000 active trial or completed mortgage modifications since the beginning of 2009.
We've also helped nearly 6.2 million customers secure new low-rate loans for home purchases or refinancing since the beginning of 2009.
The strength of our mortgage business is just one example of how we've been able to generate new customer relationships and better serve our existing customers.
We grew commercial loans through portfolio acquisitions and organically increased credit card penetration of the retail banking households to 31% grew retail brokerage managed account assets by 7% from a year ago and small business checking accounts were up nearly 4% from a year ago.
This is just the beginning of the many opportunities we have to capitalize on the strength of our franchise and achieve the financial goals we shared with you at Investor Day.
Tim Sloan our CFO will now provide more details on our financial results.
Tim? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
My remarks will follow the presentation included in the first half of our quarterly supplement that starts on Page 2 and then John and I will take your questions.
As John highlighted we had a very strong quarter with record earnings of $4.6 billion up 9% from the first quarter and 17% from a year ago.
Earnings per share were a record $0.82 also up 9% from last quarter and 17% from a year ago.
This was our 10th consecutive quarter of earnings per share growth.
Our ability to consistently grow earnings per share over the past 2.5 years when the economy has faced many challenges reflects the benefit of our diversified business model.
I'm going to start by highlighting some of the key drivers of our results this quarter beginning on Page 4 and I'll add more detail later in my remarks.
We grew both our total and our core loan portfolios.
The loan growth was broad-based and benefited from acquisitions and organic growth in both commercial and consumer portfolios.
Our securities portfolio declined $3.4 billion as new investments were more than offset by called lower-yield securities and runoff.
We remain cautious in how we invest in this interest rate and credit environment.
Turning to the income statement.
Revenue declined $347 million from the first quarter as growth in net interest income and fee growth across many of our businesses was offset by declines in trading driven by lower deferred compensation plan investment income and lower gains on equity investments.
Our expense efficiency ratio improved to 58.2% as expenses declined $596 million from the first quarter consistent with our expectations.
Expenses related to the settlement with the Department of Justice which we announced yesterday have been fully accrued for as of the end of the second quarter.
Let me now cover our results in a little bit more detail.
As shown on Page 6 period-end loans were up $8.7 billion from the first quarter with growth across a number of commercial and consumer portfolios.
The liquidating portfolio declined by $5.1 billion and our core loan portfolio grew by $13.8 billion.
Commercial loans increased $8.3 billion including $6.9 billion of loans acquired in the purchase of BNP Paribas' North American energy lending business and the purchase of WestLB subscription finance portfolio.
Our strong balance sheet has enabled us to take advantage of these opportunities in this economic environment.
Our portfolio of purchases are in businesses we understand and include both new customers and customers we already serve providing us the opportunity to deepen these relationships.
Consumer loans increased $375 million from the first quarter as growth in first mortgages auto and credit card was partially offset by declines in junior lien mortgages.
Average loan balances were down $359 million from the first quarter which didn't benefit from the late quarter close of the WestLB portfolio.
However many commercial and consumer loan portfolios increased average balances on a link quarter basis.
We had strong core deposit growth with average core deposits up $10.1 billion from the first quarter up $73.2 billion or 9% from a year ago.
Core deposits were 115% of average loans.
Average core checking and savings deposits were up 12% from a year ago and were 93% of average core deposits.
We have successfully grown deposits while reducing our deposit costs for 7 consecutive quarters.
Deposit costs in the second quarter were 19 basis points down 1 basis point from the first quarter and down 9 basis points from a year ago.
Tax equivalent net interest income increased $155 million from the first quarter driven by growth in earning assets up $16 billion while our net interest margin was unchanged at 3.91%.
The NIM included a 7 basis point benefit from higher variable items including PCI loan resolutions in the second quarter.
These variable sources of income can be lumpy from quarter-to-quarter and we would expect continued pressure on our NIM as the balance sheet reprices in the current low-rate environment.
But as we've said and stated many times in the past we remain focused on growing net interest income.
Noninterest income declined $496 million from the first quarter down 5%.
The decline was partially due to $377 million of lower trading gains on $218 million of lower deferred compensation plan investment results which is offset in employee benefit expense.
Equity gains were also lower this quarter down $122 million.
However we continue to benefit from our diverse businesses with growth in deposit service charges trust and investment fees card fees processing fees insurance and mortgage banking.
Mortgage banking revenue increased $23 million from the first quarter with continued strong originations and margins.
Results included a $669 million provision for mortgage repurchase losses which was $239 million higher than the first quarter and I'll discuss this more later.
Mortgage originations were $131 billion in the second quarter up $2 billion from the strong first quarter volumes and were more than double what they were a year ago.
16% of our origination volume this quarter was from HARP similar to last quarter.
The unclosed mortgage pipeline at quarter end was a very strong $102 billion up 29% from the first quarter and the second highest pipeline in our history.
Turning to expenses.
Noninterest expenses were down $596 million from the first quarter driven by lower personnel expenses.
Commission and incentive compensation expense decreased $63 million as declines in seasonally high first quarter expenses were partially offset by higher revenue-driven compensation.
Employee benefit expense was down $559 million from seasonally high first quarter and reflects lower deferred compensation expense.
Second quarter expenses also included $524 million of operating losses $47 million higher than the first quarter.
Operating losses this quarter included an accrual for the settlement with the Department of Justice.
We first highlighted our expense reduction program during our earnings call a year ago.
One year later we've made solid progress at reducing expenses and we remain committed to improving our efficiency.
However a lot has changed over the past 12 months particularly in terms of revenue opportunities.
As shown on Slide 11 we achieved positive operating leverage with revenue growing $903 million while noninterest expense declined $78 million over the past year.
As we’ve said all along we will not pass up revenue opportunities in order to meet a specific expense target number.
Mortgage volumes have been much stronger than anyone expected a year ago or even 3 months ago for that matter with originations more than double what they were a year ago and our mortgage pipeline which should lead to future revenue and expense growth has also doubled.
So while we have reduced total FTEs for Wells Fargo by 1% over the past year we have increased FTEs in consumer real estate by 19% to capture the revenue opportunities from strong mortgage volumes.
In fact we added over 2 000 FTEs in mortgage in the second quarter.
It is also important to note that revenue and expenses reflect the success we've had in completing several business and loan portfolio acquisitions over the past year and we've continued to invest in our growing businesses.
Also litigation accruals have been high and our mortgage servicing costs have been elevated due to the mortgage servicing settlement and foreclosure consent orders.
As shown on Page 12 even with all of this business and expense growth we have achieved efficiency improvements with our efficiency ratio in the second quarter improving to 58.2% the lowest level in 9 quarters.
This improvement in our efficiency ratio demonstrates the success we've had at expense reduction even as we've grown revenue.
Let me mention just a few examples.
We've reduced FTEs in high-cost geographies by 10% since the beginning of 2011.
We've reduced occupancy expense by 7% including real estate reductions of 3 million square feet.
And we have reduced third-party spend reflecting renegotiated contracts and changes in demand.
As we highlighted in Investor Day we've established an efficiency ratio target of 55% to 59% and we were in that range this quarter.
We currently expect to be within our target range for the rest of 2012.
We believe that focusing on our efficiency ratio is the best way to demonstrate expense management as we continue to focus on revenue opportunities for both this year and in the future.
Due to our strong revenue opportunities particularly in mortgage we now expect our fourth quarter expenses to be higher than our previous target of $11.25 billion.
However current expenses are still too high and we expect them to trend down over the remainder of the year from second quarter levels.
Let me now briefly highlight on our segment results starting on Page 13.
Community Banking earned $2.5 billion in the second quarter up 8% from the first quarter.
Retail banking reached a record cross-sell of 6 products per household up from 5.82 a year ago.
Cross-sell growth occurred throughout our franchise with the West increasing to 6.37 and the East increasing to 5.52 up 27 basis points from a year ago.
The momentum in the East is also demonstrated by core product sales growing by 5% from a year ago.
Credit card penetration in our retail banking households continue to increase to 31% up from 27% a year ago.
We generated a record -- we generated record consumer auto originations in the second quarter of $6.6 billion up 6% from the first quarter and up 18% from a year ago.
Wholesale Banking earned $1.9 billion in the second quarter with record revenue of $6.1 billion which was broad-based across our diversified commercial businesses.
Revenue also benefited from increased PCI loan resolution income.
Wholesale Banking had solid loan growth up 1% from the first quarter and 11% from a year ago.
The growth was broad-based reflecting new and existing customer growth and our ability to capitalize on acquisition opportunities in this environment.
During the second quarter $3.7 billion of loans that were acquired in the purchase of BNP Paribas' North American energy lending business with nearly $9.4 billion in loan commitments.
We also completed the acquisition of $3.2 billion of subscription finance loans from WestLB with nearly $6 billion of commitments.
We've also had strong organic growth with 8 consecutive quarters of average loan growth in our Commercial Banking portfolio from new originations and increased line utilization from our middle market customers.
Wealth Brokerage and Retirement earned $343 million up 16% from the first quarter.
Revenue declined $91 million from the first quarter excluding $122 million of lower deferred compensation plan investment results.
Revenue increased 1% driven by higher retail brokerage asset-based fees.
Cross-sell continued to increase with our focus on meeting all of our customers' financial needs growing to 10.22 up from 9.94 a year ago.
Credit quality continued to improve this quarter as shown on Page 16 with better performance across portfolios and credit metrics.
Net charge-offs were down $195 million from the first quarter and were 1.15% of average loans down 10 basis points from the last quarter.
From the peak in the fourth quarter of 2009 charge-offs are down $3.2 billion or 59%.
Provision expense was $1.8 billion including a $400 million reserve release.
Absent significant deterioration in the economy we continue to expect future reserve releases in 2012.
Nonperforming assets were down $1.8 billion from the first quarter down 11% from a year ago.
The linked quarter decline reflects a $1.4 billion reduction in NPLs and a $310 million decline in foreclosed assets.
NPAs were 3.21% of total loans in the second quarter the lowest level since 2009.
Loans 90 days or more past due were down $276 million or 17% from the first quarter with declines in both commercial and consumer portfolios.
Early-stage consumer loan delinquency balances and rates also improved from the first quarter and were also significantly better than a year ago.
We service $1.9 trillion of residential mortgages.
This is a great business because of the new customer growth and cross-sell opportunities it provides and our servicing portfolio positions us well to benefit from refinance waves like the one we're experiencing now since existing customers usually give us the first chance when they refinance.
As we've been highlighting for several quarters the delinquency and foreclosure rate on our servicing portfolio was over 400 basis points lower than the industry average excluding Wells Fargo based on the most recently publicly available data demonstrating the quality of our portfolio.
Our total delinquency and foreclosure rate was 7.14% in the first quarter seasonally higher than -- excuse me in the second quarter seasonally higher than the first quarter but down from 7.44% a year ago and a peak of 8.96% in the fourth quarter of 2009.
As I mentioned earlier we added $669 million to our repurchase reserve this quarter up $239 million from the first quarter.
While outstanding repurchase demands were down this quarter we added to our repurchase reserve primarily due to an increase in expected demands from the GSEs regarding 2006 to 2008 vintages.
As we have mentioned in prior quarters we continue to see behavioral changes from the agencies as they seem to be conforming their practices and this addition to the reserve was a result of our ongoing dialogue with them including some communication very late in the quarter.
We believe the additional reserve we added this quarter is appropriate to cover losses associated with these higher expected demands.
As shown on Page 20 our capital position continued to grow with our Tier 1 common equity ratio increasing to 10.0% up 10 basis points from the last quarter.
Our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under the latest Basel III proposals included in notices of proposed rule-making issued by the regulators in June were 7.78% for the second quarter.
The proposed rules were largely consistent with our expectations but changes in a few areas reduced our estimated ratio by approximately 30 basis points this quarter.
Even after factoring in these changes we are still in a strong capital position as reflected in our estimated ratio.
And we expect to achieve Basel minimums well in advance of any published guidelines.
We purchased 53 million shares in the second quarter and entered into a forward repurchase transaction for an estimated 11 million shares that is expected to settle in the third quarter.
We redeemed $1.8 billion of trust preferred securities with an average coupon of 6.31% in the quarter.
We’ve redeemed a total of $11.9 billion of TruPS since the beginning of 2011.
In summary our strong results again this quarter continued to demonstrate the benefit of our diversified business model.
By following our consistent vision we once again achieved record earnings higher pretax pre-provision profit positive operating leverage with reduced expenses and improved credit quality.
Our return on assets was 1.41% the highest in 16 quarters and within our target range of 1.3% to 1.6% that we provided on Investor Day.
Our ROE grew to 12.86% also within our target range of 12% to 15%.
And while we had great results this quarter we have plenty of opportunity ahead for future growth including a strong mortgage pipeline recently completed acquisitions improving cross-sell increasing market share and improving efficiency all while remaining very focused on risk.
I will now open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My first question is I guess I'm just trying to figure out the movement in terms of core loan yield trends.
So if I take out the $113 million of -- it seemed like outsized resolution that accreted back to your margin on the PCI book it still seems as if your core loan yield would only be down less than 5%.
So could you give us a sense of: A was there some enhancement from the BNP transaction in your commercial loan yield this quarter? Or if not what are you doing differently to keep your pricing relatively resilient? No that's a fair question and I think your estimate of the impact of the special items is correct.
Neither the acquisitions either the BNP acquisition or WestLB really impacted the core loan yields.
They were very similar to similar loans that we had in similar portfolios we already had on the sheet.
And so there's really nothing in particular that's going on from a loan yield standpoint.
It's competitive out there.
We continue to compete as best we can.
We tend not to be -- to over compete on price.
We focus on competing on relationship and growing cross-sell.
But there's nothing special there at all.
Research Division</strong> And on the bond portfolio you mentioned in the presentation that some lower-yielding securities were called.
What was sort of the impact of that in terms of -- the AFS yields were up quarter-over-quarter.
Was that primarily due to that the lower-yielding bond getting called? And also if you could give us a sense in terms of what you were reinvesting in from a duration and yield perspective this quarter.
Yes that was a driver for the increase in the yield.
And really what happened is we had some very high-quality short-term government or government agency securities that were called that we had invested in in the end of the third early fourth quarter of last year when we had all that excess liquidity that occurred.
And what we did is we looked across the spectrum and saw the best -- some of the best risk return being in very high-quality municipal securities and so that was the exchange.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just one more on capital thank you so much for giving us an updated Basel III number.
I was wondering as you looked through the how to interpret the risk weighting by LTV on the resi portfolio did you give yourselves credit for the purchase accounting marks on the Wachovia book? Yes we did we did.
And again I think that the important thing to think about when you -- as we look through the NPRs is that while it did have about a 30 basis point impact we don't -- and there's a lot of give-and-takes that we're going to have with the regulators and the whole industry will have with the regulators on the various items in terms of our ability to meet any sort of capital requirements on any reasonable set of time we're going to meet them well in advance.
So we've got a lot of discussion to have with the regulators but we're fine from a capital standpoint.
Yes let me just emphasize that.
We're in that unique position of not having to do anything uneconomic or different to somehow hoard capital or to meet something.
We are -- we have such strong capital such strong cash flows and earnings here.
It puts us in a position where we can grow organically do strategic and value-adding portfolio acquisitions or whatever.
So it really puts us in a great position.
Capital simply is a not an issue here.
Nothing I'd worry about.
The next question will come from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> A couple of nitty-gritty questions for Tim.
Tim on the share count the average diluted shares were up but despite the buyback and even though the end of period is down is that just timing of when the buybacks were done or something else there? John it's a function of timing.
It's a good question.
It's a function of the timing and also the fact that we tend to have more share issuance in the first part of the year.
If you look over last year you saw something relatively similar in that the share count drifted down a little bit toward the end of the year.
But it's nothing special other than just timing.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the variable source items contributing to NIM this quarter and assuming 7 basis points besides loan resolutions can you just give us a feel for what other types of variable sources are affecting the NIM? It was mostly loan resolutions John and that's why we called it out.
The NIM's been flat quarter-over-quarter and we wanted to make sure that you all appreciated that 7 basis points was something that was relatively special.
And John as we have mentioned in the past and we'll say it again NIM will be under pressure as -- in this low-rate environment.
And while we don't manage to it we surely talk about it.
But what's important here is we're able to grow net interest income and that's really the driver.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay and do you see more opportunity to buy loan books from other banks? What is the market like for that kind of opportunity? I think the market continues to provide opportunities for firms that have the liquidity and the capital to be able to take advantage of it.
Whether or not we'll be successful I certainly can't promise you because we turn down more than we pursue.
But we're just very very pleased over the past year to have been in position to make the acquisitions that we've done.
To date they've all worked out well and we look forward to looking at more acquisitions in the future.
John we -- like I said lots and we kick a lot of tires.
We say no to more stuff than we say yes to.
But we don't do another deal that's -- we'll do other things but we're still looking at a lot of things.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last thing for me understanding that it's not a big deal as it's only one quarter of capital build for you but what in the Basel III NPRs drove that 30 basis point revision to your pro forma outlook Tim? Yes there were a couple of things in the numerator John.
First in terms of how the OCI related to our pension would be handled.
And then second was the MSR floor.
And then on the denominator side it was primarily an RWA adjustment for the removal of the credit rating for AFS securities.
But again it wasn't significant.
Your next question will come from the line of Chris Mutascio with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tim I got a couple quick questions one I'm not sure I heard you correctly.
But the sequential quarter build in the loan repurchase reserves roughly $240 million above first quarter levels would you consider it more of a onetime true of from what you're seeing from the GSEs recently? I wouldn't say it's a onetime true up Chris.
I'd love to be able to tell you that that's the case.
It may be; it may not be in terms of what we see in the future.
I think we're just continuing to be -- to want to make sure that we've got that reserve absolutely accrued for appropriately.
And we saw the agencies continuing to adjust their requests.
Again these are not specific demands.
This is in advance of demands but it's at our best expectations that what the demands are going to look like in the future.
But Chris let me say this.
Just because there's demands I mean we're going to push back.
We have a team and we look through this stuff.
And this is -- we have -- and we've been successful in the past in that but we just wanted to give you a heads-up about what's -- what we expect in the future.
But there's a whole team here that takes this very seriously.
Yes there's a lot of give-and-take in this relationship and you can see that we're good at making progress in terms of those discussions because of the fact that demands were actually down.
When we get something we work through it.
Sometimes we agree; sometimes we don't.
But it's a pretty healthy conversation.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
The TruPS were paid off late in the quarter if I did my math right.
That saves you maybe $115 million or so a year.
What about the sub-debt? What was the yield on the sub-debt the $2.2 billion that saves you in interest expense going forward? You know what Chris I'd -- to be honest with you I don't have it handy.
We'll get back to you on that.
But it was lower than -- much lower than the TruPS.
I want to say 200 300 basis points but we'll get back to you on that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But again they both happened late in the quarter so that's a bit of an offset going forward in terms of lower expense.
Correct.
I mean I think just overall the TruPS repurchase and the fact that we did it as early as we did has been a real benefit for us and will continue to be a benefit.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And can I have one final question? The securities yields were actually up 13 basis points sequentially.
Are you taking more duration risk in the current environment to get that type of yields increased sequentially? No we're not.
We're not taking any significant duration risk or any significant credit risk.
This is still a very high-quality portfolio and the duration is relatively short.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Then how does the yield go up sequentially with the rates going down? Yes fair question.
Similar to where Erika was coming out.
And that is that it was really an exchange of some very low-yield short-term very high-quality government or government agency securities in exchange for some municipals and some MBS.
Your next question will come from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask you -- first question just on expenses and I think everyone understands that better revenue outlook for the better expense outlook for the fourth quarter.
But can you at this point help us to understand how much more of an impact the Project Compass will be as we look forward into next year? There'll be seasonality obviously early next year but just from a run rate as you expect things broader picture do you guys -- can give us a sense of the magnitude of incremental saves that can still come out of the run rate? Yes fair question.
We have not begun our detailed planning for next year.
Having said that I think that we continue to see pretty significant changes that we can make as it relates to any sort of the run rate which will be Project Compass.
We also have some environmental items like higher operating losses due to litigation accruals and the like that hopefully will come out over time.
So we think we can make some progress.
And that's what one of the reasons why we've provided the range of 55% to 59% at Investor Day.
If we thought that we were at the end and we were going to be at 58% 59% we wouldn't have provided that range to 55%.
Yes and let me state we still have opportunity.
Expenses are still too high around here given the operating environment.
So we -- all hands are on deck.
We've lost none of our enthusiasm or opportunity or passion to do that.
And this is not a destination; this is a journey.
And it will continue next quarter the quarter after into next year.
But also what's important is not only Compass expenses but expenses in businesses that move up and down.
How quickly we can take mortgage costs out when mortgage -- when the refi boom ends.
And those are also critically important.
But we get this in spades and that's why we've been so public about the fact that we have opportunity here.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And my second question just relates to -- 2 questions on the loan book.
First of all I was just wondering if you guys can comment on just commercial activity your just general sense from customers out there just given the uncertainty in the environment and outlook there.
And then the second question is looked like the pace of runoff was a little bigger this quarter in that part of the portfolio.
Just what you generally expect from a pace of runoff going forward.
Yes let me take the last question first.
The pace of runoff in the commercial portfolio was impacted in some of our commercial real estate loans which drove the PCI resolution.
That was a primary diver there.
I wish I could tell you that was going to happen every quarter but I can't.
In terms of overall commercial loan demand it still seems good.
I wouldn't call it great.
I mean I think we're in the midst of a recovery.
It's a slow recovery.
But what was good from our perspective was to see a more broad-based level of loan growth in our commercial portfolio in addition to the acquisitions.
And we also saw and I mentioned it in my remarks a continued increase in line usage.
It's not significant but we bottomed in terms of line usage about a year or so ago and it's been slowly but steadily going up.
But I would call it good and it's a very competitive market.
And I should also mention that we actually had -- we saw some opportunities or some performance on the consumer side which is really healthy.
We're doing very well in auto; we did very well in small business; we did very well in card this quarter.
So that's very positive.
Because we have -- home equity is coming down.
So to show some improvement there was very encouraging.
Your next question will come from the line of Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you about the pipeline and the impact that that can have on originations.
If you look at the last couple of quarters your pipeline kind of converted into originations at about a 1.7 kind of ratio.
So in other words whatever you had in the pipeline you originated 70% more in the next quarter.
With a $102 billion pipeline would that equate to north of -- it puts you around $170 billion in originations in the next quarter.
Is that anywhere close to where you think you could see the numbers? Marty I hope that's the case.
But when you think about the conversion it's just as much as what's going to happen in terms of business this month and the beginning of August.
We've ramped up our team members in mortgage to be able to move the pipeline through as quickly as we can.
But again -- and I -- so I hope $170 billion is the right number but it could be a little bit different.
LLC Research Division</strong> The third quarter typically is a good seasonal quarter for home purchase as well.
So you at least have that kind of coming back in if we're seeing any strength there which is a positive.
Yes.
Yes.
No that's right.
LLC Research Division</strong> The other thing I was going to ask is if I calculated it right it looks like the gain on sale went from about $240 million down to around $210 million this quarter.
Is it starting to stabilize or should there -- any more return to more normal which would be just a little bit below 2%? Yes our numbers -- your numbers are actually pretty close Marty.
Our number was closer to about $220 million $225 million or so but in that zip code.
And it's remaining pretty stable.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when we go back one more try on the mortgage repurchase activity you said you had some discussions with agencies.
We had a couple other companies that took special kind of hits in the sense of reserving for future losses given better information they were getting from the agencies which really reflects an acceleration of future losses that they expect to see.
Would you kind of couch this $669 million number in that kind of range or in that kind of aspect? Marty I wouldn't want to speculate on what's going to happen in the future.
What we wanted to do was make sure that we were appropriately reserved for this quarter.
As John said there's going to be a lot of healthy conversation with the agencies on whatever future demands are going to provide.
Again these were based on conversations in which we expected future demands as opposed to specific demands.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and the last question is the 7 basis points impact from PCI on the margin is that an incremental benefit or how would that compare to last quarter? That's the incremental benefit Marty and that's why we wanted to call it out.
Your next question will come from the line of Paul Miller with FBR.
Research Division</strong> And just to follow-up on the mortgage banking side.
I can't get this out on the HARP stuff and back in your Investor Day you said HARP wasn't playing as big as a role as a lot of the media people were talking about.
Are you seeing an increase in HARP? Are you still in that category that you're not seeing a lot of HARP loans coming through the pipeline? Yes Paul good question.
What we were referring to at Investor Day was the media reports at the time that indicated that the HARP margins were outsized relative to the rest of the originations which wasn't the case then and isn't the case now.
The fundings have actually been pretty stable in terms of -- I think we at Investor Day we might have said 15%.
16%.
Now it's 16% now.
And that's about -- it just seems pretty stable in that percentage.
I mean it could go up or down a few percentage but 16% is a pretty good number.
Now for others that might be higher as a percentage because they do less other things.
The denominator is different.
But for us it's been pretty flat.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then I don't know because I've been running around all day this morning with JPMorgan but did you guys talk about -- a little bit about have you seen any decline at all? Because a lot of people have been talking about the refi index as being down.
But we're hearing mixed reviews out there that if the flow or the demand is really going down out there in the month of July.
We haven't published any of the July information.
But as of just a couple of weeks ago with the pipeline that we have things -- the business is good and we're optimistic about it.
Very optimistic.
Your next question will come from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I understand the long-term: you had your whole Investor Day; and I understand the short-term mortgage: you're very optimistic.
It's the medium term: if and when mortgage slows what fills that bucket? What replaces that? Could there be kind of an oh no! quarter where mortgage slows and you haven't cut the expenses yet? Well Mike we could always an oh no! quarter.
This is a volatile business that we're in for sure.
I think that when you’re looking at the history of the company we've had a profitable mortgage business for decades.
But within that profitability we've had a lot of cycles.
We understand that the mortgage business is a very cyclical business particularly when you look at the refi cycles that we've had over the past few years.
And I would just point to the fact that while I can't promise this is going to be the case while we've printed 10 consecutive quarters of earnings growth we've had ups and downs in the mortgage business.
And I think what that reflects is the benefit of the fact that we've got a very diversified business model all right? The mortgage business is important to us.
But when you look at the percentage of mortgage revenues for last year and the year before it goes down because we're growing the rest of the business quite nicely.
So I can't tell you specifically what would take the place of the decline in mortgage revenues which will occur.
We know that's going to happen because it's unlikely that we'll continue at this pace for the medium term as you point out.
But we do believe that because we saw loan growth in many of our portfolios we saw fee growth in many of the businesses that we can continue to grow even in the medium term.
Yes and Mike I've -- and Tim's absolutely right in that.
But even within the mortgage business think about it.
We are already seeing more purchase volume activity and the business is balanced pretty nicely between the servicing side and the origination side.
So when originations tend to ebb the servicing tends to do better.
So I mean -- so there's a whole bunch of stuff.
And there's -- we always say there's lots of different horses pulling this coach and one pulls harder when the other one doesn't pull as hard.
So that's the beauty of this balanced business model.
But Mike we will not stretch for something.
If -- I mean that we -- it's just not in our culture to do that.
So if we happen to have something that goes down one quarter that's life.
Research Division</strong> And what if -- if you're not pulling as much in the coach what about you eliminating a couple of horses to stretch the analogy? We're trimming manes all the time.
Research Division</strong> But you're -- within range of your efficiency target how quickly would you be able to take out the mortgage expenses if you see mortgage slowing? Is that one quarter is it 5 quarters? That's a very fair question.
And we’ve become I think really really good at how to deal with -- how to make what would traditionally been more permanent expenses variable in that business.
So we do -- we have lots of skill in that area.
But it can’t happen in one week I mean but we're always looking for improvements in how to become much more variable in expenses that used to be more fixed.
Your next question will come from the line of Greg with UBS.
Research Division</strong> One on the mortgage production outlook at least as best as you can tell at this point when you think about the sources in a HARP 2.0 you had mentioned 15% to 16% of production.
Then there's also the other refi volume.
As you look at those opportunities going forward is there a percent of eligible refinance that you feel like you've worked through and there's a percent remaining that we'll see over the next couple of quarters? We talk about that right all the time.
We talk to our mortgage folks about that all the time.
But it's -- that's a really really hard number to come up with with any specificity.
So I wouldn't want to throw out something and then you guys take our market share of that and then assume that we're going to get that over the next few quarters.
I hope we do but I'm not confident enough on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there a sense there with this refi opportunity between HARP 2.0 and the sensitivity around rate changes where there could be additional refinancing that the cycle has at least a couple of quarters’ legs left in it and we should see production levels stay relatively strong? Well I hope that's the case.
And given that we start this quarter with a pretty strong pipeline we think that will be the case for the near term.
I do think that one of the differences about this refinancing cycle which I think is where you're going and it's right on point is that because of some of these other programs it's going to create a little bit more of a foundation in terms of demand for a longer period of time.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on share repurchases with the 53 million done and 11 million forward is there any view that you can provide in terms of additional share repurchase activity for the rest of this year? Yes fair question.
I want to point out that we were not able to purchase shares in the first quarter of this year just like we weren't able in the first quarter of last year just because of the timing of the CCAR process.
So when you look at the share repurchase that we did in the second quarter I wouldn't necessarily multiply that by 2 to get what we're going to do in the third and the fourth quarter.
But what -- we are going to continue to repurchase shares.
We've got the ability to do it.
We continue to believe our shares are undervalued.
And we're going to continue to be in the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then last question was there any debt valuation adjustment that was significant in the quarter? No.
Your next question will come from the line of Fred Cannon with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just really a follow -- one follow-up question on the Tim your comment concerning the securities yields.
You mentioned that the reason for the security yield increase was on the agent -- was because of the prepayment on agency securities.
But it was in the residence -- it was in the non-agency securities on the mortgage-backed that we saw the linked quarter increase in the yield and I was wondering if -- what might be going on there.
Well it's a function of -- you're talking about the line item that says securities of U.S.
states and political subdivisions is that the one? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> No under mortgage-backed securities you've got the line item federal agencies and then you've got residential and commercial which I'm assuming is non-agency MBS and that's the line item where you saw the yield increase.
Yes I would just describe that as just more of a mix in terms of individual securities.
There's nothing special that's going on there.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> But over time that 6.97% yield should -- we should expect that to decline if you're taking less risk; is that fair? Oh I think Fred as we talked about I think where we have the biggest impact in terms of yields is in our AFS book and it's under pressure and that's one of the drivers of our concern about the NIM.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I was just -- I think we had a linked quarter increase of 17 basis points there but -- so that's just more of a one quarter blip we should think of rather than a trend? I wish I could tell you that's going to continue but I don't think that's going to be the case.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> One other question on the mortgage business.
In the DOJ announcement yesterday it said that you would discontinue funding mortgages at originated price and sold by independent mortgage brokers through your wholesale channel.
I was wondering how much of the wholesale channel that is that you're shutting that down and kind of any reasons behind that.
Well in terms of the percentage it was about 5% of our originations.
So that the...
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And you're shutting down that entire 5%.
That's correct.
We're going to take applications through today and then there's a time period by which we need to get that information they need to close by.
But that's correct; we're exiting that portion of the business.
Your next question will come from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Following up actually on the mortgage business.
So you are shutting the wholesale channel like you said about 5%.
At the Investor Day you talked a little bit about having picked up all the market share in correspondent but wondering whether you were going to kind of keep it there.
Can you talk a little bit about what your thoughts are; if they've changed any? And also whether the industry as a whole has been quick or slow to add capacity and whether you think that is good for kind of pricing going forward? I think in terms of our view on the correspondent business it really hasn't changed.
We think it's a good business.
As we've had -- as we mentioned on Investor Day I think Mike Heid did a really good job of kind walking through the opportunities that we've had over the past year in particular in terms of adding correspondents and we've been very careful to make sure that we add the right correspondents.
We have long strong relationships with a number of correspondents and again we like the business.
In terms of adding staff to be able to process the volume we've had I mean these have been unprecedented times in terms of how quickly volume has changed.
And we've been adding folks to be able to underwrite and process these as quickly as we can and we'll continue to do that.
But like -- at the same time when volume starts to decline we need to be ready to reduce too.
But there's nothing different going on here.
You just need to make sure that you've got sustained volume before you add a lot of people.
And just maybe -- just so we're all on the same wavelength here.
The wholesale that we're turning down is different from correspondent.
Correspondent is where you know the actual date when they close on.
This is where the loan is priced and originated but we close it and that's the part -- the wholesale piece that that we couldn't be sure of what price is.
Research Division</strong> So risk management it's a risk management decision.
Exactly.
It's many different things so -- and...
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
But it just feels like the industry has been a little slower to add costs and capacity this cycle would you agree with that or...
No I wouldn't say that at all.
I think it's a...
Your next question will come from the line of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> So just 2 quick questions just to sort of help us with sort of the forecasting outlook a little bit.
When I'm thinking about operating costs and I'm looking at that $524 million of operating losses and I understand why it was high in each of the last 2 quarters but is there any particular reason that that should stay at this level or is it reasonable to expect that number to come down fairly significantly in subsequent quarters? I think one way to think about it Ed is if you look back on how that's gone up and down over the last year for example you've seen quarters where it's been $200 million $300 million lower.
And we're hoping right that those operating losses will go down as we continue to put any sort of particularly legal -- open legal issue behind us.
So I hope that's the case.
Research Division</strong> But the vast vast majority of that number is litigation accrual correct? A good portion of it is but we're generally not specific in terms of exactly how much of it is related to litigation accruals.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondarily when I'm thinking about net interest margin and you talked about the extra 7 basis points primarily from the extra PCI loan resolution income it seems like you're sort of alluding to the idea that you could get additional margin pressure off of sort of a 3 84 starting point as opposed to a 3 91 starting point.
First question I guess is is that the right way to think about it? And second question is as you look at the PCI portfolio should we think it's reasonably likely to expect future quarters where we’ll see some meaningful resolution income? Well in answer to your last question we're hopeful that we get meaningful resolution income every quarter.
But -- and there's still more to get right? We're not done with the PCI loan portfolio.
Having said that you hit the nail on the head.
That's why we called out the 7 basis points right that without that we would have been in the mid-3 80s.
And we know where yields are today on securities in particular.
But again I think you got to put it in the context of the fact that the majority of our earning assets 70% 75% plus our loans and the yields are within a reasonable range.
While we're having the biggest -- we have the biggest impact is on our securities portfolio.
But you're right.
I think thinking about this in kind of a mid 3 80 number and having some downside from there is a fair way to look at it.
At this time there are no further questions.
Okay well thank you very much for joining us for our second quarter call and we'll talk to you 90 days from now.
Thank you very much.
Bye-bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.