Good morning and welcome to Whirlpool Corporation's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Director of Investor Relations Greg Fritz.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Misty and good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Whirlpool Corporation First Quarter Conference Call.
Joining me today are Jeff Fettig our Chairman and CEO; Mike Todman President of Whirlpool International; Marc Bitzer President of Whirlpool North America; and Larry Venturelli Corporate Controller and Chief Financial Officer for Whirlpool International.
Roy Templin our Chief Financial Officer is unable to join the call today because of a family medical emergency that requires his attention.
Before we begin let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements to assist you in understanding Whirlpool’s future expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially from these statements due to the many factors discussed in our latest 10-K and 10-Q.
Turning to Slide 2.
We want to remind you that today's presentation includes non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures are important indicators of our operations as they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to our core operating results.
We also think that the adjusted measures will provide you with a better baseline for analyzing trends in our underlying business.
Listeners are directed to the Appendix section of our presentation on Slide 26 for a reconciliation of the non-GAAP items to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
Our remarks today track with the presentation available on the Investors section of our website at whirlpoolcorp.com.
With that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Well good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
As you saw earlier this morning we released our first quarter financial results and these results can be seen on Slide 4.
For the quarter sales grew to $4.4 billion in revenues which was a 3% increase from last year.
Our earnings per share were $2.17 versus $2.13 a year ago.
Our first quarter results do reflect a number of factors impacting our business operations and I would like to summarize those factors.
First is demand.
Overall global demand was largely in line with our expectations with our shipments being impacted by a very positive response by consumers to our new product innovations.
Second material and oil-related increases were significantly higher and had a negative impact on our margins.
And lastly our Price Margin Realization was down 2.3 points versus last year but did improve by 0.9 of a point to the fourth quarter of 2010.
Overall our margins and sales were largely in line with our expectations for the quarter.
Our ongoing cost reduction efforts and continued innovation investments during the quarter did positively impact our results.
These actions helped to mitigate the significant material cost inflation that we saw.
I think it's important to note that on a sequential basis as I mentioned our price/mix was positive and our margins expanded by 1.2 points versus the fourth quarter last year.
And we clearly expect to build upon this trend throughout the balance of the year.
I'll now turn to Slide 5 where I'd like to review our industry demand expectations in our key markets around the world.
In the U.S.
first quarter demand was slightly negative with industry shipments declining about 1%.
This is essentially in line with our previous expectation of negative demand in the first half of the year followed by positive demand in the second half of the year.
And as we mentioned on the last call this was largely due to the first half 2010 comparisons which had higher demand driven by both the Cash for Appliances program and the housing credit program.
We will be comping against the strongest months versus last year in April and May.
And as such we expect to see negative U.S.
industry shipment trends during the second quarter followed by year-over-year growth improvement in demand in the second half of the year.
And for the full year we still keep the same growth forecast that we talked about before.
Turning to Europe.
We continue to see steady industry demand growth from the 2% to 4% range.
In Latin America the first quarter demand was flat versus last year.
We here too have some challenging comparables particularly in Brazil as the appliance tax holiday ended during the first quarter of 2010.
We continue to expect full year industry demand to increase in the 5% to 10% range.
And in Asia we saw a continued growth although we did see some slowing in the growth rate of demand during the first quarter as we saw unseasonably cold-weather in India which is the largest market for us in Asia which impacted our shipments during the quarter.
Overall however we continue to see good demand fundamentals across the region and we expect this will result in a full year bond increase in the 6% to 8% range.
Turning to Slide 6.
I would like to discuss the key drivers which we see affecting our business for the full year in 2011.
As we mentioned last time we continue to see -- face some challenging macroeconomic environment in terms of raw material costs.
We have now forecast and expect raw materials and oil-related cost inflation to be in the $400 million to $450 million range.
This represents $150 million increase from our previous expectations.
We do expect to fully offset these increases by continued strong and improving productivity throughout the year.
As you know and as we've seen in the past many of our productivity initiatives ramp up through the year and we expect to have a very strong second half of results from these productivity initiatives and other cost-reduction actions.
The second factor which will enable us to offset these material cost increases are many of our previously announced global cost-based price increases which take place or go into effect largely throughout the second quarter of this year.
These increases coupled with the benefits of margin improvements from our new product innovations will result in improved price mix results in the second quarter and positive year-over-year price margin realization in the second half of the year.
So in summary putting all these factors together we're reconfirming our previous full year earnings guidance of $12 to $13 a share and free cash flow guidance of $400 million to $500 million.
As I stated earlier in the year I believe we have a very strong foundation in our global operations and I believe more opportunities than ever before create value for our shareholders.
Over the last couple of years as we have emerged from the global recession we've significantly strengthened our financial position and expect to continue to do this -- continue to improve upon this in 2011.
Based on this strong financial position last week we increased our dividends to shareholders by 16%.
This is a reflection that increasing our returns to shareholders is clearly in our business priorities in 2011 and beyond.
At this point in time I'd like to turn it over to Marc Bitzer for his review of our North American operations.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Let me start by giving my perspective in North America's performance for the quarter.
As shown on Slide 8 we saw our unit shipments up 4% from the first quarter [indiscernible] which was down slightly less than 1%.
During the quarter we saw a continued healthy momentum in our brand and overall market share.
And also during the quarter we have somewhat reduced our promotion intensity and we have implemented our cost-based price increase which has been in effect since April 7.
Despite low production levels to correct high inventory we have solid productivity gains in Q1.
On Slide 9 you'll see North America's performance in the first quarter.
Net sales of $2.3 billion were up slightly from the prior year and our adjusted operating margin was 2.3% compared to 6.2% in the prior year.
Results are favorably impacted by cost reduction productivity initiatives and foreign exchange fluctuations.
The factors offsetting results were one lower year-over-year product price mix; and two higher material costs.
It is important to note that we had favorable price/mix on a sequential Q4 to Q1 base.
On Slide 10 you can see just a few of our new products that we launched during the quarter.
Before I highlight these new launches I would like to briefly discuss some recent product leadership recognition.
In January as evidence of our North American leadership position we received top ratings for 11 of our latest top and front-loading washing models by a leading consumer publication.
The Whirlpool brand Ceres and Vantage washers are rated #1 in the front- and top-loading categories respectively.
The Maytag Maxima taking the #2 spot in front load.
In addition our cooking category saw a rating sweep of #1 in recommended double-oven freestanding ranges in the recent rankings by a leading consumer publication.
Our Whirlpool Maytag and KitchenAid brands received three powerful ratings from a leading consumer magazine in February receiving top ratings on select double-oven range model.
Now turning back to some of our recent new product launches and these include a Whirlpool brand induction cooktop which utilizes its electromagnetic energy to generate instant heat to only the cookware touching its surface.
Occasionally brand four-door French Door bottom mount refrigerator featuring an external refrigerated drawer and the largest of its kind.
Also shown here is our KitchenAid brand dual-fuel range that was launched in the fourth quarter and was just named the #1 30-inch dual-fuel range by a leading consumer publication.
I'm also pleased to tell you that the Harris Poll has just identified KitchenAid as the Brand of the Year for major appliances small appliance brand based on a study of 25 000 U.S.
consumers.
These recent rankings are just hard evidence not only of the strength of our brand portfolio but also the value we bring to consumers through consumer-relevant innovations designed to meet their specific needs.
Now before I turn over to Mike let me highlight what we're focused on the remainder of the year.
As Jeff mentioned our full year U.S.
industry forecast for 2% to 3% growth is unchanged.
We expect Q2 industry demand to show slight year-over-year decline largely due to challenging comps given the Cash for Appliances program in the previous year.
We continue to expect positive comps as we move into the second half of the year.
Our Q1 operating margins improved on a sequential basis and we remained focused on continuing and accelerating this trend through the pricing actions which we have previously announced and a strong focus on driving additional productivity gains.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Mike for his review of international operations.
Thanks Marc.
Let me start with the first quarter 2011 review of our international business on Slide 12.
During the quarter we saw the following trends for our regional businesses: In our Europe Middle East and Africa region we saw continued gradual improvement in the market conditions although the market in Western Europe remains challenging; in Latin America unit volumes were essentially flat due to the comparison of the IPI [Impostos sobre Produtos] tax holiday which ended during the first quarter of last year.
We therefore expect the volume trend to improve in the second quarter and in the remainder of the year.
The fundamental drivers in Latin America remain intact.
And in Asia demand remains positive although we will continue to monitor the impact inflation has on consumer spending.
In addition unseasonably cold weather in India has delayed purchases of their treatment products and refrigerators.
Given the significant material cost inflation we are experiencing I wanted to discuss our price/mix trends across the international businesses.
On a year-over-year basis we did experience a modest decline in price/mix.
However on a sequential basis our price/mix improved by over a full percentage point.
This improvement reflects our strong focus on managing our key operational levers to mitigate the challenging cost inflation environment.
Turning to Slide 13.
In the first quarter our Europe Middle East and Africa sales improved 1% year-over-year to $743 million with unit shipments increasing 2%.
The region reported an operating profit of $25 million during the first quarter compared to an operating profit of $27 million in the previous year.
Results were unfavorably impacted by lower product price/mix and higher material cost partially offset by cost reduction and productivity initiatives.
On a sequential basis we experienced an improvement in price/mix despite the expected year-over-year decline.
Slide 14 shows the summary of our Latin America first quarter results.
The region reported sales of $1.2 billion an 8% increase from the prior-year period with appliance unit shipments essentially flat from the prior year period.
Excluding the impact from currency sales increased approximately 2%.
Operating profits totaled $174 million compared to $167 million in the prior year.
The profitability improvement is primarily related to increased modernization of certain tax credits and cost reduction and productivity initiatives.
These favorable items were offset by higher material costs.
Our first quarter results in Asia are shown on Slide 15.
Net sales increased 8% during the quarter to $208 million up from $192 million in the prior year period as unit shipments increased 3%.
Excluding the impact of currency sales increased approximately 6%.
Operating profit of $11 million for the quarter was essentially equal to the prior year period.
Favorable volume growth and product price/mix was offset by higher material costs.
Turning to Slide 16.
You'll see just a few of our international product launches during the quarter.
These products have been well received in the marketplace and we expect the rapid uptake of innovation to continue throughout the rest of the year.
A line of Brastemp brand retro refrigerators and ranges in Latin America featuring the distinctive visual appeal of the 1950s with modern functionality and sensibilities.
The Whirlpool brand Ceres washing machine in China featuring deep cleaning performance and LED lighting in the washer tub for nighttime use.
And a Whirlpool brand 3-door refrigerator in China featuring a consumer designed red glass door and a Class 1 energy label.
Now I'd to turn the call over to Larry Venturelli for his financial review.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Beginning on Slide 18 I'd like to summarize our first quarter results.
For the quarter our sales grew 3% to $4.4 billion appliance unit volume increased 2.7% from the prior year led by North America.
We continue to benefit from higher productivity and cost reduction initiatives during the quarter.
The rate of improvement however was unfavorably impacted by lower production levels as we worked to balance inventory levels.
We monetized $66 million of BEFIEX credits compared to $41 million in the prior year.
It's important to note however that during the prior year we experienced a reduction in BEFIEX monetization due to the IPI tax holiday legislated by the Brazilian government which expired on February 1 2010.
These favorable effects were more than offset by lower price/mix and higher material costs.
Turning to the income statement on Slide 19.
You'll note that our gross margin contracted 90 basis points to 14.1%.
The most significant unfavorable impacts on our gross margin were lower product price/mix and higher material costs.
These were partially offset by cost takeout and productivity actions and as I previously mentioned higher BEFIEX credit monetization.
SG&amp;A expense totaled $380 million compared with $371 million in the prior year.
The majority of the dollar increase in SG&amp;A was related to foreign currency translation as a percentage of sales SG&amp;A was down slightly from the prior year.
Restructuring expenses totaled $8 million during the quarter and resulted from cost-reduction actions in Europe and North America.
For 2011 we continue to expect to record restructuring charges of between $75 million and $100 million.
Our GAAP reported operating margin declined approximately 40 basis points to 5.2% and on an adjusted basis our operating margins contracted approximately 1.7 points.
There's one additional item I'd like to highlight.
During the quarter we recorded a $7 million benefit as a result of lower-than-expected costs associated with the product recall we announced in 2010.
This resulted in a benefit of $0.06 per diluted share in the quarter.
Turning to Slide 20.
I wanted to briefly discuss interest and sundry expense.
While several individual line items roll under this caption on the income statement the key year-over-year variance was lower foreign currency exchange gains in the current year quarter.
Now turning to our tax rate.
We recorded an income tax credit of $24 million corresponding to an effective tax benefit of approximately 15.5%.
The first quarter benefit was greater than the prior year due to higher tax credits.
And during the first quarter we recorded $54 million of energy tax credits and for the full year we expect between $300 million to $350 million of tax credits and expect to record an effective tax benefit at approximately the same level as our full year 2010 benefit.
Finally we reported diluted EPS of $2.17 per share compared to $2.13 per share in the prior year.
And on an adjusted basis diluted EPS was $2.11 per share compared with $2.51 per share in the prior year.
Moving to our free cash flow results on Slide 21.
We recorded a free cash flow use of $336 million during the first quarter compared to $74 million in the prior year.
The main variances from the prior year relate to lower cash earnings and unfavorable working capital variances.
The working capital variances compared with the first quarter of 2010 were predominantly the result of unfavorable accounts payable variances due to production reductions implemented to reduce our inventory balances.
These unfavorable variances were partially offset by lower capital spending which totaled $115 million and was 21% below the prior year level.
The reduction was largely due to the higher level of major product launches that occurred in the first quarter of 2010.
For 2011 we continue to anticipate our capital spending to be between $600 million and $650 million.
Now turning to Slide 22.
I'd like to discuss our 2011 outlook.
As you read this morning in our press release our EPS and free cash flow outlook is unchanged.
While there are many moving parts in our outlook the most significant unfavorable trends have been in the areas of material and oil-related costs.
The market prices for base metal and oil-related commodities have risen sharply since the beginning of February.
Assuming that the recent price levels hold we would anticipate an unfavorable impact approximately $150 million greater than our prior outlook.
We expect to offset this increase in commodity cost through higher productivity and cost reduction initiatives.
Overall our volume assumptions and price/mix assumptions remain relatively unchanged from our prior guidance in February.
Turning to free cash flow.
We continue to expect to generate free cash flow on the range of $400 million to $500 million during 2011.
Our assumptions of U.S.
cash pension contributions of approximately $300 million also remains unchanged and we made a significant portion of this contribution at the beginning of April.
Finally turning to Slide 23.
I'll close my remarks by discussing the cash flow priorities for the business.
As you may have noted we continue to make strong progress towards our near-term goal of returning to the BBB rating level.
In fact Fitch raised our rating to BBB during the first quarter and Moody increased our outlook to positive.
Given this progress and our current outlook we raised our quarterly dividend by over 16%.
We will continue to balance funding all aspects of our business including capital expenditures return to shareholders pension contributions current debt maturities and potential legal contingencies to ensure the best long-term value creation for our share orders.
Now I'll turn it back over to Jeff.
Thank you Larry.
To summarize through the first quarter I would say that we're largely on track to deliver our full year 2011 forecast which when achieved would represent record performance for our company.
As I previously mentioned we do still see a rather volatile global economy with changes taking place in all parts of the world.
Overall demand trends are choppy as they have been for the last couple of quarters but with a continued overall upward improvement trend.
Material and oil-related costs as we've mentioned here have rapidly escalated.
In many cases to new high levels and this is despite an overall moderation in global growth.
These costs trends remain our primary challenge in 2011 and again to address these trends we continue to drive very strong productivity cost reduction actions and we're very confident we'll have another very strong year of productivity improvements.
At the same time we have announced price increases in most parts of the world and expect these actions will have a positive impact on our business beginning in the second quarter and increasing through the second half of the year.
And finally I think very importantly we remain very committed to growing our revenue through our continued strong gains of new product introduction under our leading global brands.
We see even in today's environment consumers who want and will pay for truly relevant innovation.
These actions we believe will enable us to achieve or exceed our revenue growth target of 5% to 7% and earnings growth target of 10% to 15%.
In addition we expect to deliver another strong year of free cash flow in 2011.
Achieving this will enable us to deliver record level overall performance for our shareholders.
At this point in time I'd like to open this up for any questions that you may have.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Ken Zener with KeyBanc Capital.
Marc you mentioned reducing promotion can you just kind of walk us through perhaps the different levers that you're likely to see or we're likely to see as consumers so we might still see the same 10% 15% retail the discount but perhaps the price is higher or perhaps the manufacturer is not contributing as much to that retail effort? And again it's Marc Bitzer and let me just try to respond to that from a North America perspective.
As we said in our previous earnings call we expect and anticipate that during Q1 we would reduce our promotional activity compared to Q4.
I mean Q4 obviously marked a very very promotion intense period beyond just the Black Friday holiday period.
We have done that and yet we have significant lower promotion expense in Q1 resulting ultimately in a slight improvement of our sequential price/mix.
The effect of a price increase are obviously not captioning to one because that was only effective April 7 and we knew that going in.
It's obviously a bit more difficult to expect what retailers will do and they determine their own set of promotions.
At the same time we have also announced a so-called new MAP [Minimum Advertised Price] policy which somewhat limits the promotion intensity on our brands in the marketplace.
Okay.
And I guess related to the dramatic -- the 54% increase that we've seen in material costs from just a few months ago can you obviously holding guidance it seems like some of the positives were that the U.S.
tax credit might have creeped up a little bit.
I assume BEFIEX is sitting the same at $200 million.
So can you talk about how you're able to accelerate the material or the productivity and price initiatives to offset that material cost and still hold the restructuring costs the same? This is Jeff I will do that.
First of all we said in early February the energy tax credits would be approximately $300 million.
This was based on legislation that passed very late in December.
Clearly 2.5 months later we have a better view of the models and products and how they're selling so that's why we -- nothing has really changed other than we have a little bit better visibility to put a range around that approximately $300 million which we have which is $300 million to $350 million.
But that aside the BEFIEX is in essence roughly the same.
We look to offset -- grew through operations the $150 million increase in raw materials.
And it is a combination of accelerating what was already a strong level of productivity we think we will get even more out of that initiating new cost reduction activities which we have either done or are putting in place.
And since we talked in February we have announced in many markets around the world more price increases in different markets globally.
So I think it's really -- the direct answer to your question is we do expect to offset that through both productivity and the additional price increases that we have announced across the world.
And we'll take our next question from Sam Darkatsh with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> A couple of quick questions.
First off what was the year-on-year material inflation in the quarter? And then how does that progress to that inflation on the P&amp;L as we go through the year? Yes Sam it's Larry.
Year-over-year from a material headwinds perspective the headwinds essentially were about $94 million on a year-over-year basis.
And they will essentially if you think about it evenly across the 3 quarters it's going to be spread relatively evenly.
Yes it's roughly done  -- first half is roughly the same and second half is roughly the same proportion to sales.
So probably $45 million $55 million.
Inc.</strong> And two more quick questions.
First off is there a chance of steel resetting in 2011 if it continues to rise or that's not an issue? Well Sam steel is still largely a regional marketplace and as we discussed in the past and North America and Europe we typically enter into annual agreements with -- could be a flat price could be some parameters and so on.
Those are intact and Latin America and Asia are daily weekly monthly purchases.
So I don't see anything to suggest that we'd see a radical change in our steel assumptions.
Inc.</strong> Last question and I'll defer to others.
You noted in the quarter that you took some production down to get the inventories a little bit more in line can you help us reconcile that with the fact that the inventories are still both on a year-on-year and sequential basis moving considerably higher than sales are? Well Sam first of all this is Jeff and then before I give you the particulars.
But yes we talked about the particularly somewhat slower market in the fourth quarter particularly North America last year we took out a significant amount of production which had a negative impact on our earnings in the first quarter.
I think overall we reduced production close to 600 000 units in the quarter.
And exit the quarter I think in pretty good shape.
Larry you might give the particulars on that the seasonal products and that sort of stuff.
Yes Sam.
If you kind of look from Q4 inventories increased $150 million.
A couple of things to keep in mind is about 1/3 of that is strictly due to foreign currency with the euro and rial strengthening.
Third is as you know we've got higher costs and the remaining 1/3 is seasonal inventory build primarily in our international locations.
And you also know that normally in the first quarter we will build between $150 million to $200 million of inventory.
You'll know that we built significantly less this quarter.
As Marc mentioned in his script we did take some down days within North America to get the North American inventories down a little bit more.
Inc.</strong> So Larry where would you peg inventories by year end then? I think the targeting -- that 2 6 area would be about where we're targeting Sam.
Of course depending on sales and costs and so on.
But our inventories are pretty good shape coming through -- Q1 if assuming our demand assumptions are correct we're in pretty good shape going into the second quarter.
And the other thing to remember is a year ago we had serious component shortages and we were actually under inventory particularly in North America.
Yes that's a great point.
You remember Jeff said really low inventories in Latin America and North America as we entered the year and we spent a good part of the first half of the year building inventories up for availability.
So that's another reason why you've seen a higher year-over-year inventories.
We will take our next question from Josh Pollard with Goldman Sachs.
We're all aware of the U.S.
price increase but could you quantify the price increases in each of your regions and the realization that you've seen so far? Josh typically we wouldn't quantify them in a dollar amount.
I guess I would just say that [indiscernible] they're buried.
We talked about an 8% to 10% in the U.S.
starting in April and ramping up through the quarter.
We've added 7 price increases in India already since November.
Every market is a little bit different.
I guess the way I would look at it is the overall net realized price increases and the expectation of being able to drive productivity offset material costs and then delve into earnings would kind of give you a good idea of how much price we think that is.
But certainly we expect it for the full year to be positive.
We start off with the first quarter negative versus last year and we expect to have that positive for the full year.
So without trying to be -- I'm not trying to be cute here it's just for competitive reasons we don't give out the exact number per region in the market.
This is Larry just a little bit of color and I think Jeff and Marc mentioned this.
If you look at Q4 to Q1 and you look at price/mix you saw the improvement of around 0.5 point.
I would say you had stronger improvement within international and then the North America we saw an improvement also.
So that I'll give you an indication at least sequentially and again these price increases are just going into effect also.
And then I guess a follow-up to that question is are you guys willing to talk about the level of realization that you're seeing so far on your U.S.
price increase? And then the second part of my overall question that's in and around margins is can you walk through the 3 largest cost productivity measures and how much each of them are saving the company this year? I ask because the biggest concern among your potential investor is how exactly the company plans to offset the $400 million to $450 million increase in materials.
Josh it's Marc Bitzer.
Let me first take U.S.
pricing.
As we have publicly announced we have a price increase of 8% to 10% that was announced late January early February.
This effect in April 7.
Bear in mind that price increase does not affect every single SKU and for certain OEM products which are excluded at this point or have separate timelines.
So obviously only a portion of that falls through a net price realization.
As we announced before we basically in our invoicing live April 7.
Yes we do see it in invoicing and we're very confident that we will stick to it.
Josh this is Jeff.
On the cost productivity I'd make a couple of comments.
First of all we've had now for a number of years as we have significantly improved the rate of productivity have a global cost productivity program permanently in place in all of our global operations.
So the fact of the matter is we're getting costs productivity through every part of the business both product material logistics quality SG&amp;A and so on.
So at a macro level it's across all the U.S.
for the top 3.
And I'd say first and foremost is our materials because it is -- the biggest cost center is material productivity.
We get this through new product designs which you've seen a lot of.
These products I've said in the past not only are better performance better energy better designs but they're typically 10% to 15% less material cost content.
The second coupled with both new product designs and the existing design is global commonality of parts which reduces complexity reduces inventories reduces costs per unit and we continue to get great benefit from that.
The third I would say is conversion.
We continue to be highly productive in our factories on an equal volume-to-volume basis.
I would say we're operating at record levels of conversion productivity in most parts of the world.
And of course we're getting still benefits flowing from past restructuring actions.
So I would say our predictability at a gross level productivity is very high.
The surprise early in the year has been on the raw material inflation which we've seen and we've seen coming throughout the quarter and we've adjusted for it.
And then the last question would just be BEFIEX for the year you said similar but with $66 million coming through in the first quarter it seems like either there's an anomaly in the first quarter or you guys are on pace to do something substantially above $200 million is there upside risk to that $200 million? Josh it is -- again the way BEFIEX work in Brazil it's based on volume of certain product categories and different product categories earn or have attached to them the IPI tax credit.
So it really depends on volume and mix of product and there are significant variances.
So I would just say that Q1 was actually lower than Q4.
It was higher than last year because we had a full month rule where we didn't have any.
So on a comparable basis to last year it's about -- the run rate is about the same.
So the number the $200 million is not an exact number it could go up or down based on overall demand and mix.
So at this point in time we don't see anything there that could change the general guidance we gave which is around $200 million.
Operator can we go to the next question please.
Absolutely.
We'll take our next question from David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
I guess just ask the previous question maybe a little bit differently your competitor on their earlier call this morning indicated they're getting 4% traction in North American pricing.
Are you doing better than that? David it's Marc Bitzer.
I can't comment on the competitors quote on pricing.
I know what we announced and I know what we implement in April 1 -- or April 7 and that is so far perfectly on track.
Okay.
Can you talk about the earnings per share impact of the curtailments in the first quarter? Of the curtailment David? Yes please.
So you had $29 million and I think you want tax effect of that from a curtailment perspective it's probably about $0.23 gain last year we don't have this year.
And on the promotional environment Marc you had mentioned that your intention is to dial down the promotional activity.
I'm wondering if you really can control that.
If we end up in more competitive sales events around Memorial Day and July 4 are you really going to be able to dial it down and risk losing share? Or is the share more important to you and you just have to respond to competitive actions? David it's Marc.
First of all as a matter of fact we in aspect no way control that the retail effect of pricing and we have through our co-op advertising policy certain incentives that they adhere to with what we call a MAP policy based on the promotion environment the promotion calendar.
Having said that we in our core advertising policy have reduced the promotional activities to 10% off or 15% off ENERGY STAR and that has gone live April 1 as has been communicated.
But again a retailer can override that or change that but then they run risk of losing certain co-op advertising support.
Having said all that we do expect with all these price increase that we've seen in Q1 that some of the promotions end of Q4 have been moderated.
And I think the year will show how the rest of the year would turn out.
And David this is Jeff we've been I think pretty clear in our earlier call and our priorities expand our operations margins.
And particularly in environment where raw materials have been escalating like they have we're not chasing share we're gaining our share which by the way is very strong in the U.S.
through the success of our new product innovations and not on spot promotional activities.
So that's kind of the path we've committed to and we're going to stay to.
Okay last question just if you could give us your thoughts on consolidation in Latin America in retail and the extent to which that's expected to adversely impact your business in the second half of this year? David this is Mike Todman.
We actually the consolidation occurred actually last year and what we have done is expanded our distribution across all of retail.
So the fact of the matter is we've been able to manage both sales and volumes even given the consolidation and frankly the new combined entity is still a very strong partner for us.
And so we don't expect to see any significant change in our business because of the consolidation.
So there wouldn't be any negative repercussions in terms of the profitability of that business they wouldn't lean on you for more promotional support or any of the other ways that this could play out? No.
And David I mean I'm not going to talk about any contract negotiations we have with them.
But the fact of the matter is we're keeping the right balance in our business across [indiscernible] result.
And David the only thing I'd add is again as a reminder Brastemp and Consul are the #1 and #2 most preferred brands in the Brazilian market.
They are too the constant chains of innovation great preferred brands and continuous innovation are I think the key elements to make sure that you both are able to grow your business and maintain or improve your margins.
And it's no different now than it was before.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
First question just want to make sure I have the numbers right on the price/mix negative year-over-year impact.
In the first quarter in North America for 1Q and can you remind us for 4Q? For North America? Right.
Yes on a year-over-year basis let me walk through it for you from an operating profit perspective.
Operating profit down about 1.5.
Positive side of that is productivity was up over 2 points.
We mentioned earlier that we had onetime charges last year contributing to about 2 points this year.
Price/mix was negative by about 4 points and then material headwinds was negative a couple of points also on a year-over-year basis.
But for the overall comparison we said for the full -- year-over-year which was our highest price/mix level last year.
Right.
We're down...
So on a sales basis for first quarter price/mix was negative 4 points you said? Yes Mike it's Marc Bitzer.
Both negative year-over-year 4 points and a sequential base target 4.6 4.7 in that ballpark.
And globally it was negative 2.3 and positive 0.9 on a sequential basis.
Okay.
The second question on share I was wondering if you could drill down a little bit more so you were up 4% in volume versus the industry slightly negative I believe and so if you could kind of maybe get a little more granular in terms of where you're getting that share.
I know in the past obviously the branded businesses has done the majority of that or all of that but is that still the case and maybe if you could go in terms of which channels are you seeing the most success in? Mike it's Marc Bitzer.
Without getting too much into a detail because we don't want to share everything with our competitors just in terms of share growth overall yes we had a share growth in Q1 both on a sequential and year-over-year basis.
That is -- and that is a similar trend like in Q4 particular almost entirely driven by branded business.
But branded business continues well overall in particular with Whirlpool Maytag and KitchenAid brands.
The OEM side of our business has I would say stabilized relative to Q4 and we see right now is a stabilization of these trends.
So overall yes we're very pleased with our shared guidance.
I don't want to get into the specifics of which sounds of which product but we're predominantly still our branded business.
And our new product innovations are doing exceptionally well in this market.
Great.
One more question if I could.
In North America you mentioned that you've continued to reduce or dial back the production levels I believe in first quarter as well as you had in the fourth quarter.
Is it possible to kind of quantify what that drag was in the first quarter if indeed you still had dialed back those production levels what type of drag that was on the margin? Michael we don't typically give out -- we had a significant production take out to balance on inventories.
We typically don't give out our dollar amount with that.
But it had a significant negative impact on our conversion.
So you should expect that if we stabilized production we ought to have better margin.
And when would that -- is that going to be occurring in the second quarter? Again our inventories are in good shape.
But we did say demand will be down.
So there won't be a material change.
But I'd say the second half of the year our demand scenario plays out.
We'll have certainly on a -- compared to previous year very favorable.
And we'll take our next question from Bob Kelly with Sidoti &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> I might have missed this did you quantify the benefit from cost reductions productivity gains in 1Q? And then secondly could you maybe just talk about the phasing of your goal for this year for the next few quarters? Let me answer the productivity question for you.
In the quarter productivity was positive about 2 points on the margin.
And the phasing ramps up throughout the year based on how our prices come through and we'd expect that to increase going forward.
LLC</strong> Given the work you've done this far are we still thinking -- I think the goal was $270 million in productivity cost-related savings for 2011? I don't think we ever gave a productivity number.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Would you care to give one now? What we did say was we expected it to offset our material costs headwinds.
And we'll take our next question from Tom Nikic with Cowen and Company.
This is Tom in for Laura Champine today.
I was wondering if you guys have any sense of how much pull forward of demand there was ahead of the Q2 price increases I guess industry-wide? Tom it's Marc Bitzer.
As you would normally expect with the kind of price increases which will end out yes there were some pull-forwards.
But I would say it was nothing out of a unnormal register of our previous price increases.
Keep in mind 2 things out of my context.
First of all there are less and less retailers who can dial up and down significant inventory.
There's many retailers have carry -- very little or no inventory.
The second thing also bear in mind what we reported in previous earnings call there was quite a bit of an inventory hangover coming from Q4 into Q1.
The batch with generated demand was very soft.
So I would say these two effects together pretty much offset each other.
Okay thanks.
And coming to BEFIEX I'm not sure if you mentioned this but did you give how much credits you have remaining or how many credits you have remaining? We have $510 million remaining.
And at this time we'll expect we have time for one more question.
We'll take that question from Todd Duvick with Merrill Lynch.
I had a quick question for you on -- you've got a note that's maturing in June a $300 million note and you have plenty of cash on the balance sheet to pay it off if you choose to.
So my question is do you plan on paying it off to work towards those upgrades as you've mentioned earlier? Or would you be in the market refinancing that at some point? I think we're examining that now.
I don't have a definitive answer it could be a combination of cash and debt issuances.
But at this point in time we haven't made a decision.
Okay and then just one big picture question there's been -- on the fixed income side there's been quite a bit of I guess questioning as to why the Maytag bonds were just assumed by Whirlpool over the past quarter or so can you provide any big picture color in terms of what was behind that action was it to achieve some cost reduction efforts? There was some internal planning activity that we have done and that's all it is.
In fact keep in mind we've never issued anything under Maytag's acquisition so those are just legacy bonds from the time of acquisition.
Well thank you again for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking with you next time.
This concludes today's conference.
You may disconnect at any time.
Thank you and have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to Whirlpool Corporation's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Larry Venturelli Senior Vice President Financial Whirlpool Corporation.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Whirlpool Corporation Second Quarter Conference Call.
Joining me today are Jeff Fettig our Chairman and CEO; Mike Todman President of Whirlpool International; Marc Bitzer President of Whirlpool North America; and Roy Templin our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements to assist you in understanding Whirlpool Corporation's future expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially from these statements due to many factors discussed in our latest 10-K and 10-Q.
Turning to Slide 2 we'd like to remind you that today's presentation includes non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures are important indicators of our operations as they exclude items that may not be indicative of or unrelated to our core operating results.
We also think that the adjusted measures will provide you with a better baseline for analyzing trends in our underlying business.
Listeners are directed to the Appendix Section of our presentation beginning on Slide 29 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP items to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
Our remarks today track with the presentation available on the Investors section of our website at www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
With that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Well good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today on the call.
As you saw earlier this morning we released our second quarter financial results.
And you could see these results summarized on Slide 4.
For the quarter sales reached $4.7 billion which was a 4% increase from the prior year.
On an operating basis excluding non-operating charges for recent legal developments our EPS was $2.76 a share versus $2.82 a year ago.
And while earnings are down slightly from last year our second quarter performance demonstrates that we have the ability to quickly adapt our business to build up our revenue growth and operating earnings due to our strong global leadership position even in what I would describe as a very challenging environment.
In our release today we are reconfirming our annual operating EPS guidance of $12.00 to $13.00 a share and free cash flow guidance in the range of $400 million to $500 million.
Given the current operating environment which we'll describe as we see it in great detail in a few moments we now see EPS at the low end of the range.
As a result of our non-operating charges reported our GAAP EPS guidance is now $7.25 to $8.25 a share and free cash flow is now $160 million to $260 million.
While our second quarter results were impacted by non-operating charges we are pleased to have substantially reduced our legal uncertainties and financial liabilities going forward.
The Brazilian collection matter is now completely behind us and we took an accrual for the ongoing European Union investigation for the Compressor business.
Now I'd like to provide you some perspective on 3 things: The global economic environment and how we see it impacting our business and the industry the actions we are aggressively taking to adjust to this changing environment and how we expect these factors to play out in the second half of the year versus what we've already seen on the first half of the year.
Now turning to Slide 5 you can see we've revised our full year 2011 demand assumptions to reflect what happened in the first half of the year and how we see the second half.
Overall we expect global demand in the second half of 2011 to be up approximately 1% to 2% roughly equal to what we saw on the first half which we believe in today's realistic assumption in light of the current environment.
North American demand in the first half of the year has been weaker than expected.
The first half demand was down 5% which was composed of flat in the first quarter and down nearly 10% in the second quarter.
In fact the second quarter industry demand levels were back to the same levels we saw at our 2009 recession lows.
Also in this slide you can see that our full year demand forecast is now forecasted to be down 1% to 2% which means we expect the second half to be flat to approximately 2% increase.
The first half demand in Europe was up 2% which was comprised of Western Europe being down 3% with good growth in the Eastern markets.
We expect the second half to be flat to slightly up and therefore the full year forecast up 1% to 2%.
Overall we really don't see a lot of change in our Latin America full year demand forecast of 5% to 10% although we do expect to see growth slowing somewhat from what was a very strong second quarter of this year.
Asia demand has modestly changed and we've revised the 4% to 6% for the full year.
Our business is having very good growth in China but we have seen the slowing of growth in India.
Overall as we step back and look at consumer demand around the world we believe that high unemployment low consumer confidence and recessionary housing levels are the driving factors in demand patterns that we see in North America and Europe while high inflation is beginning to impact some growth in the emerging markets.
As I said though we do expect to see demand growth globally in the second half of the year but we have lowered our previous estimates and this has all been factored in to our new financial forecast.
I'd now like to turn to Slide 6 where you can see a comparison of the key drivers of our results both what we saw in the first half and what we are anticipating in the second half.
I've already spoken about demand so I'll move on to costs.
Raw material and oil-related costs are at record levels and we've now seen them for the full year in the range of $450 million to $500 million.
As a reminder that's almost 2x greater than our original estimate that we made in early February.
[Technical Difficulty] That we have in place.
So we really don't see these costs changing very much in either direction through the end of the year.
As we've seen this high inflation in our costs we have been taking very aggressive actions throughout the first half continuing into the second quarter of the year to help offset the impact particularly in the area of productivity.
There's really 4 key drivers of our strong productivity that we've had so far and expect to continue to have for the balance of the year.
First is material efficiency.
This is really driven by our new innovative product designs which come in with lower material content our continued global parts standardization and our continued optimizing our value feature content across our product lines.
The secondary is quality which we're very pleased about.
Our quality levels continue to improve.
In fact they're at their best levels ever which is resulting in lower service and warranty costs.
The third area of focus is continuing to optimize the supply chain thereby reducing freight warehousing costs which is helping us to offset much higher fuel costs.
And finally we continue to make very good progress in reducing our global infrastructure costs.
So overall we will achieve a very strong level of productivity this year and we're confident in our ability to deliver these savings to help mitigate the impact of this high inflation.
The next lever or driver I would turn to is price.
We do expect the negative year-over-year price mix impact that we've seen which was about 2 points negative in the first half of the year to turn positive and we'll add at least 2 points to our margins in the second half of the year.
This is supported by the strong consumer demand that we've seen for our new product innovation.
These have already been announced or implemented price increases and the ones that have not been implemented to date will be between now and October.
And they cover virtually every market around the world.
Finally 2 other topics I would touch on first is energy tax credits which are based on consumer demand for our U.S.-produced highly energy-efficient products.
They are expected to remain strong as we've seen all year and they'll be even stronger in the second half of the year.
We continue to expect that $300 million to $350 million of energy tax credits this year.
The secondary is BEFIEX credits in Brazil which is as you know are driven by appliance sales and mix in Brazil.
We expect those to be close to first half levels And overall expect to generate between $250 million and $300 million for the year.
So with this as the backdrop I would just summarize all this by saying that we continue to have a challenging and volatile global economic environment which has been more challenging than we previously expected in the first half of the year.
We have and we'll continue to take very aggressive cost productivity and price mix actions to quickly adjust to these conditions.
And as I said before based on these set of assumptions today we see our results towards the lower end of our EPS forecast with demand and therefore volume as the factor that we see right now that's the most bearable in the second half of the year.
We're very confident in our costs our productivity and our price mix assumptions that we see in the second half.
And as we have before we will continue to take strong actions to drive margin improvement and earnings improvements throughout the second half.
So at this point in time I'm going to turn it over to Marc Bitzer for his update on our North American business.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Let me start by giving you my perspective on North America's performance for the quarter.
As shown on Slide 9 we continue to achieve solid productivity and direct cost reduction gains across the region which only partially offset low volumes and higher material costs.
As Jeff mentioned our April price increases have been fully implemented and we have announced an additional cost base price increase for August due to further material cost increases.
And as a result our price mix while still negative on a year-over-year basis improved substantially quarter-over-quarter.
Regarding industry unit shipments we'd expected to see negative U.S.
industry unit shipment trends during the second quarter given by the 2010 cash provided program and housing credits.
However the decline was clearly steeper than expected.
On Slide 10 you will see U.S.
T7 industry for the first half of the year compared to prior periods back to 2005.
You will note that the first half 2011 industry volumes has dipped to 2009 recessionary levels has continued high unemployment and low consumer confidence continues to depress the U.S.
housing market and discretionary purchases.
In fact given the current U.S.
economic environment the percentage of our business representing replacement purchases is at an all-time high.
Based on these recent trends we expect to see only modest growth in the second half and now expect industry shipments to be down 1% to 2% for the year compared to our previous forecast of up 2% to 3%.
On Slide 11 you will see the North America's financial performance in the second quarter.
Regarding our overall unit volume we saw our North American unit shipments down 5% in the second quarter despite the U.S.
industry down within 10%.
Net sales of $2.4 billion were down from $2.5 billion in the prior year due to weak industry demand.
Our adjusted operating margin was 3.2% compared with 6.6% in prior year.
The results are favorably impacted by cost reduction and productivity initiative and the factors offsetting our productivity were a combination of significantly higher material costs lower year-over-year product mix and however as I previously mentioned we did see solid sequential price mix improvements due to a positive impact of cost base price increases.
We are positioned to benefit from previously announced price increases during the balance of the year.
And we also expect the overall promotion environment in the second half of the year to be lower than last year's levels especially in the market where almost 61% of all consumer purchases are direct purchases.
And we will also continue to leverage our strong product innovation for growth over long-term.
Based on all these factors we fully expect to have sequential margin improvement and significantly higher asset margins.
On Slide 12 you can see just a few of our new products that we launched in the second quarter.
Before I highlight these new launches would like to briefly discuss some recent product leadership recognition.
Whirlpool Corporation's 100 year of legacy of innovations has lead to several top ratings in the leading consumer magazines in the refrigeration cooking and dishwashing category for all our brands.
The company scored #1 rating from the French door bottom mount conventional bottom freezer built-in refrigerator 30-inch and 36-inch dual fuel range categories.
That is in addition to all our non-operatings[ph] which we're communicating through our last earnings call.
Now turning back to some of our recent new product launches which includes a Maytag brand EcoConserve top-mount refrigerator which featured improved ENERGY STAR qualifications and precise temperature control.
Jenn-Air brand induction cooktop that feature the most powerful cooking element available for the home kitchen and also shown here is our Maytag brand Maxima 9000 front-load high-efficiency washing machine featuring the industry's first PowerSpray feature that evenly slides detergent solution.
Before I close I want to say that we are confident in the actions we're taking to address the weaker-than-expected economic environment.
Our strong focus on innovation cost reduction productivity marketplace execution and price mix will provide us with earnings momentum throughout the second half of 2011 and into 2012.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Mike for further review of our International operations.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
Let me start with a second quarter 2011 review of our International business on Slide 14.
Overall compared to last year our International business' balance of sale grew from 45% to 50%.
Sales of $2.4 billion grew 17% growing 7% excluding currency.
In Europe developed market economies continue to remain weak and the region continues to face high material cost inflation.
To address these costs we have announced 5% to 7% price increases in most countries across the region which will take effect between August and October.
In Latin America unit volumes were up 21%.
We saw solid demand growth both in Brazil and also within the remaining countries that make up our Latin American region.
Demand in Brazil during the second quarter was significantly higher as the industry comped against a weak quarter last year due in part to last year's World Cup as retailers shifted their focus to brown goods from white goods.
Material costs are also significantly impacting this region of the world and during the second quarter we announced and are implementing cost based price increases to mitigate the impact.
And in Asia we saw a slowing demand with unit volumes 4% below 2010 levels.
Inflation and a weak summer season in India due to adverse weather conditions were partially offset by strong unit growth in China despite a softer industry in China.
Now let me walk through each region individually to provide more detail.
Turning to Slide 15 in the second quarter our Europe Middle East and Africa sales improved 14% year-over-year to $841 million with unit shipments increasing 2%.
Excluding favorable impact of currency sales decreased approximately 2%.
The region's operating profit of $20 million was flat with the previous year.
Results were unfavorably impacted by lower product price and mix and higher material costs partially offset by cost reduction and productivity initiatives and higher unit volumes.
We expect that the impact of previously announced price increases and continued cost reduction initiatives will improve margins within the region towards the latter part of the year.
Slide 16 shows a summary of our Latin American second quarter results.
The region reported sales of $1.3 billion a 25% increase from the prior year period with appliance unit shipments up 21%.
Excluding the impact from currency sales increased approximately 16%.
Operating profit totaled $166 million compared to $165 million in the prior year.
Cost reduction and productivity initiatives and increased monetization of tax credits favorably impacted results.
These factors were partially offset by higher material costs and unfavorable price mix.
We expect announced price increases and our ongoing cost and productivity initiatives to result in margin expansion throughout the second half of the year.
Our second quarter results in the Asia region are shown on Slide 17.
Net sales decreased 2% during the quarter to $257 million down from $263 million in the prior year period as unit shipments decreased 4%.
Excluding the impact of currency sales decreased approximately 5%.
Operating profit of $14 million is essentially unchanged from the prior year period.
Favorable product price mix was offset by inflation including higher material costs.
Continued productivity efforts along with the introduction of new price innovations will result in margin expansion in the second half of the year.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Roy Templin for his financial review.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Beginning on Slide 19 I would like to summarize our second quarter results.
First before focusing on our operating results I'd like to comment on the quarters 2 non-operating charges.
As we discussed earlier on the call our results include $4.86 per share of expense to settle a Brazilian collection dispute and provide for recent developments in the ongoing Embraco antitrust matters.
As previously disclosed we reached an agreement on June 22 to settle all claims arising from a long-standing dispute in Brazil.
The settlement enabled us to remove significant uncertainty and financial risk by bringing financial closures to the matter.
The settlement amount is within the range between the previous disclosed accrual and the previous disclosed maximum exposure.
During the second quarter we reported an additional pretax charge of $439 million with an interest and sundry expense to adjust our accrual to the full amount of the settlement.
Based on recent developments we made an $83 million accrual this quarter for the ongoing EU investigation of Embraco and other matters related to the global antitrust investigation.
The accrual is reflected within interest and sundry expense.
As previously announced the Brazilian and U.S.
antitrust investigations of Embraco have been settled.
Taking these matters into account we remain in a strong financial position and continue to maintain our liquidity priorities.
Now I'd like to comment on our base operating results for the quarter on Slide 20.
Our sales grew 4% to $4.7 billion.
Excluding the impact of currency sales were down slightly on unit volumes which increased 1.4% from the prior year led by Latin America.
We continue to benefit from higher productivity and cost reduction initiatives during the quarter.
Based on volume and product mix we also monetized $79 million of BEFIEX credits compared to $47 million in prior year.
These favorable results were effectively offset by lower price mix and higher material and oil-related costs.
You will note that our gross margin contracted 270 basis points to 14.1%.
The most significant unfavorable impacts on our gross margin were higher material cost and lower product price mix.
These were partially offset by cost takeout and productivity actions and as I previously mentioned higher BEFIEX credit monetization.
SG&amp;A expense totaled $425 million compared with $401 million in the prior year.
The majority of the dollar increase in SG&amp;A was related to foreign currency translation.
Higher advertising spending was partially offset by lower infrastructure costs.
As a percentage of sales SG&amp;A was up slightly from the prior year.
Restructuring expenses totaled $14 million during the quarter and resulted from cost reduction actions in Europe and North America.
For 2011 we continue to expect to record restructuring charges of between $75 million and $100 million.
Turning to Slide 21 I wanted to briefly discuss interest and sundry expense.
While several individual line items roll into this caption on the income statement the key year-over-year variance was the settlement of the Brazilian collection dispute and the incremental accruals for Embraco antitrust matters that I previously discussed.
Turning to our tax rate we recorded an effective tax benefit of 56% during the quarter and compared to a benefit of 4% last year.
The difference in rates is primarily due to the change in pretax earnings.
We have included a table on Slide 22 to provide you with a reconciliation of our 2011 second quarter tax rate.
In addition to the BEFIEX credits I previously discussed we also recorded $79 million of energy tax credits in the quarter compared to $87 million in prior year.
For the full year we continue to expect between $300 million to $350 million of energy tax credits.
The delta between our prior guidance for our effective tax rate of minus 10% and our current outlook is due to a projected drop in earnings before taxes.
And finally we reported diluted earnings per share of $2.10 per share compared with $2.64 per share in the prior year.
On an adjusted basis diluted EPS was $2.76 per share income compared with the $2.82 per share in the prior year.
Moving to our free cash flow results on Slide 23 we reported a free cash flow use of $473 million during the second quarter compared to a use of $88 million in the prior year.
The main variances from the prior year's results relate to lower cash earnings and a $212 million U.S.
cash pension contribution.
There are 2 additional items I would like to highlight.
As previously disclosed in June we completed a $300 million 10-year bond issuance at a coupon interest rate of 4.85%.
This issuance replaces dollar-for-dollar the debt that matured this June 15 which carried an interest rate of 6.125%.
The new issuance is the lowest coupon bond in our capital structure allowing for flexibility with liquidity.
Also in June we entered into a 5-year amended and restated long-term credit facility.
The new facility extended our existing credit facility scheduled to mature in August of 2012 to June of 2016 and increased our existing $1.35 billion facility to $1.725 billion.
We regularly review our capital structure and liquidity priorities which include funding the business through capital and engineering spending to support our innovation and productivity initiatives funding our pension plan and termed debt liabilities return to shareholders and potential acquisitions.
These priorities are aligned with our goal to return our credit ratings to pre-recession levels.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Jeff.
Thanks Roy.
I'd like to take a moment now and kind of put all these pieces together and provide you with a perspective of how we see the business.
I'm going to be referring Slides 25 26 and 27 which showed the priorities which we laid out and discussed with investors late last year at our Investor Day conference.
As a company we are now at our 100th year of operations.
We are today the global leader in the major home appliance business and we see significant levers for us to grow in the future.
We remain very well positioned and I think we're demonstrating that we are capable to quickly adapt to changes in the environment.
For a reference during last 3 years we've substantially lowered our break-even point by reducing capacity fixed cost and optimizing our global operations and we see more opportunities in this space.
We've invested and continue to invest in great new product innovation and I think today have the best portfolio of winning new products than we've ever had in our history.
As Roy mentioned we have greatly strengthened our balance sheet we've improved our liquidity and we have dealt with some very large historical liabilities that are now behind us.
In addition we continue to grow and are getting an even stronger position in critical emerging markets like Latin America India and China.
What we expected late last year was some economic recovery in our developed markets.
We certainly didn't foresee the extraordinary inflation that we've experienced this year or the weakening of demand levels.
So this economic challenge has delayed the growth rate and margin improvement that we expected in the first half of this year.
But it has not changed our expectations or commitment to execute our roadmap for growth and valuation[ph] which we've presented last year.
We are aggressively responding to these economic realities that we see today around the world as we've laid out throughout this presentation we've implemented additional price productivity and cost actions to overcome higher material costs higher inflation and lower demand levels.
We clearly expect second half margins to improve particularly in the fourth quarter where we will have the full impact of our announced and implemented price increases with cost and productivity levels which will fully offset inflation and positively contribute to our margins well.
So to summarize we are in a period where global growth is uncertain and in that environment we are taking necessary actions in order to expand our operating margins improve our earnings and generate cash in line with our target range projections which we remain committed to delivering.
So with that I'd be happy to open this call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the phone of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
On Latin America I'm wondering if you can just give a little bit more color on the margins there which have excluding the BEFIEX seen some erosion.
In the U.S.
it seems like will start to stabilize or improve the margins a bit but can you just talk about what's going on with Latin American margins what's driving the change there? Yes Eric this is Mike Todman.
We did see a reduction in margins in Latin America in the second quarter.
We actually saw that that had started in April largely driven by material costs but also driven by price mix.
And that's why we executed price increases beginning in the second quarter and kind of taking effect through the quarter and into next quarter.
But we did see some erosion we expect that to improve as we go to the back half of the year because of the price increases to offset the erosion.
Can you talk about your sort of confidence and conviction in that and perhaps compare and contrast that to North America? Because you're absolutely dealing with similar issues? Yes we're actually very confident.
We've already started the execution of those increases and we are beginning to see them to see the results of those.
So we expect them to absolutely to take hold and we're very confident that we will see them in our margins as we go in the second of the year.
And then I guess the second question a follow-up question.
In North America you've talked about the being less promotional in the back half of the year.
Pretty meaningfully less promotional not being a favorable contributor to margin.
Can you just talk about your expectation about how that will influence volume and how you expect the discipline to be in the industry to hold that position if volumes continue to behave in a challenging fashion? Eric it's Marc Bitzer.
First of all the comment referring to the overall promotion environment in the industry.
Obviously promotions are determined and decided by the retailer.
The reason I will believe the overall promotional noise is going to be less than last year is very simple.
But if for any reason the return on investment in promotion is significantly less than last year.
And that is very simply driven by the fact that the direct purchases or base of purchases are at an all-time high.
There is just no return of putting a promotion out there for [indiscernible] And we saw that already in the second quarter but I would say the lift which many retailers got from promotions were lower than expected anticipated and we therefore expect that the retailers adjust that behavior also somewhat in the second half.
I don't think it will overall impact the levels of industry demand and we've factored that promotional assessment already into our expectation for second half industry volumes which again as I mentioned before we expect the full year to be down minus 1 to minus 2.
And if you translate that into a second half we expect the second half to be up plus 1 to plus 2.
Our next question comes from the line of Laura Champine with Cowen.
LLC</strong> Can you comment on your inventory levels? Still up 15% in this kind of demand environment.
Looks a little frightening and I'm wondering how much it is impacting price mix globally and how much it should impact price mix in Q3? Yes Laura this is Roy.
First of all Laura let me talk a little bit about inventory.
In the general at $3.1 billion that's up just under $400 million from a year ago on the balance sheet.
And first of all and very importantly $200 million of the $395 million Laura is just simply the result of the changing currencies year-over-year.
And then you've got what I would estimate just under 3 days or about $115 million would relate to what we would call excess inventory.
And a lot of that is in our International businesses and a lot of that is seasonal related inventory with the chunk of that related back to what Mike talked about in terms of the seasons that we experienced in some of our international markets relative to that inventory.
And so we'd that's about $115 million.
And then the other $80 million Laura is 2 things.
Part of it is just the cost lift as a result of higher commodities and then when you look year-over-year obviously a year ago we were building inventories relative to a low position.
And so we had some availability issues.
And so if you look year-over-year from that perspective those 2 components give you the other $80 million.
From a company perspective Laura and I know you've followed us for a long time we normally build somewhere around $425 million of inventory in the first half of the year just so to support the seasonality in the business.
This year we built less than that at $280 million.
We did take 5% of our units out globally in terms of production year-over-year.
The greatest reduction being in North America in Marc's business where we took out about 8% year-over-year in terms of production units.
And we've planned and have plans in place to continue to take production down over the back half of the year to get our inventories aligned.
I think last call Larry Venturelli mentioned that our plan was to take inventory levels down to $2.6 billion or roughly thereabouts.
We still have those same plans in place.
We have our production schedules aligned with the most recent demand that Jeff talked about in order to achieve that inventory reduction.
It is Laura admittedly more reduction than we typically do midpoint end of year.
But we did the same level in 2008 and we did $309 million of take down in 2009.
So we're confident in our ability to get the inventories down over the remainder of the year.
Our next question comes from the side of Sam Darkatsh with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> A couple of quick questions.
First off there seems to be a lot of things going on in price mix.
Can you parse out the price part versus the mix part both in the quarter and then your expectations for the year? For the quarter Sam this is Roy.
Let me give you a little bit of high level.
For the quarter Jeff talked about we had roughly 2 points of impact on price mix from a margin perspective.
I want to emphasize that.
Like-for-like Sam it was about 0.5 point relative to the 2 points.
Allowance is about 0.5 point and then if you look at mix globally that was about 1 point of the 2-point reduction.
And Sam those numbers relative to year-to-date are probably fairly similar.
As you know in the first quarter we had minus 2.3 and this quarter minus 2.0.
Inc.</strong> Two more quick questions if I might.
Any early read through so far in terms of 2012 inflation based on what you're looking at the raw materials markets right now? Sam this is Jeff.
No I don't think we really have a -- I think there is a lot of things that are changing very quickly.
We're kind of at an odd point in time in the economy where you have record high in inflation and relatively weak demand.
So we are seeing again included in this forecast some turning of material costs but it's -- we probably don't really begin negotiations or getting a firm handle on that 'til late third quarter early fourth quarter.
Inc.</strong> Last question if I might.
Electrolux yesterday or the other day mentioned that the Latin American industry they've pegged a 7% growth and you folks with the very high market share grew your units considerably more than that and also took your BEFIEX rates higher.
What are you seeing there from a demand standpoint? Is it a fair amount of market share gains and why would that be or is it definitional? Why the discrepancies? Well Sam first of all we said for the year we are holding to the 5% to 10%.
If you think about it the second quarter was up fairly substantially year-over-year because of the down quarter last year.
So I'd say that's the first thing.
Now in terms of our business as I said on the last call we've expanded our distribution to areas of growth within the country.
There is some 6 000 cities in Brazil and a lot of them were small.
But that is where we're seeing growth and so we've expanded our distribution there and so we're enjoying good solid growth in those regions.
Inc.</strong> So if I could take that further you would anticipate growing perhaps considerably more than the 5% to 10% industry growth that you're pegging? No I'm not saying that Sam.
I think that's a reasonable level of growth that we should expect.
Sam this is Roy.
Let me talk a little bit about your BEFIEX question.
Because I think it's an important one and by the way I know you've been following us for a long time so you know the connection here.
But with respect to BEFIEX we did take up our guidance.
We did have a higher BEFIEX in the second quarter.
But a couple of things Sam to emphasize here with respect to the why.
As you know this is not only volume driven but it's also very much tagged to the mix that you have within that volume and we have the highest IPI taxes and therefore the highest BEFIEX offset in the laundry category at 20%.
And as you know the lowest at cooking at 4%.
And so what happened in the second quarter and what we project happening over the remainder of the year is one we have taken share in laundry and improved our laundry mix.
Laundry mix is up 6% year-over-year.
We have a case of innovation that we're bringing into the market continuing throughout the back half of the year.
And so that was the reason one for the higher BEFIEX in the quarter but very importantly to your point too the reason we've taken the guidance up for the year related to those 2 matters.
Our next question comes from the side of David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
Hopefully this heat is helping your replacement refrigeration sales.
I guess a couple of questions.
It appears that you gained some share in North America so I wondered if you could address that.
And then the second question just pertains to your ability to secure price increases in a down commodity market.
And history would suggest that at the peak of the commodity markets manufacturers typically have a tough time securing a full pass-through and where does your confidence come from that you can be a little more successful in this time around as commodity prices continue to come down? David I'll take the first part.
It's Marc Bitzer.
Just on the share first of all when we talked about our overall unit that went down 5% in an industry that's down 10% percent keep in mind this overall unit include our entire North American business everything from Mexico Canada et cetera.
If you look at our core appliances piece at market share which is obviously a subset of our overall North American business we would say on a year-to-date base our share is flat year-over-year it is flat.
However it is sequentially down from the first quarter.
That is total combination of somewhat seasonality but it's also we expected some share drop as a result of our price increase in April 1.
So I would say we're pretty pleased with where we are today from share it's flat.
Some share loss which we expected due to our price increase and we're pretty comfortable to where we are today in share position.
How much share do you think you forfeited with the price increase? I would say a big part of the Q2 and Q1 drop but a result of us going very early and aggressively and decide to give a price increase and we expect over time to get that back.
David that's not an abnormal pattern for us.
Let me address the price increase David.
I don't think I could agree that we're yet in a down commodity cycle.
In fact we raised our material forecast from again to $450 million to $500 million.
I know there was a period where we had some peaks but I mean we never buy the peak we never buy the bottom.
The trend is still up.
What I said was we've expected the second half to be high.
In fact we peak in the third quarter and then but stabilizing.
There are a few isolated cases where you've seen small declines but if you take that material cost increase at the second half of last year plus this it's been the biggest commodity and material cost inflation push that we've ever seen.
So I think the price increases we're asking for are very justified.
And unless -- well I certainly don't think that cost situation turning.
We think it's very predictable between now and the end of the year simply as I said based on hedging and contracts.
So if they did turn the next year that's a different issue.
But I would say margins have been hugely impacted at every level due to this inflation and we've got to recoup it with price.
Just Roy quickly on the credit facility revision or extension were there any change in the covenants? No.
Same financial covenants David that we have before.
Our next question comes from the phone of Josh Pollard with Goldman Sachs.
My first question is on your cost initiatives.
I think it was back in 4Q when you guys first laid those out you guys laid those out again.
But I think what investors are looking for is actually some dollar figures to actually put around those initially when you gave guidance in 4Q you said you'd be able to offset the $250 million to $300 million unfavorable impact from inflation.
When you raised it in 1Q your inflation numbers you said you'd still be able to offset it.
It seems like now you guys aren't saying that you will offset it fully.
So I really don't have a good view on what the total dollar figure is of cost initiatives you guys are having how those breakout by the items that you outlined Jeff? And then I'm also trying to get a sense of how they breakdown by quarter.
Josh I can give you a couple of those pieces.
First of all relative to the original material guidance of $250 million and $300 million on our productivity will offset that.
The issue obviously is the material cost increases and we now see it as $450 million to $500 million which makes the task obviously much harder.
I would say also don't forget that is just raw material costs.
It does not include logistics costs which globally is probably with fuel is another $150 million to $200 million and what I would say it's a very high inflation particularly in emerging markets on salaries benefits basically everything.
So and again I won't have an exact number but if you put all those together you will have over $1 billion of inflation across all parts of our business.
So what I said was our productivity -- it is fairly well evenly distributed.
That our productivity will exceed this inflation by the fourth quarter.
So we've had high levels of productivity simply just not been enough to offset this inflation.
So it's impacted our margins.
What I would say we peak in Q3 we cross over positive to positive territory productivity exceeding raw material costs and inflation in Q4.
So it will become a positive addition to our margin then but for the first 3 quarters it's net negative.
So maybe we can take a step back $450 million to $500 million on a quarterly basis.
So 1Q 2Q what you're seeing so far and then I can do the math on what's in the second half and I would make the assumption that that 3Q is harsher than 4Q.
What are those numbers? For raw materials? Yes.
I'm sorry I missed the question.
So we had $94 million in Q1 as you know Josh.
$133 million this quarter and we would project again these are round numbers okay? We peaked out about $140 million and then come down to somewhere around $125 million in the fourth quarter.
That will get you to $490 million but those back half are round numbers Josh.
Okay.
And then your cost initiatives can you give those by quarter as well? Because I think that's where really your investor base is struggling to get a sense.
How these things will shape up? Yes Josh again we don't give out productivity by quarter.
I would just say let's talk about this quarter and then let me talk a little bit about year-to-date and then as a point of reference maybe I'll point back to Jeff's comments to last year.
First of all this quarter if you look at sort of everything Jeff talked about x the materials we had about $100 million of benefit in the margin in Q2 or just over 200 basis points Josh.
Now the bad thing as Jeff referenced is we have $133 million in material or 280 basis points on material.
So if you look at this year-to-date again the material number is just about 250 basis points almost spot on with the productivity at about 200 basis points.
So again we're tracking but we're still beneath the headwinds that Jeff referenced.
Again while we won't do it quarterly in his comments you saw it play out last year where we ended the year with roughly 350 basis points of productivity for the full year.
And then of course as you know Josh that allowed us to expand on margin because it more than offset what we experienced with pricing and more than offset what we experienced with materials.
That for a local corporation is fairly traditional because of the way we build the pipe and execute the pipe over the course of the year.
And we always get stronger productivity in the back half.
In terms of specificity on back half we don't provide that.
Again I would just say that the price mix will we said will add at least 2 points to our margin in the second of the year versus the minus 2 points in the first half.
We said that raw materials will stay high but stabilize and our productivity will exceeded this oil inflation by the fourth quarter which means it will be positive to the fourth quarter.
So that's the -- those are the 2 big levers we see with demands still being the most variable of those factors.
Okay.
And I just want to make sure that when you say it will add 2 points to margin that's relative to the first half of 2010 or is that relative that's correct? 2011.
Yes you're right Jeff.
2011.
Our next question comes from the side of Michael Rehaut with J.P.
Morgan.
First question just to look at the 200 bps of benefit from the price increases for the back half of the year.
How much of that do you expect from the price increases that you've already announced and implemented versus the ones that you are going to be implementing from today through October? Yes.
You know let me kind of give you a macro view.
We took what we thought at that the time appropriate pricing increase in the U.S.
in April.
Then we saw the higher inflation and Marc can tell you that I think he did tell you the quarter-over-quarter benefit we've already seen.
So that would carry through and then the additional one is the one we did in August.
In Brazil we took and we're seeing late in the second quarter already the benefits of what was implemented announced in May and implemented.
They'll be fully implemented through June July.
And Europe is largely being implemented between now and October.
Mike said 5% to 7%.
So we would expect to net a high percentage of that.
And then in places like India we've done it every month or every other month and you can see and we've been able to fully offset inflation in places like that and we'll do that as needed.
So our run rate of margin improvement is improving.
But it's a combination of that and the new ones that gives you the 2 points.
Right.
I guess you have obviously a lot of experience in price increases over the last year or 2 but I guess what people particularly in the U.S.
are looking at is the continuation of that trend amid a weaker-than-expected demand environment.
And so I guess is the price the confidence from achieving those price increases does it stem from some new products or from just your gauge on how your big customers will react or if there is anymore color on that perspective? Mike it's Marc Bitzer.
I'm trying to answer your question now.
We're not trying to speculate about expectation of future price increases or how much it will stick or not.
Let me maybe first as the in retrospect what we saw in Q2 in what was an exceptionally weak market environment.
Our prices increases are fully executed and we delivered exactly what we internally had in mind.
The confidence about what would happen is very simply that we have a very strong innovation pipeline.
We have this number of [indiscernible] leading consumer magazine ratings which are exceptionally strong and a couple of innovation which gives you confidence in the marketplace yes you can execute certain market places price increases.
And with confidence up in Q2 and that would also carry into Q3.
Mike I'd only add that I mean again I want to put this in percent a record level of inflation globally across our business not just raw materials but logistics costs other costs.
And the reality is without a price increase the comparison between the price increase and some volume clearly favors a price increase and because selling products that you don't make any on doesn't really create any value.
So we made a strong commitment around the world with what we've announced where we intend to execute them and recouped a small portion of the material inflation another inflation that we've already experienced.
The rest were offsetting completely with productivity.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
Last question in Latin America if you strip out the BEFIEX contribution your core margins were down about a little over 200 bps sequentially.
And so it seems like that is I believe you identified as due to both material cost and price mix.
I was wondering if you could kind of break out which with material cost half or 2/3 of that I think you said was primarily due to material.
And on the price mix side what's driving that? Is it just more due to mix or is there increased competition there? I'd say Michael on the price mix side let me just take that.
It's -- we have seen some mix erosion but it's really is a combination of both.
We've also seen some like-for-like.
Again that's why we executed the price increases that we did.
And in Brazil it was 4% to 5%.
And we are already saying that we are able to net that.
In terms of the inflation and material headwind I'd say that it's about 50-50 I mean I'd just put it in those terms.
So that's kind of what the breakdown is.
Okay.
And BEFIEX balance at the quarter end Roy if you have that? Sure Michael we'll talk to you this afternoon it will say 474.
We have time for one more question.
Our last question comes from the side of Ken Zener with KeyBanc Capital.
You said you expect a 2% increase in price around the second half.
Can you highlight perhaps different regional swings and second does that imply for your April price perhaps only 25% to 35% of its stock or can you talk about the difference between your back half price and what was talked about in terms of the April in the U.S.
at least? The 2% is global.
So it does vary by region and the timing of that.
But it's the net margin contribution which is different could be very different than what is implemented in the marketplace.
So in the April 1 in North America we executed what we said we're going to do and we see those prices in the marketplace.
Okay and then I guess with the slowing in playing field like using Europe as an example but it could be for Brazil as well which I think you were talking about the volume that you've talked about.
The mix you said in Brazil you expected to be recovering it.
In Europe could you maybe kind of talk about that and should we think about mix having a downward impact relative to slowing demand or is that really just volatility you would not have any inside into kind of the back half of the year? Yes I would say that this is much volatility.
I think we feel pretty confident that we can both recover mix.
Remember mix is also new product introductions to help drive that innovations help drive that.
So that's not something that we're concerned about.
We think we can do it.
Well listen everyone.
Thank you for joining us today appreciate your comments and we look forward to talking to you next time.
Good morning and welcome to Whirlpool Corporation's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] For opener remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Larry Venturelli Senior Vice President of Finance.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Whirlpool Corporation Third Quarter Conference Call.
Joining me today are Jeff Fettig our Chairman and CEO; Mike Todman President of Whirlpool International; Marc Bitzer President of Whirlpool North America; and Roy Templin our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements to assist you in understanding Whirlpool Corporation's future expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially from these statements due to many factors discussed in our latest 10-K and 10-Q.
Turning to Slide 2 we want to remind you that today's presentation includes non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures are important indicators of our operations as they exclude items that may not be indicative of or unrelated to our core operating results.
We also think that the adjusted measures will provide you with a better baseline for analyzing trends in our underlying business.
Listeners are directed to the Appendix Section of our presentation beginning on Slide 36 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP items to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
Our remarks today track with the presentation available on the investors Section of our website at www.whirlpoolcorp.com.
With that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Thanks Larry.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on our call today.
As you saw in our press release this morning we reported an increase in revenue and earnings in the third quarter compared to last year.
However these results were lower than we expected as our price increases and productivity improvements were more than offset by the impact of weakness which we saw in global demand and high material costs.
As you see today we have announced very aggressive plans to substantially reduce our structural costs in order to improve profitability.
You may remember as we stated in our second quarter call that given this period's uncertain economic growth and consumer demand we will be prepared to take the necessary actions to expand our operating margins and improve our earnings if conditions deteriorate.
And as you all know since July consumer confidence in the U.S.
has declined and is now at its lowest level since March of 2009.
Demand is also falling off sharply in parts of Europe and slowed in emerging markets.
So given this economic environment we've taken significant actions to substantially reduce our cost and capacity which will improve our operating margins and profitability.
I would say these plans are the result of a comprehensive global review of our operations products and manufacturing facilities and are expected to reduce our fixed cost structure by approximately $400 million by the end of 2013.
Before I get into those details let me first turn to our third quarter results which you can see on Slide 5.
For the quarter sales reached $4.6 billion which represents a 2% increase from last year.
Our EPS was $2.27 versus $1.02 a year ago.
Year-to-date we have had $739 million of cash usage which includes $589 million used upon the legacy and financial liabilities which we previously discussed.
We have started to benefit from previously announced price increases in all major markets in the world.
We also had announced additional increases in several markets including a price increase in the U.S.
which will go into effect next year.
I'd ask you to turn now to Slide 6 where you can see our full year's revised demand assumptions.
In the U.S.
demand remains at recessionary levels.
Our 4-year forecast is now for a 3% to 5% decline for the region.
As you know Europe has been significantly impacted by the sovereign debt crisis and low consumer confidence and we now expect full year industry demand to be flat.
Demand in Latin America region declined by about 5% during the quarter and we now expect full year demand to be between flat and up 5% for the year.
And we've modestly reduce Asia's growth just 2% to 4% as we expect to see continued growth in China but we are seeing declining growth in India.
I'll now turn to Slide 7 where you'll see material costs which have had a significant impact on our margins.
Despite a generally weaker slowing growth around the world we didn't see raw material or related cost at very high levels and we believe though they've peaked during the quarter.
Turning to Slide 8.
Given these external challenges we made very clear what our business priorities are.
First is to expand our operating margins.
Second we will continue to invest on our global operating footprint in brands to continue to offer strong teams of consumer-relevant innovation to the marketplace.
Third we're reducing our cost structure.
And as you see we're taking immediate actions to align our cost structure with current and expected near-term industry demand levels and we'll provide you with the detail of that in a moment.
Fourth we're implementing the already announced cost-base price increases in all major markets around the world.
We must continue to pass on some of these costs to the market in order for us to enable to continue to bring innovative new products to the marketplace.
And lastly we continue to make very good progress on our U.S.-focused fair trade actions.
I'll now turn to Slide 9 where we've highlighted the actions we're taking to reduce our cost and capacity which will accelerate our margin growth beginning in 2012.
As you saw in the release we will implement a workforce reduction in more than 5 000 positions primarily in North America and Europe which includes a reduction of about 1 200 salaried positions.
Yesterday we announced the closure of our Fort Smith Arkansas refrigeration facility which will close by mid-next year.
Production from this facility will be consolidated into current North American sites in order to leverage existing capacity.
We've also announced the relocation of our dishwasher production from Germany to Poland early next year and our additional organizational efficiency actions in both North America and Europe.
In total we expect capacity to be reduced by approximately 6 million units based on these announcements and other actions that we've taken.
The capacity being reduced is targeted on high-cost locations and product segments with low profitability.
Of course these decisions are never easy but they're very necessary to ensure that we retain a cost-effective business structure in a weak demand environment.
We are proactively taking these necessary steps to improve our operating margins and deliver long-term value creation to our shareholders.
I'll now turn to Slide 10 where we show we expect these actions I've outlined today to produce an annual savings of approximately $400 million by the end of 2013.
And this will result in a restructuring charge of approximately $500 million which will be incurred beginning in the fourth quarter of this year through 2013.
Roy will provide you with more detail on this in a moment.
Overall given the weaker-than-expected economic environment we're seeing we are lowering our full year earnings guidance which you can see on Slide 11.
Earnings per share are going from $7.25 to $8.25 per share to $4.75 a share to $5.25.
And free cash flow guidance was $160 million to $260 million positive it is now $150 million to $200 million negative.
We will not be providing any 2012 forecast today but as we normally do we will provide annual guidance when we report our year end results in early February.
At this point in time I'd like to turn it over to Marc Bitzer to review our North America operations.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Let me start by giving you my perspective on North America's performance for the quarter.
Shown on Slide 13 the price increases we announced in April and in August have been fully implemented and we have announced an additional 6% to 7% price increase on all SKUs effective January 2012.
These increases are necessary to mitigate higher material costs.
As a result of these cost-based price increases our product price/mix has improved both sequentially and year-over-year.
At the same time our margins saw continued pressure because of weaker-than-expected industry shipments which were down 4% in the quarter.
Significant raw material costs continued to be a headwind for us during the quarter.
We saw material reach record levels in August and we expect cost to remain at these elevated levels.
On Slide 14 you see annual U.S.
industry T7 units since 2005.
Demand has dropped back to recessionary levels and in the U.S.
we've seen replacement demand become the vast majority of the overall demand.
Based on recent trends we now expect industry shipments to be down 3% to 5% for the year compared to our previous forecast of down 1% to 2%.
On Slide 15 you'll see North America's financial performance in the third quarter.
Regarding our overall unit volume we saw North America unit shipments down 3% in the third quarter.
Within the U.S.
industry that was down nearly 4%.
Net sales of $2.4 billion were down 2% from last year due to the weak industry demand.
Turning to Slide 16 you can see just a few of our new products that we launched in the third quarter including a Whirlpool brand side-by-side refrigerator with 6th Sense technology that monitors and adjusts temperatures to help food stay flavorful.
The refrigerator combines counter depth styling with a full-capacity refrigerator.
In the middle you see the Maytag Bravos XL top-load high-efficiency washing machine that offers the cleaning while using up to 76% less water and 78% less energy compared to traditional top-load washers.
And finally a new Whirlpool dishwasher that features 40 targeted spray jets that scour away baked on foods and deliver twice the coverage.
The dishwasher can save consumers up to 20 gallons of water per load.
Let me also add at this point a few comments on the expectation for Q4.
As mentioned before we expect industry demand to be down over quarter in the range of 1% to 2%.
We announced to our customers promotion activity for the Black Friday season that will be lower than last year's level.
Because we have determined this is a weaker demand environment with replacement driving more consumer's purchases we don't see value in heavy promotions during this time.
We expect the combination of cost-based price increases and the significant cost reduction actions which we announced today to contribute to North America margin improvement beginning in Q4.
We will also continue to leverage our strong product innovation for growth over long-term.
Let me also spend a minute on our fair trade actions and the Department of Commerce preliminary decision on antidumping that was announced yesterday.
A preliminary determination by the U.S.
Department of Commerce found South Korean and Mexican producers violated U.S.
and international trade laws by dumping bottom-mount refrigerators in the United States.
These preliminary findings of dumping validates legal actions we're taking to protect fair competition.
And as a result of yesterday's preliminary determination importers will be required to post bonds a security for payment of antidumping duties if U.S.
wholesale prices are not raised to fair value.
While the investigation is not yet complete we remain very confident about the case.
The U.S.
Department of Commerce will conduct a thorough audit in the next phase of investigation and we expect the final rulings would accurately reflect the damage inflicted by the dumping of bottom-mount refrigerators.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Mike for his review of our International operations.
Thanks Marc.
Let me to start with the third quarter 2011 review of our International business on Slide 18.
Overall compared to last year our international businesses' balance of sale grew from 47% to 50% driven primarily from sales in the emerging markets.
Sales of $2.3 billion grew 7% excluding currency sales were flat.
Our Europe business was particularly affected by weak demand high material costs and unfavorable price/mix during the quarter.
In Latin America high inflation contributed to a slowing of growth as we experienced a unit volume decline resulting in a slight sales growth after adjusting for currency.
Operating earnings were impacted by higher inflation and significant raw material costs.
in Asia we saw unit volumes growth of 4% over 2010 levels.
High inflation reduced consumer spending in India resulting in a very weak demand environment.
And this was partially offset by strong unit growth in China and continued productivity improvements across the region.
Turning to Slide 19.
In the third quarter our Europe Middle East and Africa sales increased 6% year-over-year to $874 million with unit shipments flat compared to the prior periods.
Excluding the favorable impact of currency sales decreased approximately 3%.
The region reported an operating loss of $12 million versus a $26 million profit last year.
Results were unfavorably impacted by significantly higher material costs lower product price/mix and production reductions to align inventory to its demand which were partially offset by cost reductions and productivity initiatives.
Slide 20 shows a summary of our Latin American third quarter results.
The region reported sales of $1.2 billion an 8% increase from the prior year period with appliance unit shipments down 5%.
Excluding the impact from currencies sales increased approximately 1%.
Operating profits totaled $147 million compared to $143 million in the prior year.
Cost reduction and productivity initiatives increased monetization of tax credits and favorable price/mix impacted results.
These factors were offset by notably higher material and oil-related costs and production cuts to keep inventories in line with demand.
Our third quarter results in the Asia region are shown on Slide 21.
Net sales increased 10% during the quarter to $215 million up from $195 million in the prior year period as unit shipments increased 4%.
Excluding the impact of currency sales increased approximately 7%.
The region's operating profit was $4 million for the quarter compared to $5 million in the prior year.
Overall declining volumes high inflation and high material costs in India were offset by volume improvement in China and ongoing productivity initiatives.
On Slide 22 you can see a sampling of our new products launched in the third quarter around the world including: a Whirlpool brand Green Generation dishwasher in Europe featuring the lowest water consumption of any dishwasher in the industry; a Consul brand washing machine in Brazil featuring a detergent and softener dispenser that can be preloaded for up to 10 washes; and a Whirlpool brand washing machine in China featuring both the smallest footprint and the largest load capacity in the market.
In closing several of the cost reduction actions today are specifically designed to address higher raw material cost and lower demand levels particularly in Western Europe.
The actions that Jeff outlined at the start of this call will reduce manufacturing capacity and high cost locations to support margin expansion and strengthen our overall global competitive position.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Roy Templin for his financial review.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Beginning on Slide 24 I would like to summarize the main drivers of our third quarter results.
Our sales grew by more than 2% to $4.6 billion.
We benefited from both price/mix and currency.
Excluding the impact of currency sales were down slightly on global unit volumes which decreased 2.3% from the prior year.
We continued to face elevated raw material and oil-related cost which peaked in August.
Additionally weaker-than-expected industry demand resulted in further production reductions.
We continue to tightly manage inventory levels given the challenging and volatile global demand environment and we continue to expect year-end inventories to be in the $2.6 billion range.
Based on volume and product mix we monetized $62 million of BPX credits compared to $56 million in the prior year.
Turning to the income statement on Slide 25.
You will note that our gross margin contracted 190 basis points or 12.4%.
The most significant unfavorable impact on our gross margin was higher material cost.
This was partially offset by favorable product price/mix and positive productivity despite significant production declines.
SG&amp;A expense totaled $394 million compared with $391 million in the prior year.
As a percentage of sales SG&amp;A was down slightly from the prior year as a result of lower infrastructure cost.
Restructuring expenses totaled $36 million during the quarter and resulted from cost reduction actions in Europe and North America.
In light of today's announcement which Jeff discussed earlier we now expect to record restructuring charges of approximately $160 million during 2011.
Turning to Slide 26.
I wanted to point out interest and sundry expense.
While several individual line items roll into this caption on the income statement the key year-over-year reduction was related to legal contingencies incurred during the prior year.
We reported diluted earnings per share of $2.27 per share compared with $1.02 per share in the prior year or $2.35 per share and $2.22 per share on an adjusted basis.
Included in our results is a tax benefit primarily due to the recognition of $122 million in energy tax credits.
For the full year we now expect approximately $350 million of energy tax credits which is on the high end of our previously disclosed range.
Moving to our free cash flow results on Slide 27.
We reported a free cash flow use of $739 million in the 9-month period of 2011 compared to a use of $1 million in the prior year.
Current year results were impacted by lower cash earnings and include $266 million in pension contributions and a $301 million payment related to the settlement of the Brazilian collection dispute.
I want to spend a few minutes on the expected impact of the actions we announced today.
Slide 28 shows our current estimate of how the $500 million in restructuring cost will be allocated over the next 2 years.
It'll be approximately $105 million in the fourth quarter of this year approximately $280 million in 2012 and approximately $115 million in 2013.
Slide 29 shows the anticipated efficiencies of approximately $200 million in both 2012 and another $200 million in 2013.
You've heard us talk today a lot about capacity reduction.
And here again you see on approximate 6 million unit target based on today's announcement and other actions already underway in 2011.
It is important to keep in mind that this is high-cost capacity take out designed to reduce our fixed cost structure not limit our ability to boost production when demand levels improve.
Before I turn the call back over to Jeff I want to talk briefly about CapEx.
I often get questions on capital allocation and given today's announcement I thought it would be helpful to provide a high-level breakdown that you can see on Slide 30.
While there is some variance year-to-year generally speaking and looking at a historical 3-year average capacity comprises 10% of our capital spend.
Maintenance of business is roughly 20% and cost efficiency and quality initiatives are roughly 30%.
You see innovation on the chart at 40%.
As you can see these investments are critical to position the company to successfully execute our strategy particularly with respect to bringing a cadence of innovation to the market and continued improvements in cost and quality.
As Jeff mentioned earlier continued innovation investment is a big piece of our long-term growth strategy in both the core appliance business as well as adjacent business opportunities.
At this point I'll turn the call back over to Jeff.
Thanks Roy.
As I mentioned previously we are focused on aggressively expanding our operating margins and executing all of the actions which we described on Slide 22 that we've discussed on today's call.
I'd like to turn to Slide 33.
Many of you may remember about last year at this time we hosted an Investors' Day and shared our value creation targets which used 2010 economic data as a basis.
At the time we certainly didn't foresee the extraordinary material cost inflation or the weakening of industry demand levels that we've seen this year.
And of course these macroeconomic assumptions were critical elements of setting our long-range financial goals and timeline.
Certainly these challenges have delayed our revenue growth and the rate of improvement margin improvement for most of this year.
And we do expect the volatility we've seen in the global macroeconomy will have a continued impact on the industry demand in the near term.
Having said that we still remain confident in our ability to achieve our long-range financial goals including achieving 8% operating margin.
However given current economic conditions it may take us additional time to realize these targets.
Turning to Slide 34 we show what we expect to be the main contributors to our margin expansion.
The first are the announcements we're making today regarding fixed cost capacity reduction.
We expect this result in 2 points of margin expansion in 2012 and '13.
Secondly we expect ongoing productivity initiatives to more than offset inflation going forward and positively contribute to our margins.
Next as you heard from many of our speakers today we expect improved price/mix driven by innovation and already announced or implemented cost-based price increases and we expect this to have substantial margin impact next year.
We also continue to grow our adjacent businesses which are providing positive mix in our margins.
These businesses are growing at a faster rate and offer higher margins than our core appliance business.
And finally in the midterm we do believe we will see normalized demand returned which will also have a positive impact on our margins.
While any one of these individual assumptions may vary we have strong confidence that our long-range targets can be achieved given the strength of our brands and product innovation I believe our proven ability over time to reduce cost and the growth we are seeing in our adjacent businesses.
Ultimately we do believe the industry demand environment is a shorter-term challenge and we're confident in the opportunities that we see in all parts of our business to grow.
And some of those examples are on Slide 35.
So in summary we have not changed our expectations or commitment to execute our roadmap for growth and value creation.
Overall we believe the actions announced today will strengthen our global competitive position.
I believe our cost and capacity reduction initiatives our recently announced cost-based price increases and continued innovation investment will in fact expand our operating margins and deliver long-term shareholder value.
With that I'd like to end the formal remarks and open this up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research Company.
This is Tom Mahoney calling in for Eric today.
You guys commented about price/mix and that it would add substantially to margin in 2012.
How do you think about this being relative to an industry that's getting more competitive in the U.S.
and in Brazil plus the consumer that is more focused on value and lower prices rather than higher prices at this point? Tom this is Jeff Fettig.
You know first of all we've -- we just had an important turning point in that third quarter where price/mix has turned positive for us.
And this is after several quarters 4 or 5 quarters of negative price/mix more driven by what I would call very aggressive competitive actions in the marketplace and a lot of major markets.
We're seeing a very strong acceptance to our new product innovation.
Given the economics of this business we've made the decision that we had to pass price increases through based on the high cost that we're seeing and we're adjusting our business accordingly.
I don't -- this is not a consumer issue.
There are -- the price points that remained and -- the affordability factor and the price points that remain in the marketplace today will be there tomorrow.
It's the value feature content for what you saw at the price.
In the case of the U.S.
yes this is the biggest replacement market percentage wise we've ever seen.
So people are buying -- or people who's products break and they're in the market for 2 or 3 days and they buy a new one.
So I think the tough economic environment we agree with.
We do believe people particularly if they've been in the market -- haven't bought a new washing machine or refrigerator for 8 or 10 years recognize the new innovation value and are willing to pay for it.
But we also know that there is a small percentage of very very limited price-only shoppers that may buy the opening price point.
And we're just -- that's just not a piece of the market that we're as heavily invested in.
Okay.
And then a follow-up on Latin America.
What do you guys see as the driver of the swing in unit demand there? 2Q up 21%; and 3Q down to 5%.
Is it the market? Is there any moving pieces you can share there? And then also does it temper your expectations as you look into 2012 for the region? Tom this is Mike Todman.
What we've seen in Brazil as we have seen in some other emerging markets is inflation.
And that's what's caused the kind of the consumer dampening for our types of products if you will durable goods.
Having said that what we saw -- if you take our core 3 products in Brazil which is washers refrigerators and ranges we actually did see increases.
Where we saw decreases was in some -- was in air conditioners and microwaves and particularly at the low end.
So what we're expecting is to have an environment that's less favorable if you will.
But we still expect to see some positive growth in the region.
And we'll go next to Ken Zener with KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> Marc you had said you expected improvements.
I believe you're referring to North America in the fourth quarter.
Could you give us a sense -- I mean if you were talking about the $2.6 million in the third quarter? Or was that the year-over-year versus the $1.7 million.
Ken it's Marc I was referring to the essentials and given the poor margins of Q4 relative [ph] also the year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know you guys said that the largest headwind to your gross margin was material.
But could you kind of talk about given the -- I mean I think obviously people had seen the AHAM data that was out there but you guys obviously took down the volume.
Would you be willing to quantify how much the volume was impacting you guys in terms of underproduction? Yes.
Ken this is Roy Templin.
A couple of things.
One your first part of your question on materials.
When you factor in the LIFO piece in the materials it was actually about 310 basis points negative on our margins in the third quarter.
That's the first part of your question.
The second part of your question though you're right.
Conversion was a really big deal on the quarter.
We took out roughly 6% of production units when you look at year-over-year production levels.
And that cost us Ken about 130 basis points in gross margins.
So typically we're at 2-point plus of productivity and cost takeout every quarter.
This quarter we were about 0.6 points and the reason is because we had 130 basis hit from production takedown.
Research Division</strong> Okay and I guess that 6% is referring to North America? That 6% is a global production number.
So global pro is down 6% year-over-year.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And now I guess just to be clear the 3% you reported in North America I know last quarter you guys had outpaced the AHAM data.
Would you say that 3% versus the 4% -- 3% North America decline versus the 4% AHAM data is more on a like-for-like basis versus last quarter? Ken it's Marc Bitzer.
Again let me also first verify what the typical T7 or T6 AHAM data is not exactly consistent with overall North American unit shipments because there are other products grouped in their segments.
Having said that when you particularly refer to market share markets share in a sequential base has been approximately flat or marginally up.
And in a year-over-year basis down.
And we'll take our next question from Sam Darkatsh with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of clarification questions and then one I guess meaty one.
First off the restructuring Roy that you had announced.
Is that incremental to core restructuring? Or is that going to be overall restructuring for the next couple of years? That's overall Sam.
So there's an incremental piece in 2011 but all these numbers are total restructuring that we expect.
So you see the stub in 2011 of $105 million.
That's about $80 million Sam for new initiatives and about $25 million for things that were already underway.
And then you see in '12 and '13 the $280 million and $150 million but those will be all-inclusive numbers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My second clarification question Marc what were specifically your North American unit expectations for Q4? Maybe I'm a little confused.
As I made in my script we basically refer to 2 numbers.
We refer to a full year number of down minus 3 to minus 5 and I was also referring to a Q4 numbers roughly in the range of minus 1 to minus 2 compared to last year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So then if you take a look -- I mean you just -- the industry just did a minus 4 and the comparison gets much more difficult in Q4.
And you're saying the promotional environment may even ease.
How does that put logically or rationally? I'm confused.
And Sam again it's Marc.
Of course there's a lot of uncertainty going forward on market or expectations in demand.
Having said that we know that there is a certain base element which is so strong and replacement-driven which almost puts a certain floor to the overall unit demand.
Of course yes it need to be seen but the overall demand level.
But again our model right now would indicate a minus 2 a minus 1 to minus 2.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay last question then I'll defer to others.
The U.S.
energy tax credit program is set to expire at the end of this year.
I guess there's some banding about in Congress as to potentially extending it.
If the program is allowed to -- at least theoretically is allowed to continue in its current form how much additional capacity do you have to -- in terms of incremental production of the applicable units since I believe the credits are based on incremental production on a year-on-year basis.
Sam this is Jeff.
There's a lot of pieces to that question.
First of all we don't have any insight to whether those will be extended or not.
The way we're planning is they expire at the end of the year and that's how we're playing the business one.
Two there are and it's been reported there is some bills bill proposals in Congress that potentially could include some type of continuation in these credits.
The how and what are the rules et cetera et cetera -- I mean first of all will they get passed? And second of all what will the content be? We don't know.
And again that's why we're not planning on anything.
The third question is those requirements would then determine how you calculate incremental.
But basically we'd have to sell more than we did this year and because we basically do our production based on what we saw.
Yes Sam.
This is Roy.
I mean it's a deep question you're right.
I think ultimately as you know a couple of factors.
One it's units produce above a ruling baseline.
And again as Jeff said the very important piece will be what will the new baseline be? Will there be a baseline? And secondarily of course there's always a total limit.
Right now it has to be on gross receipts.
But again what might that limit be? How might it be calculated? And once we -- if in fact they were extended we would have to first understand the components of legislation and figure out what it would mean for Whirlpool.
And we wouldn't dare be in a position to speculate on that at this point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But the capacity takeout announced today does not necessarily impact your ability to produce over and above what the baseline has been at least theoretically? It does not Sam.
And that's why in my script I was careful to talk about -- the focus that we have is on high-cost capacity but absolutely with laser focus on the ability to continue to sync it up if in fact and when in fact demand improves we have the availability to take capacity up.
And we'll take our next question from Robert Kelly with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> I had a question last quarter and you touched on it again during your earlier remarks.
You have a goal of about 200 basis points from cost productivity action that you try to get assuming that everything breaks your way with material and whatnot.
Do the actions that you announced today would that be incremental to that 200 basis point margin goal? How should we think about the structural changes that you announced today? Robert the way -- you should think about them the way we think about them.
You should look at the restructuring actions.
We expect to take down our fixed cost structure by $400 million.
That's why I said I expect that to be directly focused on expanding our margins.
Beyond that in a normal productivity year and this was not one in 2011 and if you go back to the last 4 or 5 years our productivity has exceeded our inflation in the business.
And so we have a global productivity program in place at all times and we would expect -- yes.
For example last year I think we achieved 3.5%.
This year with the high inflation raw material high inflation in the emerging markets this is candidly the worst inflation year we've ever seen.
But going forward and as we get more visibility next year we would expect that we're building our plans beyond the restructuring to have net positive productivity which would enable us to improve our margins as well.
LLC</strong> And then over and above the ratings [ph] announced.
That's correct.
LLC</strong> One final one if I may.
You talked about the raw material pain being behind you at this point.
Have you seen as far as the competitive landscape the urgency to match price increases or continue the price increases staying there with raw materials leveling off? Yes Robert let me -- first of all let me be clear on raw materials.
They've stabilized at a high level.
So they've not really -- in fact they haven't gone down.
And we don't -- again it's too early for us to talk about 2012 but we certainly don't expect to see the kind of increases that we saw throughout this year.
So not going up is viewed as a positive.
Regarding pricing candidly we can only comment on what we do.
I can't really make any comments about what competitors are doing.
And we'll take our next question from David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
I guess Jeff just what -- on the most recent question there you indicated that raw materials have stabilized at a high level.
I mean it's pretty clear that raw material markets are rolling over pretty hard here.
Do you have hedges in place or contractual obligations that are going to keep you at these price levels and represent some divergence from what's happening at spot markets? Yes David.
If you look at our cost structure for raw materials steel resin base metals copper oil related so on those dynamics -- everyone of those markets has its own contract structures.
And on base -- let's just take base metals we've talked about this before we have a very consistent forward hedging policy that we within limits adhere to at all times.
When metals are going up we usually enter the curve.
When metals are going down we may cross over for a while be over the curve.
But the point is it's predictable for us.
And even with the metals market I mean at which point in time do we talk about? Because the volatility as you know has been very extreme.
So that's one.
Two resins have been one of the biggest increases this year.
I think quarter-over-quarter our spot rate for resins is 25% up.
Those contracts are negotiated all the time.
They're generally shorter term durations.
And so they go up and down with the market.
Steel is a little bit different as we've talk about in the past.
And in the emerging markets steels everyday every week discussion.
In both Europe and North America we have multiple types of structural contracts with -- that do provide us within the limits and predictability for an annual period of time but we don't have any steel contracts going on an annual period.
So there's a lot of volatility but I just -- to be clear raw materials have not really gone down.
In fact as we said based on the set of contracts and the way we the mechanisms we have we actually think we peaked out meaning increases in the third quarter and now look forward to some stabilization without having increases month-over-month quarter-over-quarter.
I guess the other question was just given the announcement yesterday on the trade cases there's a lot of interest in that this morning.
Can you just talk about the potential to pursuit other trade actions based on how this looks like it's playing out? Yes David.
Let me first -- as I said we're very pleased with the progress on the trade case that we had in the U.S.
And just to be clear there's 3 parts to the process.
Last May there was a 5 to 0 ruling by the Commission that there was grounds for this.
This was the second step in the process which was very important where Department of Commerce had issued their preliminary ruling.
And now we enter the last phase which is -- every phase is important.
The last phase is the auditing process where all materials will be verified with an expected final ruling in late April or early May.
So we in our statement reiterated our confidence in our position and we're very confident as were when we filed the case.
We're not speculating on anything beyond that.
We don't do that and so we're really focused on this case.
Okay good.
Just last question my understanding is that you elected to take Maytag out of Best Buy.
And I'm just wondering if there's many major changes going on in terms of brand strategy with Maytag and is there a market share delta there that we should be talking about? David it's Marc Bitzer.
What I would prefer in this case -- and we usually don't comment on specific trade partner arrangements.
There's always a lot of tactical SKU moves.
In this specific case you need to also keep in mind that the initial volume we meet are very very very small.
Have you changed your brand strategy there? No.
Yes our brand strategy is really built around consumers.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question I was hoping just to go back to raw materials for a moment.
I don't believe you've quantified what the full year expected headwind is now at and I was curious if you could do that.
Because obviously it's I think one of the key drivers to the reduced guidance.
And as part of the raw material conversation I understand that certainly a big issue of this is just how it works through the system and again some of the hedging.
But as mentioned earlier -- I mean at this point you have cold rolled down 20% from year earlier peaks.
You obviously have oil and other materials down as well.
Why wouldn't that necessarily be a little bit of a tailwind in 2012? Michael this is Roy.
Let me first of all answer I think the first couple parts of your question.
First of all our full year outlook continues to be $450 million to $500 million as it was last time we provided guidance.
So there's been no change in terms of the full year outlook.
And I think Jeff gave a thorough response to David's question maybe a little more mathematics behind it for your perspective.
If you look at local corporations sort of quarter in quarter out; period in period out if you look at what we have in the way of fixed contract what we've protected through cash collars hedges et cetera what you find Michael is about 60% is covered with some kind of derivative or fixed contract and the other 40% is floating.
So to build on all of the things that Jeff said from a mathematical perspective those are the numbers behind how much is fixed and how much floats and is variable.
And Michael your second question I think that -- general discussion about weak demand levels and high inflation don't tend to go together but that is the environment.
And that's what it's been.
And we're not prepared to talk about 2012 yet.
As I said we will in early February.
And candidly there's a lot of discussions and negotiations going on between now and then too.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate it.
The second question just to hit back on some of the anti-dumping the preliminary ruling there can you give us any sense of ultimately what that means on a practical basis in terms of the market? I understand that obviously there's some tariffs that would have to be put in place if prices aren't raised by some of those parties.
What does that mean on a practical level? I mean do expect there just to be some further price increases then or price adjustments by the competitors? Would there be a reduction in the volume of those competitors if they don't necessarily act immediately? Or would this alternatively be just more tied up by more litigation in the near-term? Michael it's Marc Bitzer.
Let me first try to answer question to -- first of all what is factually happening.
Okay? What's factually happened is as of next week a number of importers Samsung and LG being among them will be liable to pay dumping duties if they fail to set U.S.
wholesale prices to fair value.
So they basically have to submit bond basically.
That is what's going to happen factually.
What will also happen in the course of March April and the final announcement in 2012 is the final determination which is based on the formal in-depth order by the DOC which will reveal a lot of -- full picture.
So that's what's actually happening.
What different players will do in the marketplace from my perspective is pure speculation at this point.
I can't say how they will deal with that and that somewhat needs to be seen and that needs to be viewed in subsequent months.
Yes.
And just to be clear also -- so the period that this begins is next week is November 2.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So that would effectively be addressed by the posting of a bond and I guess we'll get the final determinations late 1Q? No we're in May.
I mean there's a public schedule by the agencies which give you exactly the process and the dates.
In fact it should be on our press release yesterday.
Research Division</strong> No no it is.
I appreciate that.
One last one if I could the pension expense that was reiterated any initial thoughts in terms of -- is that type of a level something that we can expect the contribution level over the next few years? I know you didn't necessarily want to talk about guidance but given all the changes in -- market assumptions and return assumptions if you could have any comments on that front would be helpful.
Sure Michael.
I can't go fully into 2012 but I can give you perspective here.
Our defined benefit pension expense this year will be roughly $28 million with the expense next year what can we give you[ph] a finite number will not be significantly different than that number.
So the first part of your question on expense you should expect next year to be very similar to this year.
From a funding perspective we're going to end up funding just under $300 million this year.
If you ask me to estimate while it's not perfect what we'll fund next year I would guess it would be approximately $250 million.
So down about $50 million from this year.
And we'll take our final question from Josh Pollard with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My first question is for Mike Todman on Brazil.
I want to understand everything that's really going on there.
You're talking about production cuts in Latin America which is not something that we were expecting.
Electrolux about an hour ago said that the market was up 4%.
You said that your volumes or your shipments were down 5% and your margins are right around that 7% level x BEFIEX.
Should we be thinking about this as a 7% margin business until something changes on the demand function? And where do you feel like your share is headed? Yes let me comment -- first of all address the first piece of that.
What I said to an earlier question is actually when you look at the core 3 products we actually saw an increase in our sales of around 5%.
Where we actually had some decreases which we elected to is in microwaves and air conditioners really at the low end.
So Josh that's where we made the adjustments that we needed to make.
And I feel very good about kind of where and how we're positioned if you will in the marketplace on -- in terms of both our competitiveness and our ability to maintain our share.
So I'm very comfortable that in the 4 categories we've done that.
Yes.
And in fact Mike if I can just so Josh -- just so you're not confused the 6% reduction takedown that I referenced earlier and again I've mentioned that's a global number.
And so Mike is exactly right when you look at production in the Latin America region by itself production is in fact up year-over-year.
It is not down.
Okay just for clarity.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And I guess the other part of your question is our operating margins.
And actually what we saw even if you strip out BEFIEX our operating margins went up.
They were around above 8% okay? So not at 7%.
And what we have done is we've executed some price increases in the marketplace already and we're beginning to see the positive effect of those.
So we expect that our margin will continue to improve throughout the business.
Josh I'd just add -- the only other color I'd add to that is we're still very positive at our Latin America business.
It had spectacular growth.
We don't see easing of growth for shorter periods of time as a bad thing given some of the inflation that's going on in those markets.
But the general trend has been and I think continues to be up.
There's a lot of talk about what's going on in the Brazil market.
I guess there's a lot of clarification we can add to that but the point is we feel very good about our position.
We have implemented price increases in Brazil.
That was a conscious decision given all the inflation there and actually feel very good about our business there.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
I'd love to discuss with you guys how you get to the 8% plus when -- maybe after the call if you guys have some time.
My second question is around cash flow for 2012.
I'm just going through a couple of line items between the Brazilian cash settlement the pension contribution that you mentioned a few minutes ago the cash restructuring that you guys outlined and then the makeup of your CapEx of roughly maybe being flat next year.
I get cash sort of cash obligations just from those 4 buckets of about $1.4 billion next year.
I'm wondering am I off on that? I'm trying to understand how you guys get to cash flow positive next year when you add that and also consider the debt that you have due in '12.
Josh it's Roy.
Well first of all no I don't think you're off in terms of assumptions you're making with respect to the payments for next year.
Again I mentioned to Michael what we think pension funding will be -- you're exactly right.
We do have a softer payment and we have some significant outflows next year.
But what we haven't talked about yet and unfortunately what we can't talk about on this call because we're quite frankly just not prepared is all the other components of operating cash flow.
In particular the delta and cash earnings when you look year-over-year to next year et cetera what we're going to do with working capital.
And when you see that side then I think the story will come together better for you.
But in terms of have you identified some big cash outflows next year that we are in fact seeing as headwinds in cash flow yes we have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last -- if I could sneak one last one in on the promotional environment.
You guys made -- mentioned that it would be better.
I'm just comparing and contrasting that with the comments that we heard from Electrolux about an hour ago that they expected to be equal if not worse and a pretty big player here in the market.
I'm wondering just what gives you the confidence that the promotional environment would be better this year? I just really want to understand if there's something different about the sales environment or about the pricing or competitive environment that would suggest to you that the promotional environment could be better this holiday season.
Josh It's Marc Bitzer.
I was referring to our promotion plans for the holiday period.
And the big difference on our plans versus last year last year most of promotions were in the ballpark of 10 to 20 days.
Right now we're talking more about 6 to 10 days maximum.
So we roughly cut our promotional window if you want to say so in half.
It also means with our promotional price investments which we've put in to the holiday period is roughly half.
We are a very significant part of the market and that's what we can tell as far as actions.
I can't comment on any competitors' actions for the holiday period.
Yes.
And Josh and in fact we talked about this last quarter is that we given the high material cost given the fact that we were -- we had announced and now implemented price increases given the fact that this is a highly replacement market that's what drove the decision making we had around our own plans.
And Josh it's Marc Bitzer just to add also on this one.
Maybe that explains our own reasoning.
In hindsight if you look at specifically promotions windows around Labor Day or July 4 the typical lift which we saw in the market from promotions in the market was a fraction of the past.
That's why you just don't get where -- we don't expect any return from promotional investments and that's our decision.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I sneak one last one in? Yes.
Last one Josh.
Research Division</strong> All right I promise this is the last one.
From a strategy standpoint it seems like between your production cuts the focus on not being as promotional last year that you guys are taking on a strategy to be more profit-focused over market share-focused.
And I recognize that you don't always have to make the decision one versus the other.
But given the industry dynamics it seems like that's one of the decisions that has to be made.
Are you guys leaning more -- if having to choose between those 2 are you guys leaning on the side of profit margins? And if you just want to talk about any initial plans for that $350 million? Josh let me wrap that up.
I wouldn't call it strategy.
I would say if you look at the margins and the profitability that we -- yes I tried to be very clear about that.
Our #1 priority has been operating margin.
With the material cost increases that we've seen we're not overly interested in selling appliances for a loss.
So that's not really  strategy that's just value creation.
And so our strategy is to drive innovation drive great brands and get appropriately paid for those products.
And so even in our restructuring plans that's why we focused on taking high-cost capacity of low-profit segments offline because we didn't see a near-term path to create value from that.
So listen everyone I appreciate you joining us today.
Thank you.
We look forward to talking to you next time.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to Whirlpool Corp's.
Fourth Quarter and Year End 2011 Earnings Release Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Senior Director of Investor Relations Jel[ph] Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Whirlpool Corp.
Fourth Quarter and Year End 2011 Conference Call.
Joining me today are Jeff Fettig our Chairman and CEO; Mike Todman President of Whirlpool International; Marc Bitzer President of Whirlpool North America; and Larry Venturelli our Chief Financial Officer.
Our remarks today track with the presentation available on the Investor section of our website at whirlpoolcorp.com.
Before we begin let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements to assist you in understanding Whirlpool Corp's future expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially from these statements due to many factors discussed in our latest 10-K and 10-Q as well as in the appendix of the presentation.
Turning to Slide 2.
We want to remind you that today's presentation includes non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures are important indicators of our operations as they exclude items that may not be indicative of or unrelated to results from our ongoing business operations.
We also think that the adjusted measures will provide you with a better baseline for analyzing trends in our ongoing business operation.
Listeners are directed to the Appendix section of our presentation beginning on Slide 37 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP items to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
With that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Well good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on the call today.
Earlier this morning as you saw we released our fourth quarter and yearend financial results.
And I'd say to sum up Q4 we did exit the year with good momentum coming from improving price/mix significantly lower inventory levels and a continued strong cadence of new product introductions.
With these positive trends we are well-positioned for margin expansion earnings growth in the coming year.
Turning to Slide 4 we'll talk about our full year results.
In 2011 we reported annual net sales of $18.7 billion up 2%.
Our GAAP net earnings per share were $4.99 compared to $7.97 in 2010.
And as we discussed quite a bit last year we did have higher material and oil-related cost which came in at approximately $450 million and that significantly impacted our results last year.
Turning to Slide 5 you'll see a recap of the actions we previously discussed that we're focusing on to improve our operating results.
As we expected the global conditions remain challenging particularly driven by Europe which is driven by the Euro debt concerns.
However we have made substantial progress on the actions which we outlined last October.
And those were to improve our operating profitability to reduce our fixed cost structure to realize previously announced price increases and to continue to deliver a very strong cadence of new product introductions.
And these actions already have began to yield results that you see in the fourth quarter.
During the quarter our North American region delivered a 2x margin improvement year-over-year despite a 3% industry unit decline.
We see the strength of our global brand portfolio is evident as we continue to see strong consumer preference for innovative new product offerings and this is driving a positive mix and margin.
Our cost reduction and capacity reduction actions which we announced last October are on track and as we said then we expect them to yield  $200 million in fixed cost savings in 2012 and another $200 million in 2013.
We also continue to drive strong cash flow from our ongoing business operation which has enabled us to fund a number of legacy liabilities in 2011.
As a reminder these included over $300 million related to a Brazilian collection dispute $44 million related to antitrust resolutions and $298 million in pension contributions.
In total these legacy items were funded by almost $650 million but even with these items we ended the year in a very strong financial position and with $1.1 billion of cash at year end.
Also while we have benefited historically from both U.S.
energy tax credits and Brazilian BEFIEX tax credits we do recognize that this has created some difficulties in evaluating our ongoing business operations.
Due to this we have clearly defined our ongoing business operational performance by showing our baseline operating results without x items which are restructuring U.S.
energy tax credits and the monetization of BEFIEX tax credits.
So then turning to Slide 6 looking at just our ongoing business operations last year our net earnings per share were $2.05 compared to $4.47 in 2010.
Our cash from ongoing business operations without legacy liabilities was approximately $400 million last year.
Turning to Slide 7 and 8 you'll see our 2012 priorities and how the actions that we've outlined are expected to impact our results.
Again we are focused very strongly on margin expansion and we expect the actions that we've already taken to have a significant positive impact for the year.
We will continue to benefit from the global price increases we took last year as their  benefits carryover into 2012.
In addition we implemented price increases in several large markets but went into effect at the beginning of January of this year.
We also will continue the strong -- the cadence of strong product innovation which will contribute to overall revenue growth mix and operating profit.
Even in the fourth quarter we have begun the benefits from our cost capacity reduction actions which will accelerate throughout the year in 2012.
And lastly we still see this year 2012 estimated raw material inflation to be a headwind and we're forecasting those increases to be between $300 million and $350 million but we expect to more than offset these costs with our other normal strong productivity activities.
Turning to Slide 9 it summarizes our current demand outlook for the year.
Overall globally we expect flat to slightly positive demand growth around the world.
In the U.S.
we expect demand to be flat to up 3% with the demand primarily being driven by replacement purchases as we saw last year.
In Europe we're forecasting a demand decline of 2% to 5% for the full year as consumer confidence in the Eurozone remains weak.
We see -- continue to see strong underlying economic fundamentals in Brazil and other Latin American countries and are forecasting demand growth in the 2% to 5% range.
And finally we expect moderate growth of 2% to 4% in Asia this year.
So taking all these factors into account our assumptions on the external environment but more specifically the factors which we are executing and have put in place we expect to deliver GAAP EPS this year 2012 in the range of $5 to $5.50 per share and overall positive free cash flow of $100 million to $150 million.
On an ongoing operational GAAP basis x-ing out the items I previously described our guidance this year is $6.50 to $7 per share and we expect cash flow from our ongoing business operations to be $950 million to $1 billion.
So with that I'm going to turn over to Marc Bitzer for his review and comments on North America.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Let me start by giving my perspective on North America's performance for the quarter.
As shown on Slide 12 we realized more than 2x profit improvement year-over-year which is a clear indication that our previously announced actions are yielding intended results.
All previously announced price increases are fully implemented including the most recent 6% to 7% price increase effective January 1 2012.
As you know these increases are necessary to mitigate higher material costs.
As a result of a cost base price increases our margins have substantially improved both sequentially and year-over-year.
And we are well-positioned to expand margins in 2012.
For the quarter sales grew 1% despite an industry shipment decline of 3% and margins improved significantly during the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to the same period last year even if adjusted for the non-operating supply recovery and curtailment gain.
However raw materials continue to be a headwind for us and we continue to take actions to adjust our inventory to industry demand.
On Slide 13 you see our annual U.S.
industry T7 units since 2005.
For 2011 the year ended this demand bumping along the bottom at these recessionary levels we saw in 2009.
It is clear that replacement is driving demand at this point.
Approximately 60% of all consumer purchases are direct -- are replacement purchases.
Based on this we expect North America industry shipments to be flat to up 3% in 2012.
On Slide 14 you'll see North America's financial performance in the fourth quarter.
Regarding our overall unit volume we saw our North America unit shipment down 3% in the fourth quarter which is in line with the U.S.
industry decline of 3%.
The net sales of $2.6 billion grew 1% from last year driven by improved product price/mix.
Turning to Slide 15 you can see a sampling of our innovative new products that we launched throughout the year.
Before I hand it over to Mike I want to highlight our business priority for North America in 2012 as shown in Slide 16.
As Jeff had mentioned we're primarily focused on actions driving margin expansion.
In 2012 we will build upon the positive momentum we saw in Q4 but stable the price/mix and pricing carryover will continue and pricing would grow with the recently implemented January price increase.
The cost and capacity reduction initiative that we introduced in the last earnings call are on track to generate the expected benefits.
And we will continue to leverage our strong product innovation and higher-margin adjacent businesses for growth over long-term.
Let me close with some comment on the antidumping petition we filed in December 30.
We took necessary actions to promote a fair and open global trading system protect American jobs and to innovate and invest in America by filing antidumping and countervailing due to petitions for large residential clothes washers with South Korea and Mexico.
We expect to receive a final determination on this petition February 2013 and a final determination related to earlier open market refrigerator petition in May of this year.
While neither investigation is yet complete we remain very confident about both cases.
And now I'd like to turn over to Mike for his review of our international operations.
Thanks Marc.
I'll begin on Slide 18 with a review of our international business.
During the year high material cost and soft demand were global issues and we saw high inflation and low consumer confidence slow the rapid growth rates in emerging markets.
Europe remained the most challenging region from an international perspective as the European financial crisis drove weak consumer demand across the Euro zone.
We focused significant restructuring resources and significantly reduced production in the European region beginning in the fourth quarter to better align our cost with industry demand levels and lower our fixed cost structure going forward.
We are confident that these actions will positively impact our future performance in Europe.
In Latin America as you may know the Brazilian government declared an appliance sales tax holiday in December.
As a result we monetized less BEFIEX during the quarter.
The stimulus program set to expire on March 31 is similar to the program instituted by the Brazilian government in 2009 that drove increased demand in the region and lasted for 9 months.
Irrespective of the stimulus program however we continue to be very positive about the prospects for our Latin America business.
In Asia we experienced growth in China while high inflation dampened consumer sentiment leading to a reduction in demand in India for the quarter and the year.
Turning to Slide 19.
In the fourth quarter our Europe Middle East and Africa sales decreased 8% year-over-year to $848 million with unit shipments down 4% compared to the prior period.
Excluding the favorable impact of currency sales decreased approximately 7%.
The region reported an operating loss of $32 million versus the $29 million profit last year.
Results were unfavorably impacted by weak consumer confidence higher material costs and significantly lower production to adjust to a weak industry demand in the region and then slightly negative product price/mix.
We expect our cost reduction actions ongoing productivity initiatives and previously announced price increases will have a positive effect on results going forward and we will return to solidly profitable position this year.
Slide 20 shows the summary of our Latin America fourth quarter results.
The region reported sales of $1.3 billion down 5% from the prior-year period with appliance unit shipments down 4%.
Excluding the impact of currency sales decreased approximately 1%.
Our demand decline was mix driven.
Through pricing actions we purposely reduced our sales of lower end products such as microwave ovens and air conditioners while maintaining our strong share in the critical categories of washers refrigerators and cooking.
Operating profit totaled $155 million compared to $193 million in the prior year.
Favorable product price/mix was offset by lower monetization of tax credits higher material costs unfavorable currency and reduced production levels.
On an adjusted basis excluding BEFIEX tax credits operating profit for the quarter totaled $96 million compared to $112 million in the prior-year period.
Our fourth quarter results in the Asia region are shown on Slide 21.
Net sales decreased 2% during the quarter to $200 million down from $204 million in the prior year period with flat unit shipments.
Excluding the impact of currency sales increased approximately 4%.
The region's operating profit was $2 million for the quarter compared to $4 million in the prior year.
Overall favorable product price/mix and volume improvement in China was offset by higher material costs and weak consumer demand in India.
Turning to Slide 22 you can see just a few examples of our new products that we launched in 2011.
We have innovative product launches in every major category around the world.
Turning to Slide 23.
We are focused on executing the margin expansion actions already in place.
We expect to benefit from: one our previously announced price increases in every region of the world; two cost and capacity reduction initiatives in Europe; and three ongoing productivity programs.
Overall we are well-positioned for a solid performance throughout the year.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Larry Venturelli for his financial review.
Thanks Mike and good morning.
Beginning on Slide 25 I would like to summarize the main drivers of our fourth quarter results.
While we did have significantly improved year-over-year price/mix during the quarter our sales declined approximately 3% to $4.9 billion primarily due to lower industry volume and the impact of currency.
Excluding currency sales were down 1 point on global unit volumes which decreased 3.5 points from the prior year.
Raw material and oil-related costs continued to be a headwind during the quarter and given industry demand trends we significantly reduced production to align inventory with the current demand environment.
Overall we ended the year with $2.4 billion of inventory which is $700 million lower than where we were in June and more than $400 million lower than December last year.
We are very well-positioned with our inventories entering 2012.
Based on volume and product mix we monetized $59 million of BEFIEX credits compared to $81 million in the prior year which was lower than expected due to the tax holiday that went into effect on December 1 in Brazil.
For the year $266 million of credits were recognized.
Turning to the income statement on Slide 26 you will note that our operating profit was up slightly from the previous year.
Results were positively impacted by continued improvement in price/mix and cost productivity.
Higher raw material cost lower production to adjust inventories to weak global industry demand and lower monetization of Brazilian tax credits adversely impact the results during the quarter.
Results also included significantly higher restructuring expense at the benefit of $96 million from a previously disclosed supplier recovery and benefit plan curtailment gain.
Turning to Slide 27 you'll see that the income tax benefit we recorded in the quarter was primarily the result of recognizing approximately $110 million of energy tax credits.
For the year $366 million of credits are included in our results.
As a note it's important to point out that the energy tax credit program in the U.S.
was not extended into 2012.
Primarily due to the conclusion of this program our 2012 effective tax rate will be in the 26% to 29% expense range.
We reported diluted EPS of $2.62 per share in the quarter compared with $2.19 per share in the prior year.
Moving to our free cash flow results on Slide 28.
We reported a free cash flow use of $55 million for the year compared to the generation of $502 million last year.
It's important to point out that full year results include approximately $300 million in pension contributions and approximately $300 million for the first of 2 payments related to the Brazilian collection dispute.
Specifically you can see our working capital improvement in 2011 driven largely by significant inventory reductions.
I will go into further detail regarding free cash flow from our ongoing business operations in a few minutes.
Finally included within other cash are the pension and legacy legal liability payments we made during the year.
As Jeff introduced earlier on the call our 2012 guidance is shown on Slide 29.
For 2012 we expect to deliver diluted EPS in the range of $5 to $5.50 per share and positive free cash flow of $100 million to $150 million.
As you will note we are forecasting significant improvement in our ongoing business operations during 2012.
To provide further clarity and comparability between both our reported GAAP results and GAAP guidance with our ongoing business operations performance we have included a table on Slide 30 which I'd like to provide some comments and perspective on.
I'll first discuss tax credits which have been recognized as a direct result of our operating performance for the past several years and are either concluding or have a limited remaining life.
First you will note that our 2012 earnings guidance does not include any benefit from the U.S.
energy tax benefit program given that that program was not renewed at the end of 2011.
Therefore we're adjusting 2011 results to facilitate comparability between the years.
Secondly over the past several years we have realized BEFIEX tax credits through our operating performance in Brazil.
I'd like to provide some detail regarding our remaining credits.
At the end of the third quarter 2011 $383 million of credits had not been monetized.
During the fourth quarter as I mentioned we monetized $59 million of credits.
Two additional adjustments to available credits were made during the fourth quarter.
First the strengthening U.S.
dollar versus the real reduced credits by $24 million.
Second based on changes to government inflation index tables in Brazil there was a $62 million reduction to future available credit monetization.
Therefore based on credits recognized to date changes to applicable government inflation factors and currency translation there's approximately $240 million of future cash monetization remaining.
Given that these are near completion of monetizing we have also adjusted both our 2011 actuals and 2012 guidance to facilitate year-over-year ongoing business operation comparisons.
For 2012 our guidance includes $60 million to $80 million of BEFIEX credits compared to the $266 million recognized in 2011.
As Mike mentioned last December the Brazilian government announced tax breaks to consumers which are essentially identical to the program enacted during 2009 which was extended and remained in effect for 9 months.
This program significantly reduced the amount of BEFIEX credits we could recognize.
For all of 2009 we recognized $69 million of credits.
We are modeling our 2012 guidance similar to the previous program.
Should the current 4-month program not be extended to 9 months we would be able to monetize additional credits during 2012 of approximately $150 million.
The remaining $60 million balance is associated with court order fees which will be monetized in subsequent years.
In addition to tax credits we're also adjusting for restructuring expense.
As you know in October we announced the largest restructuring program in company history which is expected to be completed during 2013 and will provide approximately 200 in benefits -- $200 million in benefits during 2012 and an additional $200 million in benefits in 2013.
Slide 31 illustrates that we expect approximately $250 million to $270 million of a restructuring expense in 2012.
Our total program remains at approximately $500 million of expense beginning in Q4 2011 through 2013.
Finally during 2011 we had several unusual items including settlement of legacy legal liabilities supplier quality recovery and a benefit plan curtailment gain all of which are being adjusted for year-over-year comparability.
Taking into consideration all these items as shown on Slide 30 our ongoing operations from our business performance was $2.05 per share.
You will note that our 2012 GAAP guidance of $5 to $5.50 adjusted for 2012 BEFIEX tax credits and restructuring expense translates into an ongoing business operation outlook of $6.50 to $7 per share.
This represents a significant improvement from our ongoing business operation performance compared to 2011.
On Slide 32 we highlight the main drivers of our expected year-over-year ongoing business operations performance improvement.
During 2012 we expect 2-plus points of margin improvement from price/mix largely driven from material price increases implemented during 2011 as well as new price increases implemented in January approximately 1 point of margin improvement from restructuring benefits and we also expect that we will deliver between 0.5 to a Full point of margin expansion from our normal productivity.
This includes offsetting approximately $300 million to $350 million of year-over-year material cost headwinds.
And finally higher marketing investment increased benefit costs and unfavorable currency will reduce margins by approximately 1 point during 2012.
On Slide 33 you will note we have $55 million in free cash flow usage during 2011 and our guidance of positive $100 million to $150 million in 2012.
It's very important to note that we have significant cash outflows for legacy legal liabilities which will be largely behind us after this year and we also have the bulk of our restructuring program cash outflow during 2012.
Slide 33 depicts the underlying cash flow we are generating through our operations after taking account the short-life cash requirements.
Our underlying ongoing business operations' free cash flow improvement is largely driven by cash earnings which is a direct result of the components of the profitability improvements I discussed earlier as well as lower capital spending which is expected to be $500 million to $550 million compared to $608 million in 2011.
You will also note that our pension contribution will be $250 million compared to $298 million in 2011.
Before I close on Slide 34 I want to discuss our short-term cash flow priorities.
First it's important to point out that our legacy legal liabilities will be largely behind us after this year.
Given these required cash outflows our 2012 cash priorities are: funding the business which includes capital expenditures and pension contributions; dividends debt repayment and as I previously mentioned funding the remaining legacy legal liabilities.
Now I'll turn it over to Jeff.
Thanks Larry.
Let me sum up our comments today.
As I said at the beginning we are pleased with the momentum that we had coming out of 2011.
We are seeing and have seen improving price/mix.
Our inventory levels are in great shape and we have the strongest innovative product lineup we've ever had in our 101 year history.
On today's call as we outlined in October we talked in great detail about the actions that we've taken to accelerate our ongoing business operations posed to deliver long-term value for our shareholders.
We are executing very rapidly these strong actions and we expect them to continue to improve our operating margins through our cost and capacity reduction initiatives our ongoing productivity and the previously announced price increases.
Again we're planning for a flat to a slight improvement in demand.
We will have raw material inflation in the range we talked about but we expect to fully mitigate those increases through our productivity.
So overall based on these assumptions we do expect 2012 to be a strong year with ongoing business operations improvement and driving strong shareholder value.
So at that point in time I will conclude our formal comments and will open this up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from the side of Ken Zener with KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> I'm looking at Page 32 in your presentation.
The margin walk that you guys highlight.
If you look at the puts and takes how would you kind of rate the risk of each of these categories? If you could just give us some of that sensitivity to where the concerns are.
Obviously I think the pricing capacity is probably a fairly secure forecast but can you talk about the...
This is Jeff.
Again this is very similar to what we outlined in October but I would say this is that we have already turned around what for over a year was a very negative price margin mix hit to our earnings.
And certainly in the third quarter we have turned that from negative to positive.
You saw in the fourth quarter that ramped up very nicely.
So we're entering the year with a lot of positive momentum.
We're one month into the actions we took at the beginning of the year and we're very committed to this.
As you go around the world we haven't seen a material impact on our business from a market share standpoint.
This is enabled by a continuous strong flow of new product innovation.
So we may be losing some business in some areas we're making it up in other areas.
But net-net given our margin levels with external inflation we decided early last year this was a critical initiative that we're very committed to and we remain committed so I fully expect to deliver upon what we're saying here that the cost and capacity is the restructuring benefits.
I think as you know we have a very strong track record of delivering.
I expect the full $200 million that we committed to in October we will deliver this year.
The normal productivity of 0.5 to 1 point I'd say that I feel very good about our actions.
The 2 dimensions that affect that of course are raw materials which sitting here today we feel comfortable with the $300 million to $350 million.
That can change either way and demand which has an impact on conversion in the factory.
So right now we're very comfortable with what we're presenting and I would say in any of these that we have equal upside as we do downside and we're confident that we're going to deliver this kind of improvement in operating performance.
Ken just a couple of things to keep in mind as we talk about carryover price increases from last year.
As you remember those price increases really started building momentum here in the back half of the year.
In fact in the fourth quarter year-over-year we had about 3 point improvement.
So we're carrying over about 1 point to 1.5 points of price increases in the next year.
The second thing to build on what Jeff said if you think of the inventory takedown we had in the -- from the first half of last year to the end of the year I mean that cost us I would say from a conversion perspective at least 1 point so...
I'll make one final comment again on these dimensions is one is the pricing we expect to see to fully reflected in the first quarter onward.
Of course in the second half of the year we're up against different comps but for the full year it really -- has already started whereas restructuring benefits and productivity will hold follow their normal build that they increase as we go throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
Here's a question for Mark.
Looking at the strength in  the 4Q margins in North America at 4.1% which has led to -- connected to what looks like a 3% price gain.
Can you talk about rebates and if you held to the 10 to 20 days you mentioned in the third quarter call and if that discipline of rebates how that was -- did the retailers followed you what was their response if there's any confusion on their part? I appreciate that.
Ken it's Marc.
Let me first clarify so 4.1% margin for North America.
The 3% that Larry was referring to pricing was a global number.
The North America pricing on a year-over-year has been substantial above that number and has been in improvement on sequential base which is kind of unusual given what already occurred in Q4 and we feel very good about the pricing progress in Q4 and have been also the subsequent carryover to 2012.
Specifically to your question on the holiday period and I do appreciate that there has been a lot of reports out there not all of them are correct I think pretty much -- it unfolded the way how we expected it during our last earnings call.
And the fact that I say it's -- we said there's a high high amount of consumer direct demand out there and in that market environment we didn't see very strong return investment and promotional activities and we therefore reduced our investment compared to previous years.
That's what we've done and as a result of it our pricing has been pretty good in Q4.
Our overall promotion period was flatly short in previous year and that's how we managed it.
We feel pretty much reflects the way we expected it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess if I could have one last one is that favorable series of ITC rulings.
You had 2 petitions so far.
One's in a preliminary state of tariffs.
How would that flow through results and how should we look at it? So refrigerators that's already in place.
Can you comment on the benefit that you actually saw in fourth quarter perhaps year-over-year realizing the washing machine is still very very preliminary but you should have already started seeing that is there any clarification you can give us? Ken basically we're not -- I mean it's not done yet.
As Marc outlined there is another step of the process which will be completed by early May.
That's when the final determinations are made.
I think what you're referring to is the fact that preliminary duties came out at the end of October so basically [indiscernible] are potentially liable for after that date.
So in that standpoint that is true.
Our position is we're not really willing to comment on any changes on that until the case is determined and over with.
We move next to the side of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
Two I'd love some clarification on.
One can you give us the quantification of what price/mix was in 4Q and in total for 2011? Yes.
I'd say -- first let's say answer your second question -- this is Larry.
Price/mix as you recall was down 2 points in the first half.
That reversed in the second half so price/mix is essentially flat for the year.
If you look at fourth quarter year-over-year on the margin price/mix is up 3 points.
So 3 points in the fourth quarter 2 points in the back half of the year and then on that same metric the guidance is 2 points for all of 2012? Yes we said 2-plus points.
Okay.
And within this what's changed we saw obviously 2010 and into 2011 I guess beginning at 4Q '10 price/mix was pretty bad and now it's changed.
And I'm sure you always intend price/mix to be positive.
Is there something that's changed from a competitive dynamic or something that's changed in the market that's allowed you to make the progress that here you've obviously aspired to for a while? Yes Eric it -- we really have to look at the cycle that we have seen here.
It really began in the second half of 2010.
We came off of a first half where we saw some -- somewhat ardent [ph] stimulus-driven growth but good growth in the first half of the year.
And then seemingly in the second half the growth just stopped.
And there was a lot of competitive dynamics at every level that drove us into a period of really 12-month period of very negative pricing and I'm talking largely in the North American business.
At the same time coming into 2011 we and I believe most companies were negatively surprised about the material inflation that accelerated.
So you had basically negative demand significantly negative pricing and very negative increases in cost.
And that had a profound impact on margins across the board.
Like I said we took a decision for ourselves that we would -- given the innovation we had in our pipeline given the level of margins that were unsustainable that margin expansion was our number one priority and we announced price increases early last year in the case of North America and as we saw inflation ramp up even more we took a second price increase and announced the third for January of 2012.
We think those are the right decisions for the business.
We obviously have higher margins to continue to invest in bringing more innovation and value to consumers.
We're pleased with the progress.
We're satisfied with the innovation that we're gaining that our market share hasn't materially changed.
And that's just the course one I can't comment about others but that's the path that we're on.
And the second question the Latin American business was down 3 or 4% in the back half of '11 and your I think guidance is for the market to grow 2% to 5% in '12.
I'm curious about what you're seeing in the business or thinking about the business even the early feedback on stimulus that's just the volumes you're going to turn from contracting in the last 6 months to improving over the next 12.
It's Mike.
What we did see and similar to what we saw I would say in the last stimulus program was it actually drove about a 10% increase in the month of December and we're continuing to see that kind of growth as we turn the page into the new year.
So we do see that it's having a positive impact.
Again we don't know exactly how long that program is going to last but the fact of the matter is it has driven some benefit.
The other thing we're seeing is in markets outside of Brazil we're continuing to see very strong growth in those markets.
So we're feeling that this range that we've given is very appropriate.
The only other comment Eric I could think about Brazil and Latin America in general is that not only did we have the stimulus in other words the reduction in essence sales tax on certain products.
That has reignited the market but also the government has taken -- they had taken some anti-inflationary steps earlier in the year to constrain demand.
They've reversed those.
There's a lot of talk of lowering interest rates so there's balancing going on and we're seeing a general pick up in total.
At the same time and it's similar to your question I referred to on North America is we did take a strong stance last year throughout the year on pricing.
We have achieved that pricing.
We've also taken a strong stance on mix and we've really focused on stepping up the mix and we're having good results with that.
And we'll go next to the site of Sam Darkatsh with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First I want to rephrase an earlier question if I could.
Specific to bottom-out fridges post-October what did you see in wholesale industry prices and your specific market share? Sam it's Marc.
First of all let me reiterate what Jeff was saying.
Even with French Door [ph] [indiscernible] we are still in the preliminary phase of that entire process.
So the final determination of this one is not happening before April of this year.
So as long as the final are not out I would expect that situation to be somewhat unstable.
We saw in Q4 a slight increase of French Door prices but I think it's too early to draw any broader conclusion on this one.
Sam again I just add on this both of the actions that we've taken.
We are confident in the submission.
We are confident in the process and we're confident we'll have a positive outcome.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question I know people are beating to death the price/mix assumption.
I want to look at it in a different way if I could.
It doesn't look like you're assuming for any material degradation in demand from the higher prices as it relates to elasticity yet it seems as though demand over the past couple of years has been much more elastic to changes in price than perhaps anybody was looking for.
So is that -- is there a reason why you think demand would be still impervious to these prices? Yes Sam there is and again I would talk it's a little bit different around the world.
I would talk in the case of North America directly to answer your question yes we do think there's a very little relationship between change in prices and demand.
And the reason we discussed before is that that does not mean that there is not affordable products available to consumers.
And we generally don't vacate price points but we changed the value feature for price points and the consumer who's in the market ever 10 years doesn't really have a preconceived notion about what that value feature content is.
So as we've been through this the last 5 years candidly I don't think the price increases have any impact at all on demand.
In other parts of the world it's somewhat different.
Where you have emerging markets where you're having first time consumers coming in where there is an affordability threshold then we're a little bit more -- when we -- although we saw up the same need to raise prices we're also innovating for the masses if you will in trying to bring more let's say continue to expand the affordability range with the consumers.
So it's a little bit different around the world.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Last question if I might.
It appears as though assuming that the IPI gets extended into the summer time based on your BEFIEX guidance would that also assume then that the stimulus would be lasting that long as well? If the IPI actually does expire on March 31 how would that change your vision of Latin America and unit demands for the April 2012? Sam we've got the 2% to 5% is Brazil and the rest of Latin America.
The rest of Latin America already is at a higher run rate than that.
So that -- and that's about 1/3.
So the other 2/3 is Brazil.
And I would say that short-term with the IPI I think we're seeing the -- beginning -- December January we're seeing higher much rates than that.
So our balance 2% to 5% for the year I think depending on the broader general economic environment I think whether they extend it or continue it I think if they extended I would frankly expect higher demand.
If they discontinue it I think we're safe in the 2% to 5% but of course then we'll be able to monetize BEFIEX through IPI.
So that's kind of how I look at it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So it sound like October and November were pretty soft prior to the IPI.
I don't know how well advertised the IPI was ahead of time maybe that pushed some demand into December but it would seem as though the natural demand would be a little bit lower than the 2% to 5% based on what was happening prior to the IPI.
A couple things Sam.
I mean we did see a softness coming out in summer into the fall some negative comps but we're also comping up against a big increase the previous year.
But you're exactly right with one exception is that the IPI reduction was not well-communicated in advance.
It was -- I mean within 2 days the government met they decided on it and I think it was like the last day of November they communicated it and started December 1.
We were prepared to respond to that on December 1 but we saw immediate -- actually an immediate change in direction from demand with that.
We go next to the site of Josh Pollard with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Could you just walk through how much in additional price increases need to occur in order for you to achieve your 2%-plus overall price/mix guidance for '12? None.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair.
And when you look at the overall number for productivity and cost improvement please correct me if I'm wrong but I'm getting numbers that total about $650 million between the sort of big broad cost productivity program that you guys have run in $200 million and then the additional sort of "normal productivity" that you guys expect in excess of commodity inflation.
Can you walk us through just some of the bigger broader buckets through which that should come and then give us a cadence over which we should see those benefits for the year? Yes Josh.
This is Larry.
Let me talk a little bit about the benefits that we put in our guidance.
We did say through the cost and capacity reductions that that'd be about 1 point.
So if you just use this year's sales that will be $185 million.
We said we had $300 million to $350 million in headwinds but we would more than offset that with the -- and our total productivity in total would be 0.5 to 1 point.
So if you net those off together you're probably talking about $325 million net.
If you want to gross up the headwinds then you've got about $300 million to $350 million.
And then again Josh net the productivity is completely over and above separate from the restructuring benefits which we call out separately.
Research Division</strong> So if I do that math I get a negative of $300 million to $350 million from commodities but over and above that you guys expect to get a 0.5 point to 1 point so all in that looks like that should be a benefit on my quick math of about $465 million in addition to the cost and productivity of $200 million.
Am I thinking about that right? Yes.
Again when we talk about productivity it's net productivity meaning that we have to generate enough productivity to offset all inflation which includes raw material.
It includes inflation in emerging markets salary et cetera et cetera.
So to net out 1 point and 1 point is roughly $200 million to net out 1 point with $300 million to $350 million in inflation just on those 2 factors alone we have to do $500 million to $550 million in gross productivity and of course we have other inflation.
So our gross productivity is in the $800 million to $1 billion range.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then if you could just update us on the cadence for margins for 2012.
You guys made some comments about continued improvement as you get through the year.
I wanted to see if you meant by those comments that you expect margins to go up sequentially on 1Q and then if you could talk about how you'd expect those to progress throughout the remainder of the year.
Let me talk in general.
I would say we would expect margins to improve sequentially throughout the year and I'm talking about the ongoing business operations okay? So obviously we'll have restructuring expense but if you look in BEFIEX but if you x those out we would expect margin improvement throughout the year.
Historically we've had -- we do have seasonality in our business Josh historically 45% 55% from a volume basis.
Due to carryover our pricing will be more weighted to the first half of the year than the back.
Our history if you look at our history productivity tends to be more back-end weighted and the restructuring benefits I would say would be more 40-60 but more back-end weighted.
And as we mentioned we're assuming that the extension of the IPI tax holiday occurs so the BEFIEX will be more back-end weighted.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just plug a last one in there.
Pension expectations into the future you guys sort of called that out as not a part of the ongoing expense but for how long should we expect you guys to be in that $200 million to $300 million range on cash outflows for pension.
I think it's a good question and obviously interest rates depend a lot on what we will pay out in any given year and we're at historically low interest rates.
So if rates were to stay this way for the next 4 years we'll pay probably around $200 million on average but obviously if rates go up that number changes.
We'll go next to the side of David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
So I just want to follow up on a couple of previous questions.
There is no midyear price hike built into your guidance.
David we don't talk about any future pricing.
With respect to the guidance Jeff is there...
No.
My comments was that I think Josh asked the question and my comment was based on the carryover from 2011 and what we've already announced and implemented that -- it's sufficient to do the 2-plus we talked about.
Now regarding future price increases that's a different discussion and it's something we don't comment about.
Okay.
Secondly on the BEFIEX credits the assumption right now is that the program will conclude March 31.
I think you'd indicated -- I just want to make sure I got is correct but if it were to extend for the 9 months as it did in 2009 that there'd be an additional $115 million 1-1-5? Yes.
David this is Larry.
A couple of things.
We're assuming -- we're modeling this year's tax holiday program consistent with what 2009 was which ran for 9 months.
So in our guidance we're assuming that carries over in the 9 months and if you look at 2009 for the entire year there was about $69 million of BEFIEX tax credits recognized.
So we're being very smoothly between 60 and 80.
David I think if it does conclude as currently prescribed on March 31 and there's no other changes then we'd have initial up to $115 million more BEFIEX than what we were.
Thanks for that correction.
So if I do the math correctly using a 29% tax rate that's additional $1 per share of earnings.
Would that take your guidance then up to $7.50 to $8? Again David if in fact the IPI tax holiday is not extended and we will provide you with additional guidance on BEFIEX.
The tax rate you should use would be more of a statutory rate in Brazil which should be about 34%.
Okay.
So it's approximately $1 a share.
Would that be taking your guidance up by approximately...
Let's be clear.
The $6.50 to $7 x's out BEFIEX.
Okay.
How much of the cost savings of the $200 million actually go to the bottom line? All of it.
And then European pricing Marc -- thanks very much for the specifics on your ASP lift in North America can you give us a similar assessment for your European pricing? Yes David it's Mike.
We took an amount to price increase and went out in pricing and it was effective October 1.
What we've seen sequentially we have begun to realize some of that pricing had effect in the fourth quarter.
It was up about 2 points from the third quarter.
What we're expecting is to see continued if you will benefits from this pricing as we move forward into 2012.
So we're already beginning to see that as we come into January but we did see some sequential improvement and we're expecting that to continue.
Free cash flow guidance for 2012 what's you're working cap delta? We ended at 5.1% we've got of cash flow David expect some improvement in cash flow but not to the extent we saw this year.
And for that final question we'll go to the site of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First on the -- I'm sorry to get back to the price/mix but I just wanted to make sure I understood for 2012.
You said before Jeff it assumes no incremental pricing but I was just curious how much of the information how much of the expectation rather is from 2011 initiatives versus what you've begun to and certainly you said you've already been able to fully realize a bit what was from the portion from what you've already done in '11 versus what you put into effect in 2012.
Yes Mike this is Larry.
We have about a little over 1 point carryover.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question on the European margins.
It's a number that -- and obviously a lot of turnover in the region itself.
But the European margin line certainly has moved around a lot this year.
Just trying to get a sense of with the material amounts of benefits from the cost reduction program how much of that would be in Europe and how should we think about a European margin in 2012? Michael this is Mike.
What we did in the fourth quarter as we talked about as we took production down significantly that had a major impact.
What we're expecting as we have going into 2012 is we're expecting to see improvement coming from price/mix that we just talked about.
We're expecting to see improvement from the restructuring which we're already beginning to realize in the first quarter and we're expecting to see improvement from normal productivity initiatives.
So I would expect us to see a fairly significant over the course of the year improvement and the European operating margins.
And I think Michael you asked about restructuring -- about a quarter of that benefit is within Europe.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one more if I could.
Understand [indiscernible] in terms of the lower level of productivity in -- I'm sorry or production levels which I assumed you also kind of translated into productivity I was just trying to get a sense of how that negatively impacted North America and European margins in the fourth quarter and if the rebound in the productivity levels is something that you're capturing in the net productivity gain of 0.5 point to 1 point that you're expecting in 2012.
Michael again I think the Q4 impact you're talking excess of 1 point due to do the productivity cost take on actually that will be a good guidance for us going into next year.
Well thanks everyone.
Thank you for joining us then.
We look forward to talking to you next time.
And this concludes today's program.
Have a great day you may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to Whirlpool Corporation's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Senior Director of Investor Relations Joe Lovechio.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Whirlpool Corporation First Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Joining me today are Jeff Fettig our Chairman and CEO; Mike Todman President of Whirlpool International; Marc Bitzer President of Whirlpool North America; and Larry Venturelli our Chief Financial Officer.
Our remarks today track with the presentation available on the Investors section of our website at whirlpoolcorp.com.
Before you begin let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements to assist you in understanding Whirlpool Corporation's future expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially from these statements due to many factors discussed in our latest 10-K and 10-Q as well as in the Appendix of this presentation.
Turning to Slide 3.
We want to remind you that today's presentation includes non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures are important indicators of our operations as they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to results from our ongoing business operations.
We also think that the adjusted measures will provide you with a better baseline for analyzing trends in our ongoing business operation.
Listeners are directed to the Appendix section of our presentation beginning on Slide 36 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP items to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
With that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Well good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on the call today.
As you saw earlier this morning we released our first quarter financial results.
Overall we had a very strong start to the year as we benefited from our margin expansion efforts and our continued innovation investment.
Our previously announced and implemented cost-based price actions along with our cost-reduction initiatives have put us on track to deliver our full year 2012 guidance.
We have particularly strong operating performance in our North America and Latin America regions.
In fact in North America ongoing operating business profits tripled year-over-year despite a 10% industry unit decline in demand.
I think the strength of our global brand portfolio is evident as we continue to see strong consumer preference for our innovative new product launches which overall is driving very positive mix in many of our key markets.
And despite the weaker-than-expected demand our working capital in the first quarter is at a record low driven largely by lower inventory levels.
As a reminder during our last call we clearly defined what we call our ongoing business operational performance which excludes unusual items restructuring expense and tax credits.
You can see our results for the quarter on Slide 6.
Sales were relatively flat despite weaker appliance demand unfavorable currency and the effects of a lower BEFIEX monetization.
Our diluted earnings per share from ongoing business operations improved to $1.41 a share compared to $0.64 a year ago with our operating earnings more than double.
And we saw year-over-year improvements in our free cash flow from business operations which we'll discuss in detail later.
Turning to Slide 7.
You'll see a summary of our current demand outlook for the year.
Overall our outlook remains unchanged as we continue to expect flat to slightly positive demand growth around the world for the year.
However in different parts of the world we've seen a slower start to the year but overall globally we see the same demand levels as we originally forecasted.
In North America we're currently seeing demand trending towards the lower end of our previous flat to plus 3% range.
In Latin America in part due to a continuous -- continuation of the Brazilian tax holiday program combined with strong underlying economic fundamentals both in Brazil and other Latin American countries after a very good first quarter we see demand at the high end of our plus 2% to plus 5% range for the region for the year.
In Europe we continue to forecast an industry decline ranging from minus 2% to minus 5% for the full year as consumer confidence in the Eurozone remains weak.
And finally in Asia we expect our full year demand in Asia to be at the lower end of our previously stated plus 2% to plus 4% after a relatively weak demand level in Q1.
I'll now turn to Slide 8 which shows our key business drivers for the year and how they are tracking versus our previous guidance.
As I mentioned overall we continue to benefit from the already announced global cost-based price increases.
As we progress through the year we will comp against the 2011 global price increases so we do expect price/mix to continue to be a positive driver of margin expansion throughout the year but at a lesser rate than we saw in the first quarter.
Our restructuring costs and capacity initiatives are on track and these benefits will ramp up and accelerate throughout the year in 2012.
In addition we will continue to bring the cadence of strong innovation which will contribute to the overall improvement in our revenue growth our mix and overall operating profit.
And finally we estimate raw material inflation to be at the higher end of our $300 million to $350 million range but we still expect to more than offset all this inflation through strong productivity benefits which will ramp up in the second half of the year.
So overall we're pleased with the very good start in the first quarter.
We are -- as we look out through the rest of the year we believe we are on track to deliver our EPS and free cash flow guidance for the year.
At this point in time I'll turn it over to Marc Bitzer for an update on our North America operations.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Let me start by giving my perspective on North America's performance for the quarter.
As shown on Slide 10 overall U.S.
industry unit shipments decreased 10% during the quarter.
Despite a very weak industry demand our ongoing business operations margin grew to 6.7% during the quarter up from the 2.3% in the prior year.
This is largely the result of our previously announced and fully implemented cost-based price increases and an overall improved product price/mix.
It is important to note that our market share is up sequentially which clearly speaks to the success of our innovation in the marketplace and our flawless execution of the price increases.
Raw materials continued to be a headwind for us and we have announced an additional cost-based price increase effective July 1.
In addition our cost and capacity-reduction initiatives are on track for the region.
Turning to Slide 11.
Net sales of $2.2 billion decreased 1% from last year driven by an overall unit volume decline.
We saw our North America unit shipments down 7% in the first quarter which is slightly ahead of the U.S.
industry decline of 10%.
Operating profit reached $151 million versus the $59 million in the previous year.
Ongoing business operating profit was also $151 million as compared to $52 million in 2011 which means we nearly tripled our operating margin.
Turning to Slide 12.
You can see just a few examples of our innovative cooking product launches.
You also see a picture of our new Cleveland Tennessee manufacturing facility.
The facility officially opened early this month and includes a state-of-the-art production facility and distribution center and will be the largest premium cooking plant in the world.
As demonstrated by our improving market share despite our cost-based price increases it is clear that our innovation is a competitive advantage and key to our success in the marketplace.
We have a strong cadence of new product innovation planned throughout the year.
I want to highlight the progress we've made against our business priorities for North America during the quarter as you can see on Slide 13.
As mentioned before we have successfully implemented our cost-based price increases but the cost and capacity reduction initiatives as well as our ongoing productivity programs will ramp up during the second half of the year and are on track to generate the expected benefits.
We were also able to leverage our strong product innovation during the quarter realizing not only sequential margin improvements but sequential share gains.
Now before I turn it back over to Mike I want to take a moment to address the recent ITC decision related to our bottom-mount refrigerator antidumping petition.
We know the fact clearly demonstrated that bottom-mount refrigerators from South Korea and Mexico were being dumped in the United States market.
And in March the Department of Commerce confirmed that in fact dumping has occurred and issued a final antidumping and countervailing duty determination assigning both antidumping and countervailing duty margins.
Obviously we are extremely disappointed with the ITC decision and we will explore every option including appeal to resolve the apparent disconnect between Commerce's final determination that dumping is occurring and the final ITC determination that these dump imports did not cause injury to the U.S.
industry and their workers.
In addition and this is very important going forward we will continue to monitor foreign producer behavior in the marketplace.
If we see a reversion to the dumping activities that prevailed prior to 2012 we will take all appropriate legal actions.
It's very important to know that this decision does not influence the actions that we took last December when we filed antidumping and countervailing duty petitions for large residential clothes washers from South Korea and Mexico.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Mike for his review of our international operations.
Thanks Mark.
You'll find an overview of our international business performance on Slide 15.
We had solid performance in our Latin American region both within and outside of Brazil.
The region reported sales of $1.3 billion up 3% from the prior year period with appliance unit shipments up 2%.
Excluding the impact from currency sales increased 7%.
We saw improved price/mix across the region.
There was strong demand for T3 products which include washing machines refrigerators and ranges.
While it was previously discussed we elected to move away from lower-end unprofitable microwave ovens and air conditioners.
Strong sales and product price/mix gains were partially offset by higher material costs and lower monetization of Brazilian BEFIEX tax credits.
As we discussed on the last call the Brazilian government declared an appliance sales tax holiday in December.
The program originally set to expire on March 31 was extended for an additional 90 days through June 30 2012 as expected.
Irrespective however of the stimulus program we continue to be very positive about the prospects for our Brazil and Latin American international business.
Europe remained challenging during the quarter with continued weak consumer demand across the Eurozone.
Our cost-based price increases and cost-reduction initiatives are expected to progressively yield margin improvement sequentially throughout the year.
In Asia Q1 industry demand in India and China was lower than expected.
China's economy grew at its weakest pace in nearly 3 years in the first quarter of 2012 and inflation in India continued to dampen demand.
However we continue to expect recovery throughout the year as we comp against easier numbers.
If you turn to Slide 16 you'll see our Latin America first quarter results.
Operating profit for the quarter totaled $121 million compared to $174 million in the prior year.
Favorable product price/mix was offset by lower monetization of tax credit unfavorable currency and higher material costs.
On an adjusted basis excluding Brazilian tax credits operating profit for the quarter totaled $114 million compared to $108 million in the prior year period.
Turning to Slide 17.
In the first quarter our Europe Middle East and Africa sales decreased 8% year-over-year to $688 million with unit shipments down 4% compared to the prior year period.
Excluding the impact of currency sales decreased approximately 3%.
Operating profit of $5 million improved sequentially from the $32 million fourth quarter loss but was down from last year -- prior year of $25 million.
Our first quarter results in the Asia region are shown on Slide 18.
Net sales decreased 3% during the quarter to $202 million down from $208 million in the prior year period with unit shipments increasing 1%.
Excluding the impact of currency sales increased approximately 2%.
The region's operating profit was $9 million for the quarter compared to $11 million in the prior year.
Overall favorable product price/mix and volume growth was more than offset by unfavorable currency and material costs.
Turning to Slide 19.
You can see just a few examples of our international product launches during the quarter.
In addition to the products you see here our Bauknecht brand expanded into Hong Kong allowing us to reach consumers in super premium segment in that growing market.
And in Latin America we've launched the region's first premium front-load laundry pair leveraging our new global laundry platform for Brastemp brand consumers.
And in India starting in March we are launching more than 150 new products during the year across 6 appliance categories the largest launch in the region's history.
The products deliver innovation designs and features that consumers want and at price points that make the products accessible to every consumer segment.
In China as you will see on Slide 20 we established a strategic alliance with the retailer Suning expanding our ability to large numbers of consumers through a respected trade channel.
As part of the strategic alliance we have preferential access to Suning's national distribution network of 1 700 retail outlets throughout China and preferential access to fast-growing market segments into China's smaller but faster-growing cities.
This relationship demonstrates our strong commitment to the China market.
Suning's distribution network as well as its excellent reputation as a leading electrical appliance retailer in China make it the ideal choice for this partnership which is a key enabler to our China growth strategy to become the leading international appliance brand in China and grow our domestic sales to $1 billion over the next several years.
Turning to Slide 21.
You'll see the progress our international business made towards our operating priorities.
While demand remains soft in some markets we are beginning to see signs of growth returning for our business in emerging markets.
Our margin expansion efforts are on track through improved price mix productivity and realizing the committed restructuring benefits.
And lastly we are supporting our business with a strong year of innovation which is driving the growth and price/mix improvements we are seeing across the company.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Larry Venturelli for his financial review.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
First let me start by putting into context our first quarter performance relative to full year guidance.
During our last call as shown on Slide 23 we guided to annual GAAP EPS of $5 to $5.50 per share and ongoing business operations EPS of $6.50 to $7.
Free cash flow guidance was $100 million to $150 million with our ongoing business cash flow of $950 million to $1 billion.
Our first quarter results are well on plan to deliver annual guidance which we are reconfirming this morning.
You may recall that guidance reflected essentially flat industry growth for the year and was based on margin expansion driven from price and mix improvement; restructuring benefits from our costs and capacity reduction programs; ongoing productivity which we expect during the second half of this year; the loss of material cost headwinds; and finally we are increasing our marketing investment to support a significant new product innovation we're introducing this year.
As we discussed on our last call we expect annual ongoing business operating profit margin to be between 5.5% to 6%.
On Slide 24 you'll note that our ongoing business operating profit margin essentially doubled from 2.7% in Q4 to 5.3% in Q1 essentially at the bottom of our full year range.
We are very pleased with our margin progression and remain confident in our guidance for the year.
On Slide 25 you'll note that for the quarter GAAP EPS was $1.17 per share compared to $2.17 last year.
It's very important to note that last year included $1.54 per share for BEFIEX tax credits and the energy tax credit program which was not extended this year.
Our 2012 first quarter results reflect only $0.08 per share from the BEFIEX tax credits.
Adjusting for restructuring expense and the previously mentioned tax credits our ongoing business operations delivered $1.41 per share more than doubling from the $0.64 last year.
Slide 26 shows the drivers of our year-over-year ongoing business operations improvement which was entirely driven by margin expansion.
Price/mix contributed approximately 4 points to our margin expansion during the quarter.
We expect strong year-over-year price mix for the first half of the year and will begin to comp against last year's price increases during future quarters.
Our cost and capacity reduction program is on track and contributed proximately 1 point to margin improvement.
We remain confident in achieving the $200 million or 1 point of margin improvement this year as these benefits continue to build throughout the year.
And additionally we expect 1 point of margin improvement from this program in 2013.
We did generate approximately 0.5 point of margin improvement from normal productivity.
Our productivity consistent with our project pipeline will build throughout the year and we expect to more than offset material headwinds during the second half of this year.
Material headwinds negatively impacted margins by approximately 2.5 points.
And as Jeff mentioned we currently estimate headwinds to hit the higher end of our previous 3 to 3.5 -- $350 million range.
In summary delivering a 5.3% ongoing business operations margin during the first quarter which is our lowest volume quarter of the year puts us well on track to achieving our annual guidance of 5.5 points to 6 points.
I wanted to briefly discuss 3 items.
First our effective tax rate was 27% which was consistent with our annual guidance of 26% to 29%.
And It's important to note that last year we benefited from $54 million of energy tax credits.
Secondly restructuring expense was $34 million up significantly from last year.
Slide 29 illustrates that we continue to expect the total expense of our restructuring program to be approximately $500 million through 2013.
And as I previously mentioned we are own track to deliver the $200 million in benefits in 2012 with an additional $200 million of benefits in 2013.
Thirdly BEFIEX tax credits included in our GAAP results was $7 million compared to $66 million last year.
The biggest driver of this decrease was a tax break program initiated by the Brazilian government which reduces the amount of BEFIEX credit we are able to monetize.
The program which started December 1 2011 was extended an additional 3 months through June 30 2012.
During our last call we told you that our 2012 guidance includes $60 million to $80 million of BEFIEX credits compared to 260 million -- $266 million recognized in 2011.
We modeled our 2012 guidance similar to the government's previous program which was extended to 9 months.
Should the current 7-month program not be extended to 9 months we would be able to monetize additional credits of approximately $45 million.
And just as a general reminder both restructuring expense and BEFIEX credits are excluded from our ongoing business operation results and guidance along with last year's energy tax credits and other one-time items.
Moving to our free cash flow results on Slide 30.
As expected we reported a free cash flow use of $515 million for the quarter compared to a use of $336 million last year.
These results include the final installment of $275 million related to the Brazilian collection dispute.
In comparison to last year we also had higher pension contributions higher restructuring cash outlays and significantly lower monetization of BEFIEX tax credits.
Slide 31 depicts the underlying cash flow through our operations after taking to account these short-term cash requirements.
As you can see we are driving improvements in our cash flow from ongoing business operations as we largely put our legacy legal liabilities behind us this year.
Overall working capital is at a first quarter record low driven largely by lower inventory levels.
On Slide 32 you'll see that our 2012 cash priorities remain funding the business including capital expenditures and pension contributions; dividends; as I've previously mentioned funding the remaining legacy legal liabilities which will largely be behind us after this year; and debt repayment.
Now I'll turn it back over to Jeff.
Well let me sum up our comments today.
As you heard we are on pace  to deliver our earnings and cash flow guidance for the year.
Even as we continue to expect flat to slight demand improvement we are executing very well against all of our key initiatives and remain confident in our ability to meet our margin expansion targets.
Overall we delivered a very strong first quarter and we expect the full year 2012 to be a very strong year of operating profit performance improvement.
Long term we remain very confident in the opportunities that we see to grow the business as we've outlined in Slide 35.
In shorter term we will continue to rapidly adjust our overall business to adapt to changes that continue to take place in the overall global marketplace.
So with that I'll conclude our formal remarks.
And at this point in time I'd like to open it up and take any questions that any of you may have.
[Operator Instructions] With that we'll take our first question from the side of Eric Bosshard.
Curious about North America specifically.
You showed good progress with price and units obviously were softer I think softer than what you would have expected.
As you look through the balance of the year how are you seeing retailers respond to how things played out in 1Q and if you think this is a sustainable situation? Eric it's Marc.
Let me try to answer your question put it into 2 different buckets: one is the units the other is the pricing as you mentioned.
First of all unit.
As we reported units were down on industry shipments 10% which is slightly worse than we expected.
At the same time you got to also know that during the quarter we saw quite a bit of trade inventory reduction which is as you know difficult to peg but I would peg it at around 3%.
So through sell-through about probably minus 7%.
And in addition if you compare to previous year quarter there was industry inventory build.
So you've got to take that into account.
With that in mind we still forecast the full year industry shipments to be roughly flat which is at the low end of our previous guidance.
So that's the unit side.
On the pricing our pricing stuck.
But what is more important even is the quality of our pricing because it was not just like-for-like we also had a very strong mix in our Q1 performance and we see that continuing.
So we remain in fact very confident at our full year which is in line with our previous guidance.
I guess to refine the question a little bit how are the retailers looking at pricing and promotion? With sell-through down 7% in the first quarter how are they thinking about the balance between unit sell-through and profitability? And Eric and as you know most major retailers they report their numbers in a month from now.
It's a good thing but I would argue that most retailers see similar benefit as we have.
You can sustain a softer unit environment if your price realization for the entire industry value chain is healthier.
But it's too early to say that.
And at the end of the day we've got to waive off the retailers' report.
Yes.
Eric this is Jeff.
I would add just maybe to Marc's comments is this is really as we talked about particularly at the second half of last year this is a replacement market.
As we look through the data and see the type of purchases it's not a discretionary market due to where consumer confidence is now.
If you look at the retailers that have reported over -- at this point the smaller retailers the ones that are doing well are expanding their margins.
They're benefiting from -- they understand that it's a replacement market.
They're benefiting from margin improvement and they're getting comp store sales increases because of those higher revenues.
And that's something that I guess as you think about it being a fundamental replacement market is easy for them to understand.
I guess following on to that you commented that you thought price/mix would be the most favorable in 1Q and would ease a little bit 2Q to 4Q.
It sounded like that was a function of comparisons.
But should we be thinking that there's any change or erosion in what took place in the 1Q on the price and promotional change? Help us understand a little bit better if you would.
Yes Eric.
No that is not the case.
What  we talked about the plus -- 4-plus points of price/mix in Q1 year-over-year it's based on the comparison.
As you perhaps recall we began -- it varied per market but we started -- we had a very significant price increase in North America I think April 1 of last year.
So the issue -- it is not an erosion of current pricing or mix it is a comparison of against the pricing we took last year.
Eric it's Marc Bitzer.
In addition to this one first of all the 4% that Jeff referred to is globally.
North America was north of that number.
The other thing is we have announced a price increase July 1 so that is already out there in the market and we are executing that.
We'll move next to the side of David MacGregor.
I guess just on the price increases if we could pick up from where you just left off Marc.
What percentage of your current North American revenues will be impacted by that? My understanding is this is going to be a more selective kind of a price increase.
I'm just trying to get a sense of breadth here.
David it's Marc Bitzer.
We don't communicate the details.
I mean of course our trade firms make up the price list and that is well out the market.
I can only characterize in general terms it's not in the same magnitude as the April last year one but it's -- we're serious about this one and we have real mature cost increases and we'll reflect them in our cost-based price increases.
And to what extent have all your competitors gone along with this so far? David honestly I can't comment on -- you probably need to ask -- sorry.
And I know it's pretty difficult to -- doing business in Europe right now but presumably you've got raw materials cost inflation there as well.
So how do you go about securing a price increase in Europe if in fact that's possible right now? Well David as you know -- this is Mike Todman.
We announced price increases in Europe and we're in the process of executing them.
We actually did see some positive price mix in the first quarter.
We expect for that to progressively get better as we go throughout the year.
And then we're just being -- we're sticking to and committed to the increases that we've announced.
We'll move next to the side of Michael Rehaut.
Research Division</strong> First just going back to better understanding pricing relating to the raw materials.
Conceptually should we be thinking that the price increase announced for July 1 to roughly offset the impact of the higher raw materials is that a good way to think about it and maybe not just in North America but to the extent that you're trying to do this on -- continue to push price on a global basis? Mike it's Marc.
Let me just comment on North America.
The answer is yes.
So July 1 is conceptually reflecting the real material cost increases we have as well as the last 4 ones also reflected a long-term trend of material cost increases.
Michael the more micro question globally is absolutely we do expect to offset raw material increases in part via price and the other part productivity not only in North America but around the world.
We have already announced in -- either implemented or have announced in other markets in Latin America and India and other places price increases also where we have high inflation.
When you have a high inflation environment there's really not any other options other than to do that.
Yes Michael this is Larry.
Just for reference if you go back to the last 3 years including 2012 we're absorbing close to $1 billion of higher material cost inflation so we obviously are taking up pricing to recover that.
Research Division</strong> Great I appreciate that.
And just as a follow-up thinking about margins on a longer-term basis kind of a two-parter.
One can you just remind us how you are thinking about incremental operating margins company-wide for incremental sales? What is that on an incremental margin basis -- operating margin basis? And if you can also longer term kind of walk us through from a timing perspective the 8% consolidated operating margin goal that you've laid out in the past.
I believe on your Analyst Day a year ago correct me if I'm wrong I think you were thinking that that could be achievable by 2015 was it? And if there's just any update on how you're thinking about that playing out.
Yes Michael this is Jeff let me take the last part first.
Actually the day we had talked back to the -- actually fall of 2010 when we had the Investor Day we outlined our expectations to drive the business to at least 8% plus operating profit by 2014.
And as I said last fall and in February our expectations haven't changed.
Clearly last year was a setback given the environment.
But as we announced last October we took very strong actions with our #1 priority being margin expansions.
So this year based on what we gave in the guidance and what we've outlined in our plans we expect to be at 5.5% to 6% operating profit this year.
We also as a reminder will have next year approximately $200 million which is roughly a full point restructuring benefit in addition to what we get there.
And we will continue investing in innovation.
We will continue to do the things that we need to do to drive mix and expand margins.
But we reiterate it was our expectations that we'd get to the 8% plus by 2014.
Now shorter term your question I'll turn it over to Larry.
Yes.
And just to add to Jeff said Michael in that guidance we're not assuming a huge improvement in demand in the global industry when Jeff talks about that margin.
And we believe that we have the visibility to get there based on the things that we can control.
The question you asked on incremental margin if you look at our business and the costs that we've taken out over the last several years our cost of goods sold is highly variable in nature today.
And if you look at our SG&amp;A it's I would say split between variable and fixed so that should help you with your incremental question.
We'll move next to the side of Ken Zener.
Research Division</strong> It's too bad the ITC ruling doesn't sync with any logical extension of what dumping damage means.
And I'm interested if you guys have a better understanding of what damage to an industry means.
But with the U.S.
volume down as much as it is it does stand in contrast to consumer recovery we're seeing in some other durable items housing nascent [ph] cars.
Can you comment on the apparent disconnect and if in your opinion how it might be related to price? I know you talked about the absence of elasticity but it does seem surprising that the volume is not clicking up at all.
Kenneth it's Marc Bitzer.
Let me just try to answer that.
First of all on the question as to why it's more -- of more instant [ph] recovering.
I would argue without being too much [indiscernible] the rational factors when you look at housing affordability mortgage rates housing costs would speak in favor of a faster recovery of the demand what stands in the way is still consumer confidence which is still lagging behind.
We do not expect a major recovery of consumer confidence until the end of the year.
And that will be the center point in terms of when see the industry improving.
So I think it's already in the back of consumer confidence not necessarily the rational factors.
They would clearly speak in favor of a faster recovery.
The second point of your question pricing versus demand.
As Jeff mentioned before we're basing our intention in all replacement markets which historically has been and is now also confirmed is not elastic to pricing.
It's just not -- I mean if you're a replacement consumer you buy and that is not necessarily driven by if there's a 10% discount or not.
The only thing I'd add Ken is that again on the pricing question I mean if you look at our average pricing all of those are still below where they were 3 years ago.
So in a time where we had tremendous inflation and to reinforce Marc's point is the business that we are seeing is upgrading the mix.
So again I stick by what we said.
I don't think pricing has had any impact on consumer demand in this market.
On the first comment of the ITC Marc really clearly laid out our position.
I'd only reinforce 2 points.
One is the Department of Commerce conclusively determined there is dumping taking place in this marketplace from those markets at a large magnitude particularly for our type of industry.
The ITC rule was determined whether that was cause of material damages to the industry and in this case Whirlpool.
And it is unexplainable to us how that conclusion could have been reached and -- but we will not have the public opinion for probably another several weeks anyway.
So until we see that there's really nothing more we can say about it.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
When you guys get that public opinion obviously I hope you continue to post it to your Investor Relation page.
The ITC it's -- you can get things from there but it's complicated.
And is there any just broad comments you could make? Because to us it's unexplainable.
However despite your very rational decisions you have behavior that might undermine your rational decisions.
I mean if there's any color you have to add I think that would be useful.
And has there been any Brazilian land development by competitors? I'm sorry what was the last? Research Division</strong> Brazilian land development by your competitors.
Yes we can't give a lot of color right now on this other than a couple of points.
One I think anybody who's followed -- follows trade is as shocked as we were about this decision.
I think clearly the people who did the work and came to the conclusion there is dumping it was crystal clear.
So in the end you have a group of folks who have their discussions and deliberations.
And that's where they came out and I cannot add any color to that.
I can only reiterate Marc's point that we don't accept that outcome based on what we know.
And that we were going to continue every avenue possible on all fronts to ensure that illegal dumping in the United States that impacts American investment and jobs is not acceptable in this global trade -- under global trade law.
So Larry you want to talk? And I think you asked questions on developments of new manufacturing in Brazil from competitive perspective.
And then there's -- from what we've seen so far no.
There has been no new developments from -- and I think you're referring to Koreans.
We'll go next to this line of Sam Darkatsh.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First off I thought Mike in your prepared remarks you mentioned that you were walking away from microwave and air conditioning units in Latin America.
If true could you help quantify the impact of that in the quarter on your units? And then also help reconcile -- the guidance for the year for Latin America units does that include or exclude the walk-away business.
If you could help put some color around that.
Yes yes I will Sam.
First of all we haven't completely walked away.
What we have done is on the lower-end lower profitable segments of those categories particularly microwaves air conditioners vacuum cleaners we've just elected not to sell.
It actually if you look at total units had upwards of 6 points if you will on the total unit sales.
So it was fairly significant but it was a decision that we think makes a lot of sense.
And as we look at our guidance for the marketplace in total we have included a total T9 as we call it in Latin America view.
So it includes microwaves it includes some air conditioners.
It doesn't include some of the other items that we sell.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So we should expect then inferring from your words then that the industry growth closer to the high end of the range less whatever the impact would be in this case 6 points for Whirlpool units for the year is that how to look at that? No actually let me maybe give you some more specific.
If you look at T3 units in the first quarter they were up around 20% in the industry.
We were up well over that in T3.
So if you expand it to the other ones the industry was up about 11%.
And what we said is right now we've seen this stimulus if you will extended the tax holiday through the second quarter.
And so that's the only visibility that we have.
So we're just calling the industry now up to the high end of our range 5% and it includes everything okay? Now the T3 we expect to continue to be higher than that 5%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But the 2% to 5% is the T9? That's correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question and I'll defer to others.
There's been some chatter in the marketplace about Daewoo specifically coming up for bid and perhaps your potential interest in it.
I understand that there's probably some sensitivities around talking about that specifically.
But Jeff could you talk about your appetite for acquisitions and where it might make sense going forward? Yes Sam.
First of all we don't comment on rumors.
As Larry laid out our priority for the year in terms of our investments M&amp;A was not on the priority list.
And we're very focused on -- we have some great investments in innovation that we're getting we expect to get great returns on.
Funding the business funding the dividend and pension paying off legal liabilities those are our priorities for this year.
And we have time for one last question.
For that we'll go to the line of Josh Pollard.
Research Division</strong> There was no change in your guidance post pending what seems like a pretty material piece of business with Suning in China.
Is this a relationship that doesn't go into place until 2013? Or do you need to build facility to begin a material ramp? I'm just trying to understand why that isn't having more of an impact on your numbers? Yes Josh.
First of all in terms of the guidance we're tracking very well through the first quarter after a very strong start.
It's April and so there was no -- we just felt confident in reinforcing the guidance that we have.
The Suning relationship has been built over a very long period of time and it is actually driving significant revenue growth off of a very small base in China.
So I don't expect -- it will have a material impact on our China business but that not -- has not yet grown to a size where that's having a material impact on the total Whirlpool business.
Research Division</strong> So in other words you guys already have a relationship with Suning.
You...
Well absolutely.
Research Division</strong> You went to preferential status.
Does that increase your what you would expect to sell to them by 20% 50% double it? At least double.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's a double over 5 years? Or is that a double as soon as...
Well based on where we are now this year or this year or next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
But it's not very significant to your overall business? Not yet but it will be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when I think about for promotions we're moving a little closer towards the holidays.
I wanted to understand how much you budgeted for promotions last year how that compares to this year and sort of on a quarterly basis how you guys think about spending those figures.
Josh it's Marc Bitzer.
As you know we don't give specifics on promotion guidelines several quarters out.
I mean the only comment I want to make we have said as a key priority price margin realization is very key.
And we will stick within these guidelines but we will never give specific guidelines on promotion spend per quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If that's the case can I sneak one more in? Sure Josh.
Research Division</strong> I want to follow up on the previous question about your volume of 2% in Latin America.
20% was the industry on T3 you guys are much higher than that.
T9 was up only 11%.
I'm trying to understand the real impact on your business.
Are you saying if you would have had all your normal volumes your volumes would have been up 8%? Yes.
Josh again the T3 refrigerators washers and cooking products that is the predominant revenue source in our business.
But over the last several years microwaves and air con as far as the T9 have grown very largely.
But in short it was a very cool season so the air con business was down dramatically.
And as Marc reiterated and Mike our -- we had -- our priority was to -- is to expand margins so we sold a much much better mix and we didn't sell a lot of units that were low.
So I mean the fact of the matter is I mean the simple answer to your question is on the T3 which is the core part of our business we were up substantial.
The market was up 20%.
We were up more than that.
So the rest of this stuff was basically profitless units that weren't sold.
So with that we're going to conclude here.
But again I would just end again we're very pleased with the progress we've made thus far in the year.
There are some moving parts but we feel like the actions we've put in place are going to allow us to deliver a very strong year of operating performance.
So thank you for joining us today.
We'll look forward to talking to you next time.
And this conclude today's program.
Have a great day.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to Whirlpool Corporation's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Senior Director of Investor Relations Joe Lovechio.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Whirlpool Corporation Second Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Joining me today are Jeff Fettig our Chairman and CEO; Mike Todman President of Whirlpool International; Marc Bitzer President of Whirlpool North America; and Larry Venturelli our Chief Financial Officer.
Our remarks today track with the presentation available on the Investors section of our website at whirlpoolcorp.com.
Before we begin let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements to assist you in understanding Whirlpool Corporation's future expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially from these statements due to many factors discussed in our latest 8-K 10-K and 10-Q as well as in the Appendix of this presentation.
Turning to Slide 3.
We want to remind you that today's presentation includes non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures are important indicators of our operations as they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to results from our ongoing business operations.
We also think that the adjusted measures will provide you with a better baseline for analyzing trends in our ongoing business operation.
Listeners are directed to the Appendix section of our presentation beginning on Slide 34 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP items to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
With that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Well good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
As you saw in our press release from earlier today we delivered a strong improvement in our Q2 operating results.
We continue to deliver on the commitments that we outlined at the beginning of the year and we're reaffirming our full year guidance.
Overall I believe we executed well during the quarter and the first half of the year and our margin expansion initiatives remain on track.
In total these actions fully offset weaker than expected demand unfavorable currency and material inflation during the quarter.
Our North America and Latin America businesses continue to perform extremely well.
In North America our ongoing business operating profit more than doubled year-over-year.
Our cost and capacity reduction initiatives are on track to realize the expected $200 million per year cost savings benefit this year.
And we continue to see very good -- a very strong price/mix improvement during the quarter which has been enabled by our innovation which is winning in the marketplace; our strong global consumer brand portfolio which is enabling us to mix up our mix; and our continued support of our brands through ramped up investments.
Turning to Slide 6.
Overall revenues for the quarter were up 3% excluding the impact of currency and BEFIEX driven by strong product price and mix.
Our diluted earnings per share from ongoing business operations improved to $1.55 per share compared with $0.81 in the prior year and our underlying free cash flow significantly improved year-over-year from ongoing business operations.
On Slide 7 you can clearly see our continued positive trend of both price/mix and margin expansion.
During the first half we made very strong progress towards our full year margin target.
And we expect to improve our margins to 6% to 7% during the second half of the year and reach our full year operating profit margins of between 5.5% and 6% in line with our original guidance.
Turning to Slide 8.
Globally we now expect second half industry demand to improve versus first half levels.
We have revised several of our regional forecasts on a full year basis.
Our full year U.S.
industry demand is now forecasted to be flat to down 2% for the year.
In Latin America the Brazilian tax holiday was extended through the end of August.
And with this extension combined with good underlying economic fundamentals throughout the region we now expect demand growth to increase from our original guidance to the range of 5% to 7%.
In Europe we continue to see an industry decline for the year in the range of down 2% to down 5% for the full year.
And of course as you know the European markets continue to face very challenging macroeconomic conditions which are impacting consumer demand.
We are managing our business accordingly with cost and previously announced price actions along with very disciplined inventory management in this weak demand environment.
And finally we now expect full year unit shipments in Asia to be flat to up 2%.
Slide 9 shows our key business drivers for the year versus our original guidance.
As I just outlined demand was weak in the first half of the year and currencies were volatile and had a negative impact on operations.
Raw material inflation was in line with our forecast and we continue to expect a range of $300 million to $350 million for the year.
However if current raw material trends continue we would expect this to move towards the lower end of the range.
We continue to expect to fully offset all of these items with positive price/mix driven by our cadence of innovation and improving productivities which we fully expect in the second half of the year.
As I mentioned our restructuring costs and capacity asset reductions are on track and we will realize those benefits as they ramp up in the second half of the year.
So overall throughout the first half we're on track to deliver our EPS and free cash flow guidance and we're reaffirming that guidance for the year.
So with that I'm going to turn it over to Marc Bitzer to talk about our North America operations.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Let me start by giving my perspective on North America's performance during the quarter.
Starting on Slide 11.
First of all you see our revenues and margin for the region grew significantly during the quarter as margin expansion is due largely to our previously announced and fully implemented cost base price increases and an overall improved price/mix which has been now a consistent trend for the past 4 quarters.
In addition our cost and capacity reduction initiatives are delivering benefits as expected for the region.
And during the quarter we saw a record working capital driven by aggressive inventory management which means we took down production volumes which had a negative impact on profitability.
Turning to Slide 12.
You see net sales of $2.5 billion increase 4% from last year driven by favorable product price and mix.
Our ongoing business operating profit was $186 million which more than doubled as compared to $76 million in 2011.
Overall ongoing business operating margin was up more than 4 points year-over-year.
Turning to Slide 13 you can see just a few examples of our innovative products.
The cooking products you see are just a couple of examples of how we are growing our premium cooking business.
Earlier this year we opened a new manufacturing facility in Cleveland and Tennessee to continue to provide the world's most innovative cooking products including ranges ovens and cooktops.
Turning over to Slide 14.
While today we are providing our perspective in second quarter results.
It remains important to highlight the significant opportunity while our businesses' underlying industry demand start to slowly improve.
Today demand is at recessionary low levels and yet we were able to restore operating margins at 8%.
And yet we expect only relatively modest demand growth in the second half.
However we are beginning to see some early but consistent signs of housing recovery which makes us increasingly optimistic about a more structural demand recovery.
And obviously with operating margins now already at 8% there is significant opportunity once demand returns to more normal levels.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Mike for his review of our international operations.
Thanks Marc.
I'll begin with an overview of our international environment during the quarter on Slide 16.
Overall we have solid performance in our Latin America and Asia regions.
We saw improved product price and mix across our international businesses as we continue to launch consumer-relevant innovations in every product category around the world.
Europe remained challenging during the quarter with continued weak consumer demand across the Eurozone.
We took aggressive actions during the quarter.
Our cost reduction initiatives for the region are on track and when combined with previously announced cost-based price increases are expected to deliver sequential margin improvements and a return to profitability in the second half and into 2013 although the demand environment remains uncertain.
During the quarter we saw volatile movements in the global currency markets particularly in Brazil and India.
We continued our disciplined approach to inventory management and we expect to see some improvement in emerging market demand trends going forward.
If you turn to Slide 17 you'll see our Latin America second quarter results.
Sales were $1.2 billion compared to $1.3 billion in the prior year.
Excluding currency and BEFIEX sales increased more than 8% on slightly higher volumes.
Operating profit for the quarter totaled $103 million compared to $166 million in the prior year.
Favorable product price and mix was partially offset by unfavorable currency and lower monetization of tax credits.
On an adjusted basis excluding the Brazilian tax credits our operating profit for the quarter totaled $101 million and approximately 9% of sales compared to $87 million and approximately 7% of sales in the prior year period.
Turning to Slide 18.
As we previously discussed we have focused on higher margin products in Brazil.
As you can see illustrated here excluding a less profitable category in this case microwave ovens our T8 appliance units for our business in Brazil grew 7% versus last year.
Our decision to shift the business has positively impacted price and mix and profit during the quarter.
Turning to Slide 19.
In the second quarter our Europe Middle East and Africa sales decreased 18% year-over-year to $692 million with unit shipments down 7% compared to the prior year period.
Excluding the impact of currency sales decreased approximately 7%.
The region had an operating loss of $26 million down from the $20 million profit in the prior year period.
Favorable price/mix in the quarter was more than offset by unfavorable country mix volatile currency and significant production takeout to adjust for market demand and reduce our inventory levels.
Today inventories are in good shape and we do not expect that to be a headwind going forward as long as demand remains at current levels.
We also continue to execute our restructuring plan and we expect that our actions will allow us to return to profitability in the second half.
Our second quarter results in the Asia region are shown on Slide 20.
Net sales decreased 7% during the quarter to $241 million down from $257 million in the prior year period.
Excluding the impact of currency sales increased 6%.
The region's operating profit of $14 million improved sequentially and was essentially flat to the prior year.
Overall favorable product price/mix and consumer preference for our new product launches particularly in India was offset by volatile currency and unfavorable material cost.
In local currency India achieved record sales and operating profit for the quarter and this confirms that our consumer-relevant innovation is winning in the marketplace.
Turning to Slide 21.
You can see just a few examples of our international product launches during the quarter.
These products show just a glimpse of how we are advancing our global brand portfolio in more than 130 markets around the world.
Finally we continue to see tremendous growth potential in emerging markets where product penetration levels remain low as you can see on Slide 22.
Despite the temporary slowdown we expect to see a return to growth in these emerging markets as more consumers are able to purchase appliances and benefit from the quality and convenience they provide.
The potential in developing countries is tremendous if we consider the population and economic growth trends combined with these low penetration levels.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Larry Venturelli for his financial review.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
First let me start by putting into context first half performance relative to our full year guidance.
As you recall and shown on Slide 24 we are guiding to annual GAAP EPS of $5 to $5.50 per share and ongoing business operations EPS of $6.50 to $7.
For the first 6 months of the year we have earned GAAP EPS of $2.60 per share essentially the midpoint of annual guidance and ongoing business operations EPS of just under $3 per share.
As you know we do not provide quarterly earnings guidance.
It's important to note however that our first half earning results are ahead of the plan we established entering the year.
These results are driven by our ongoing operating profit margin which has essentially doubled from the second half 2011.
Our run rate continues to support the full year guidance we've provided several months ago which we are again reconfirming today.
Our lower tax rate which I will discuss in a moment is offsetting the unfavorable currency impact on our business.
Operationally our EPS guidance for the year remains solid and unchanged.
As you can see on Slide 25 we continue to expect 5.5% to 6% ongoing operating profit margin for the year which translates into a 300-basis point improvement.
With our first half results on plan and close to the low end of this range we fully expect margins to continue improving during the second half of the year.
Let me spend a minute on our year-over-year margin improvement.
For the first half of the year the drivers of our performance have been price/mix which is up approximately 4 points and is currently tracking higher than original expectations.
We continue to expect positive price/mix in the second half of the year.
However we will be comping against prior year price increases.
Another positive margin contributor has been benefits associated with our cost and capacity reduction program which continues to remain on plan.
We expect benefits to be somewhat higher in the second half of the year.
Material cost inflation was approximately $175 million in the first half.
And given industry demand levels we did take actions during the second quarter to reduce production to ensure inventories remained at appropriate levels.
The production cuts negatively impacted our conversion productivity.
As you can see on Slide 25 our second half margins are expected to be as Jeff said between 6% to 7%.
This sequential improvement is expected to be realized by the combination of improving productivity given a solid midyear inventory position higher volume in the second half of the year productivity program ramp up and lower material headwinds continued price/mix improvements from recent price increases.
And finally second half margins will also benefit from higher restructuring benefits as well as seasonality of our portables business.
Now turning to free cash flow on Page 26 and consistent with our expectations we did have a cash outflow for the first half of the year of $540 million.
It's important to note that current year cash flow includes the final installment of $275 million associated with the Brazilian collection dispute.
We also note that adjusting for items impacting comparability our underlying ongoing business cash flow improved over last year's first half.
Now we continue to expect to generate positive free cash flow between $100 million and $150 million for the year.
With legacy legal liabilities and the majority of our restructuring cash outlays behind us after this year we are very well positioned to generate significantly higher free cash flow in the future.
Let me spend a couple of minutes on our second quarter results which further solidified our full year guidance as well as some general topics.
But before I begin as a general reminder Slide 36 and 37 in the Appendix will provide you with a reconciliation of our reported GAAP operating profit and EPS to ongoing business operations for both 2012 and '11.
Included in this table are second quarter adjustments to drive our ongoing business operations and performance removing the impact of restructuring expense BEFIEX tax credits as well as the impacts from benefit plan curtailment gain the antitrust resolution investment impairment and adjustment to normalize the second quarter tax rate which I will discuss in a moment.
Turning to the financial summary on Slide 27.
Let me make a couple of observations.
While reported net sales declined 5% it's important to note that net sales from constant currencies and excluding BEFIEX credits were up more than 3%.
Our ongoing business operations operating profit improved by over 40% driven primarily by positive price/mix and cost and capacity reduction initiatives a very solid performance given lower industry demand unfavorable currencies and higher material cost.
On Slide 28 I'd like to make a couple of comments.
First prior year GAAP results included the Brazilian collection dispute and antitrust settlement benefits from energy tax credits as well as significantly higher BEFIEX credits.
These items are presented for your reference on Page 38.
Second regarding our 2012 tax rate in the first quarter we reported an effective GAAP tax rate of 27%; for the second quarter it was 4% on a GAAP basis which is lower than our full year expectations and driven by a timing of our tax planning.
We now expect our full year tax rate to be 25%.
For our ongoing business operations EPS our second quarter tax rate is 22%.
Now this reflects an adjustment to bring our first half tax rate to 25%.
Slide 29 illustrates our cost and capacity reduction charges.
The program remains on track and there are no changes from previous guidance.
We are on track to deliver $200 million in benefit in 2012 with an additional $200 million of benefit in 2013.
Let me turn now to the monetization of BEFIEX tax credits where we monetized $2 million in credits compared to $79 million last year as a result of the IPI tax holiday in Brazil.
As of June 30 $215 million credits remain.
Given the most recent extension to August 31 we continue to expect to monetize $60 million to $80 million this year unless the program will be extended for a third time.
If the program would be extended to the end of 2012 we would expect to monetize $40 million to $50 million for the full year.
One other item I'd like to note is on May 1 $350 million of 8% notes matured and were repaid.
On June 1 we completed a 10-year debt offering of $300 million of 4.7% notes.
Before I close on Slide 30 I want to review our short-term cash flow priorities which remain unchanged funding the business including capital expenditures and pension contribution; dividends as I previously mentioned funding the remaining legacy liabilities which are largely behind us after this year; and debt repayment.
Now I'll turn it back over to Jeff.
Thanks Larry.
Let me sum up by saying that we are pleased with our execution of the strong actions to improve our operating margins for the first half of the year and we are on track to achieve a record year of margin expansion throughout our global business.
And I think it's important to point out that we're able to do this in a period where both in North America and Europe are at or near recession lows in terms of demand and Asia is showing -- showed the weakest negative demand growth we've seen in many many years.
But I think looking forward more in line with our strategy there are many positives that we're starting to feel better about.
We are positive about what we're seeing in the U.S.
with housing trends.
We're seeing a foundation beginning to form in that sector which we think will benefit us over time.
We do have significant future opportunities for our business in emerging economies such as China India and the countries throughout Latin America.
We continue to see improvements in price/mix driven by our leading global brand portfolio and best-in-class innovation in our product launches and we do know that innovation sells in good markets and in difficult markets.
We will accelerate and we are investing to accelerate our innovation in both existing core business and adjacent spaces to further accelerate revenue growth and increase shareholder value.
Our ability to expand our operating margins and the conclusion of the legal -- the legacy liability payments position us very well for generating strong free cash flow in the second half of the year and going into 2013.
So overall we're positive about the progress we're making to continue to build our position as a strong global brand and consumer products company.
With that I'm going to end the formal remarks and open up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from the side of David MacGregor.
I guess I'm struck by data that was out this week just indicating that Lowe's has lost quite a bit of market share year-over-year in the second quarter and I'm just wondering how that might influence your North American business.
And secondly talk a little bit about how you become a little more retail agnostic given the concerns about what may ultimately happen at Sears and your recent news -- good news at Home Depot if you could just help us better understand that.
David it's Marc Bitzer.
As you know we're not typically commenting on specific retailer strategies or issues.
And in particular also I think you're referring to track end data which is not the only data source in the industry.
So I would -- let me just try to answer from a broader perspective.
I mean it's not driven by a particular Lowe's or Sears perspective.
We always -- we try to have a very good distribution position of all our brands across the entire country.
In that context that's probably also our Home Depot expansion where our addition of the local brand fits into.
So yes we're trying to have our brands appropriately represented at many or most outlets in the U.S.
so kind of be probably less exposed to an individual up or down of an individual retailer.
Okay maybe we can continue that conversation offline.
As well just in terms of the $200 million cost savings program you have going on is there anyway to talk about how much of that actually made it to the bottom line or what the contribution to the bottom line was from the cost reductions in the quarter? Are you talking about the restructuring David? Yes I am.
Yes for the quarter from a benefit perspective we had about 1% which is about $46 million; for the first half we're about $84 million.
So we'll get another let's call $115 million plus in the second half.
We'll be more weighted towards the second half of the year.
And David on that as Larry mentioned we had very positive PMR.
We had positive restructuring benefits.
We had negative currency and we had negative net productivity due to raw material increases and a significant reduction in production volumes as we kept inventories in line.
What we think is different in the second half is we think the production adjustments are more or less very well balanced and we expect productivity turn from a negative in the first half to a positive in the second half.
So what you're saying that you don't expect production curtailments to be significant to margins in the second half? No we don't.
We'll move our next question is from the side of Sam Darkatsh.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Talk about why you're taking your U.S.
expectations down in the second half.
I think the second quarter came in pretty much what you were expecting Jeff and you were talking about some encouraging signs you're seeing in the end markets.
So why be more sober on the expectations in the second half? Sam it's Marc.
Let me try to answer that.
Again I think it's more a question of math and just about we took down the full year expectation to kind of -- well the previous is that -- the previous guidance was 0 to slightly up but there's an emphasis on 0 more and now we're seeing 0 to a minus 2.
Again that is basically more a question of math.
If you would take a minus 2 that basically means the second half grows slightly less than 1 point.
If you go to higher part of our range 0 for full year that would mean that the second half grew by 4.7%.
And I think the truth will be somewhere in between.
I also want to take the opportunity to emphasize more -- yes we're still a little bit cautious about a strong dynamic growth in the second half but we are more confident about the underlying long-term and midterm demand trends and particularly by the housing the housing starts rental market activity which is the large of consistent signs which made us increasingly optimistic.
So I think it's more a question of when as opposed to if.
And Sam just -- again if you look at the numbers and the normal seasonality to Marc's point so we're really forecasting the second half between 1% and 5% to get to that guidance which is profoundly more positive than the first half.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And would you expect the second quarter share trends in the United States to continue also? Sam first quarter we were up.
Second quarter we're marginally down.
We're stable.
As we bring out innovations we're gaining shares.
So overall share trends aren't big concern right now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My second question you're going to have prodigious free cash flow in the second half of this year and then considerably more in the out-years than you saw this year because of the absence of a lot of costs.
Looking back over time you've had only 3 dividend increases over the past 20 years.
You haven't bought any stock back really over the last 4 or 5 years as I recall.
Do some of those type of cash flow uses begin to become much more appealing to you? And how should we look at that prospect over the next 6 to 12 months? Yes Sam for this year Larry outlined our 4 priorities and we've been executing to them all year and will continue to do so.
As we get out of 2012 and I'm not here to talk about forecasting 2013 or beyond but I would go back to the same list where clearly we regularly with our board sit down and review cash allocation.
And certainly as we get these legal liabilities behind us and we're generating -- our run rate from operations is very strong and will improve with earnings growth and certainly return to shareholder would be something we'd evaluate.
Let me turn to the next question from the side of Ken Zener.
Research Division</strong> Two things.
I want to focus on U.S.
demand as it relates to new construction first.
Can you talk about how the competitive dynamics might be or are different there versus the retail channel based on your distribution capacity? So I think you and GE are more focused there versus retail where other competitors easily service that.
Ken it's Marc Bitzer.
First of all and once again coming back to the housing when I refer to early signs of housing recovery we're still talking about very low levels.
But I think what is encouraging to see is that now start significantly out paces completions which just is already in the 6 to 8 months a better perspective.
Inventory is coming down.
And I don't think we should underestimate the dynamics of the rental market as a catalyst for the overall housing market.
There's just a lot of positive signs.
I think without getting too much specific and as you may often know the market share data on this what we call the building channel are not very well documented.
But I would just argue we have a very strong position in that channel.
And in particular over the last 2 or 3 years through the gains of some fairly large long-term contracts I think we're certainly better positioned coming out of the recession than we were coming into the recession.
And Ken your basic question is correct.
There is a very different market share structure in that channel than there is the retail channel.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you talk about -- you talked about lower volume impacting margins all else being equal.
Was that -- -- excuse me if I missed it was that in the order of let's say 150 basis points in terms of gross margin or how would you frame that? I'm sorry Ken from the...
Research Division</strong> From the lower volume how that impacted your margins excluding cost and pricing et cetera what that absence will be in the second half or the headwind in the first half? Yes I'd say versus our expectations for the year I'd say we expected if you did the math that overall industry volume would be flattish in our original guidance.
And now I'd say you'd probably see it down 0.5 point in the industry.
So from a production perspective I'd say that costing is about 0.5 point.
Research Division</strong> And they were referring to North America is that correct? Actually globally.
We had to take out a lot of production in Europe and also North America.
Yes yes I would say it was most profound in Europe secondly in North America.
We'll move next to the side of Michael Rehaut.
Research Division</strong> First question just on Europe I was hoping to dig in a little bit there.
The revenues -- I thought you said that you benefited from price/mix but I thought the units and revenues declined both 7%.
So I was a little confused there.
And also -- I was wondering if you could also go into a little bit more detail in terms of the return to profitability in the back half if that's more driven by just maybe the year-over-year declines not bad as -- this is a pretty low watermark for revenues or if there are -- maybe you can describe the timing of the restructuring benefits.
Yes Michael this is Mike Todman.
First of all just addressing the first point we did have constant currency 7% decline in our sales which was equal to our unit shipment.
But our country mix is less favorable if you will or more geared towards those markets that were more negative and so that impacted us overall in terms of our European performance.
Secondly what we did in order to respond to that and respond to the demand environment is we significantly reduced our production in order to get our inventories in line and so that is not something that we expect to see reoccurring in the second half.
And therefore that negative should go away as we come through the second half and that's why we feel pretty confident on returning to profitability.
And in addition price/mix should continue to improve as it has been and you will see it.
And restructuring benefits will ramp up and then of course what Mike said will show up in productivity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Secondly in North America you've made great progress there and the ability to execute the price increases have obviously been huge in driving that better performance.
Are there any price increases scheduled for the back half of the year? How do you think about pricing let's say on a go-forward basis? I know you're not going to be giving -- you don't give guidance per se.
But on a go forward now that you've got profitability in this 7% to 8% range is further -- maybe thinking about bigger picture further expansion more purely going to be driven by just volume and mix? And also how much within North America should we expect the restructuring benefits to apply down into the North American segment in 2013? So few parts to that question I apologize but...
Mike it's Marc Bitzer.
Let me first try to address some of that.
First of all it's a pretty good point as you highlighted we are back to this 8% which is a number which we communicated in the Investor Conference and that's in a recessionary environments.
So that's a good starting point.
What I want to point out on the price increase first in the past first of all I do believe we had a very very strong execution in this one because it's not just in this price increase we managed our mix very well which is typically something difficult to maintain once you go up with price increases.
As you know and we made that statement several times in the past we simply cannot comment on any forward plans.
We are as a company focused on the margin expansion and that's our course and that's a course which we will stay on.
And Mike I would add to that.
We talked about our restructuring activities.
We'll get $200 million of benefits to our P&amp;L this year and we fully expect another $200 million benefit to our P&amp;L next year with the completion of these activities of which these will largely fall in North America and Europe.
The second thing I would point out is that through our innovation we continue to invest significant both capital and R&amp;D.
And we get -- on our innovation projects we do get margin i.e.
mix upgrades from that.
So I guess the way I would put it is that if you look at demand if you look at price/mix if you look at restructuring if you look at ongoing productivity those are all the levers that we're focused on to drive and expand our operating margins both in North America and around the world.
Some have a bigger impact during different periods of time but we're very focused on -- we're not satisfied with today's margin levels.
Anywhere in the world we're very focused on expanding those margins.
Research Division</strong> One last quick one if I could just the tax rate for 2013.
How should we think about that given some of the changes this year? Yes I think Michael what we said before we're -- from a guidance perspective we'll provide that in -- when we release our fourth quarter earnings.
But certainly from a normalized basis mid-20s to high 20s will be the range that we'd be looking at probably closer towards the mid-20s.
And we will take our final question this one from the side of Joshua Pollard.
Research Division</strong> Let me start with Brazil.
I'm trying to understand how much of your 1.7 points of margin improvement came from getting out of the microwave business ultimately trying to split the organic versus inorganic changes in your margins there.
Well Josh I won't split up specifically that.
But clearly getting out of unprofitable businesses has a positive impact to our overall margin.
But having said that we also had positive price/mix in the rest of our business in Latin America and our business grew.
So really all of those are contributing to the improvement in margin.
As well as yield as we talked about throughout -- really beginning last year at this time and we have announced and implemented selective cost-based price increases almost throughout our entire range over the last 12 months.
So that's showing up positive mix from innovation.
And to Mike's point the absence of selling -- a significant part of that microwave business is well over half is loss making and  we've chosen not to participate in that.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I'm just wondering is it a big benefit? I can't tell if the 8.8 that you got -- could you say that again? It's material.
Research Division</strong> Immaterial or material? It is material.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
My second question is in what areas should we expect the $115 million of remaining productivity gains from your cost program to flow through? I mean it seems like the areas where you guys are expecting the most improvement in the second half is in your Europe margins overall but I'm also noticing that your SG&amp;A is up almost -- is up 5% to 7% or almost $40 million year-on-year in the second quarter.
Can you talk about what areas investors should expect to see the reductions from your cost program? Josh this is Larry.
A couple of things from an SG&amp;A perspective we did guide at the beginning of the year that we would have a higher SG&amp;A for the year.
And a part of that has to do with the higher employee benefits the other part has to do with just increased investments in advertising and consumer support.
From a productivity perspective and the balance in the back half of the year a couple of things to keep in mind is one is that the second half volume for us historically and will be this year is higher volume.
And we just mentioned for the second quarter we took out a significant amount of production.
So you don't have the same headwinds from a conversion perspective as you did in the first half.
Our inventories are in very good shape so we'll have higher volumes in the second half of the year.
From a productivity perspective on some of the programs our cost change programs ramp up throughout the year.
We've got programs going within the distribution network.
Material content is within cost change.
So things like that are what kind of builds throughout the year.
And then along with that we have restructuring we said was more back end weighted.
So those are some of the things that help us improve our productivity in the second half of the year.
And Josh you'll see the lion's share of that in the gross margin.
Research Division</strong> And then if I can sneak one more in.
Commodities at current levels I'm not calling it guidance by any stretch of imagination but how much of a benefit could you see in 2013? My simple math is you guys went from the high end of the range at the end of 1Q to the low end of the range at the end of 2Q.
If you assume that $50 million that you saved over a quarter annualize that could it be $200 million or is that thinking too big? Josh in February we gave our guidance of $300 million $350 million.
At the end of April we actually guided towards the higher end of the range because things were moving strongly in that direction.
And we're reaffirming our guidance for the year now and said that if current trends continue it could be towards the low end.
So I mean even within this period there's quite a bit of volatility.
It's just too early for us to give you any kind of outlook for 2013.
There's a lot of moving parts as you very well know in raw materials.
And as we get late in the year and that's -- or actually early next year is will be the earliest that we give guidance for 2013.
Well listen everybody thank you for joining us today.
We look forward to talking with you next time.
And this concludes today's program.
Have a great day.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to Whirlpool Corporation's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Senior Director of Investor Relations Joe Lovechio.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Whirlpool Corporation Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Joining me today are Jeff Fettig our Chairman and CEO; Mike Todman President of Whirlpool International; Marc Bitzer President of Whirlpool North America; and Larry Venturelli our Chief Financial Officer.
Our remarks today track with the presentation available on the Investors section of our website at whirlpoolcorp.com.
Before we begin let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements to assist you in understanding Whirlpool Corporation's future expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially from these statements due to many factors discussed in our latest 8-K 10-K and 10-Q as well as in the Appendix of this presentation.
Turning to Slide 3.
We want to remind you that today's presentation includes non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures are important indicators of our operation as they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to results from our ongoing business operations.
We also think that the adjusted measures will provide you with a better baseline for analyzing trends in our ongoing business operation.
Listeners are directed to the Appendix section of our presentation beginning on Slide 31 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP items to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
With that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Well good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Let me start by noting that we delivered significant improvement in our third quarter operating results driven by our North America Latin America and Asia regions.
Year to date we're delivering on our commitments to expand our operating margins and we've significantly strengthened our free cash flow.
In fact these results marked the third consecutive quarter of year-over-year operating margin improvement this year.
Overall our actions have more than offset higher material cost inflation and unfavorable foreign currency.
Our cost and capacity reduction initiatives are on track to deliver the expected $200 million of cost savings benefits for this year.
And very importantly we continue to see strong price and mix improvement during the quarter driven by a strong cadence of new product introduction and our strong global consumer brand portfolio which is enabling us to mix up in most markets around the world.
As a result we're increasing our full year ongoing business operation guidance for EPS to $6.90 to $7.10 per share and our free cash flow to between $125 million and $175 million.
Turning to Slide 6.
You'll see that overall revenues were up 5% excluding the impact of foreign currency and BEFIEX.
This revenue growth was driven by our strong price and mix.
Our diluted earnings per share from ongoing business operations improved 6x what they were last year to $1.80 per share compared to $0.29 in the prior year.
And our underlying free cash flow improved significantly year-over-year from our ongoing business operations.
Turning to Slide 7 you can see our industry demand assumptions for the year.
Globally we continue to expect second half industry demand to improve from first half levels.
And although while industry demand remains in many markets relatively weak we are optimistic about some growth that we're seeing in some particular markets and particularly trends that we're seeing in the U.S.
housing market.
Additionally our ongoing business performance shift continue to improve because of our strong pipeline of new product innovations coming to the market and the benefit of our cost savings initiatives that we've already announced.
On Slide 8 you can clearly see our positive price and mix and margin expansion trends over the last several quarters.
Year-to-date we made very strong progress towards our full year margin and we fully expect to reach our full year operating profit margin guidance of between 5.5% and 6%.
At this point in time I'd like to turn it over to Marc Bitzer for his review of our North America operations.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Let me begin by reviewing North America's performance in the third quarter.
Starting on Slide 10.
Both revenues and margins for the region grew during the quarter.
And our strong operating margins exceed 9% for the quarter and were driven by price and mix.
Our continuous investment in innovation coupled with strong market execution drove significant product improvement.
Turning to Slide 11.
You see the net sales of $2.4 billion increased slightly over 2% from last year driven by favorable price from lower volumes.
And as we've previously stated our priority is margin improvement.
We have gained share in the higher price segment across most products driven by innovation as evidenced by our positive mix.
Our ongoing business operating profit was $227 million which more than tripled as compared to $62 million in 2011.
This means overall ongoing business operating margin was up almost 7 points year-over-year.
In addition to price and mix the year-over-year improvement was also driven by the benefit of our cost and capacity reduction initiatives.
Turning to Slide 12.
You can just see just one example of a new innovation that is driving improved price and mix.
The photo shows our new Whirlpool brand White Ice Collection.
Lastly as I mentioned on our last call shown on Slide 13.
It is important to point out that there is good upside for the business as underlying industry demand improves.
And as we've already stated during our last earnings call we continue to see some early but consistent signs of housing recovery which makes us increasingly optimistic about a more structural demand recovery.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Mike for his review of our international operations.
Thanks Marc.
Turning to Slide 15.
Overall our international operations were led by strong performances in our Latin America and Asia regions which more than offset the effect of unfavorable currency and the weak economic environment in Europe.
We delivered improved price and mix across our international business as we continue to launch consumer-relevant innovations in every product category around the world.
If you turn to Slide 16 you'll see our Latin America third quarter results.
Sales of $1.2 billion were flat to the prior year.
Excluding currency and BEFIEX sales increased more than 21% on higher volumes and improved mix.
Operating profit for the quarter totaled $118 million compared to $147 million in the prior year.
The year-over-year decline was driven primarily by lower monetization of tax credits.
On an adjusted basis excluding Brazilian tax credits our operating profit for the quarter totaled $105 million compared to $85 million a 24% improvement year-over-year.
We saw good market demand in Brazil and across the entire Latin America region.
Turning to Slide 17.
We gained share in our core 3 appliances with a positive price and mix offsetting the adverse effects of higher material cost.
For our Latin America business outside of Brazil we had a record operating profit across the region and our adjusted margin increased more than 1 point.
Turning to Slide 18.
During the quarter we faced continued weak consumer demand across the Eurozone negative conversion due to reduced production unfavorable currency and high raw material cost.
Our Europe Middle East and Africa sales declined to $703 million with unit shipments down 9% compared to the prior period.
Excluding the impact of currency sales decreased approximately 10%.
The region had an operating loss of $35 million compared to the $12 million loss in the prior year period.
Given the environment we have taken appropriate actions to position the business for a return to profitability during the fourth quarter as we realize benefits from our cost and capacity-reduction initiatives benefit from higher seasonal volumes during the fourth quarter improved price and mix within key countries and across our distribution supported by new product innovations and realize the benefits from our ongoing productivity initiatives which will ramp up in the fourth quarter.
We will further accelerate these actions to ensure we move to a profitable position despite a continued negative environment.
Our third quarter results in the Asia region are shown on Slide 19.
During the quarter we gained market share in India and expanded our margins across the region despite weak consumer demand and unfavorable currency.
Net sales decreased 6% during the quarter to $201 million down from $215 million in the prior-year period.
Excluding the impact of currency sales increased 2%.
The region's operating profit was $7 million up from $4 million in the prior year.
In local currency we are on track for a record year of performance in India despite lower industry volumes and higher material costs.
Slide 20 shows the continued strong cadence of new international product launches and design awards during the quarter.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Larry Venturelli.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
As Jeff mentioned and as shown on Slide 22 given our strong year-to-date operating performance and trends entering the fourth quarter we are increasing our annual ongoing business operations EPS range to $6.90 to $7.10 per share compared to the previous range of $6.50 to $7.
We're also increasing our free cash flow guidance to between $125 million and $175 million.
As you can see on Slide 23 we continue to expect the 5.5% to 6% ongoing operating profit margin for the full year.
This translates into a 300 basis point improvement.
Our ongoing operating profit margins increased to approximately 6% during the third quarter and is expected to continue increasing in the fourth quarter given higher seasonal volumes benefits from our cost and capacity-reduction initiatives and continued sequential productivity improvement.
Our year-over-year margin improvement drivers for Q3 were price/mix which was up approximately 4 points and is trending higher than original expectations.
Driven by both cost-based price increases as well as favorable mix we continue to expect positive year-over-year price and mix for the balance of the year.
Another positive margin contributor has been benefits associated with our cost and capacity reduction program contributing over a point to our year-over-year margin improvement during the quarter.
Material cost inflation was approximately $60 million in the third quarter.
While we did benefit from sequential improvement in productivity from the second quarter our productivity was somewhat impacted due to continued weakness in demand primarily within Western Europe.
Now turning to free cash flow on Slide 24.
Consistent with our expectations we did have cash outflow through the first 9 months of the year of $435 million significantly better than the $740 million of outflow last year.
Adjusting for items impacting comparability our underlying ongoing business cash flow improved by over $450 million compared to this time last year.
Let me spend a couple of minutes on some general topics embedded in our third quarter results and 2012 guidance.
Before I do that as a general reminder Slide 33 and 34 in the Appendix will provide you with a reconciliation of our reported GAAP operating profits and EPS to ongoing business operations for 2012 and 2011.
Included in this table our third quarter 2012 adjustments to drive our ongoing business operation performance removing the impact of restructuring tax credits as well as the impacts from legal resolutions and an adjustment to normalize the third quarter tax rate to reflect the rate of 25% which is consistent with our full year tax rate assumption.
Turning to the financial summary on Slides 25 and 26 let me provide a couple of important observations.
It's important to note that net sales in constant currencies and excluding BEFIEX credits were up approximately 5%.
Monetization of BEFIEX tax credits were $13 million compared to $62 million last year as a result of the IPI tax holiday in Brazil.
As of September 30 $202 million of credits remain.
The IPI tax holiday in Brazil was recently extended to December 31 and we now expect to monetize approximately $40 million to $45 million for the full year.
Regarding interest and sundry.
In the third quarter we resolved some nonrecurring legal items.
The net impact of these $22 million in expense was recorded in interest and sundry for the quarter and is adjusted from ongoing business operations to provide better clarity of our underlying business results.
Slide 27 illustrates our cost and capacity reduction charges.
The program is progressing very well.
We are on track to deliver $200 million of benefit in 2012 with an additional $200 million of benefit in 2013.
In closing 2012 is shaping up to be a very solid year of margin improvement.
We have a vast majority of our legacy legal liability payments behind us and our underlying operating cash flow is strong.
During the fourth quarter the company completes its annual planning process including contract negotiation with key stakeholders.
Consistent with prior year's practice we will provide guidance for 2013 during our next conference call in late January early February.
Now I'll turn it back over to Jeff.
Thanks Larry.
Let me sum up by turning to Slide 29 and just highlight the following points.
Again we are delivering our margin expansion and cash flow commitments for the year.
We continue to increase our cadence of new product innovation in the marketplace.
We are realizing the benefit of our cost and capacity reduction initiatives and we're beginning to see some positive growth trends in particular recent U.S.
housing trends.
So overall we're pleased with our progress and we expect to finish this year strong.
Given our improving operating margins we're upwardly revising our ongoing business operations and free cash flow guidance.
And as we enter the fourth quarter we are on track for the year to realize our full year operating margin target of 5.5% to 6%.
I believe this will we will achieve a record year for margin expansion across our global business.
And we certainly believe at this point in time we are on track towards delivering our midterm 8% operating margin target.
As Larry mentioned we're not giving 2013 guidance today but we do fully expect our positive momentum to carry over into 2013 as we realize an even greater benefit from our restructuring and cost initiatives as well as a continued strong cadence of new product introductions.
Finally on Slide 30.
I'm increasingly confident in our opportunities that we see to grow in our business.
These opportunities for us will come through our investments and consumer-relevant innovations.
We see appliance growth opportunities in both developed and emerging markets.
We are making good progress in expanding into higher margins faster-growing adjacent businesses and we continue to strengthen our global brand portfolio.
We continue to make progress on our roadmap for growth.
And more importantly we're performing at levels and we'll continue to increase those levels to create value for our shareholders.
So with that I'm going to close in on our formal remarks and open this up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from the site of Sam Darkatsh with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First off market share in North America and Europe look to be sharply lower.
I know some of that's by design.
When do you expect that to stabilize? And how important is it to you as opposed to incremental returns on capital? And the second question would be regarding sequential price versus mix.
Can you throw a little color specifically around the world as to what you're seeing sequentially with price and mix as opposed to them combined? Sam it's Marc Bitzer.
Let me try to answer both questions for North America.
First of all on market share and let me give you a broader context.
I mean we've said all along I think over the last 5 or 6 earnings calls that our focus is on restoring operating margin.
And why? Very simply because it doesn't make sense to push for volume when you have sub-par margin.
I think it's more than fair to say what we've delivered on that promise.
We outperformed our competitors by a long shot in our operating margin in North America.
With that in mind our share loss actually is fairly small.
And I think more important and I'm coming to you coming on by line is if you break down the component of the share movement.
We actually gained share in the higher end segment.
That is evidenced by the strong I mean with the exceptionally strong product mix price/mix which we got in Q3.
And obviously you wouldn't get that kind of mix if you don't gain share in the higher end segment.
At the same time and that's by design element we kind of -- we did not go up to a certain unprofitable low end market shares.
[indiscernible] by design and I would say that has certainly stabilized now.
So I don't expect -- even as you know we don't give forward guidance but I would consider that right now as a stable market share and we're pretty comfortable with the levels right now.
Pretty good.
On your second part of your question the sequential pricing.
Actually as Larry indicated the global price in Q3 was 4% slightly above 4% year-over-year.
North America was quite a bit above that which basically also tells you sequentially we were stable which I would say given that we've kind of -- going to anniversary of the price increase of last year is a very strong performance.
And again as I mentioned before it's largely mix driven because obviously the like-for-like price impact basic levels of [indiscernible] anniversary for price increases.
Sam let me address your first question on Europe market share.
We did lose some market share although not significant in Europe.
But again it's clearly focused on making sure that we go after the share that really counts for our business.
And so we don't expect that to continue.
As a matter of fact what we saw in September is that we started to recover share in key categories that we wanted to and we expect that to continue as we go into the fourth quarter.
In terms of your second question on sequential price/mix.
For the overall international region we were stable.
And then region to region it was more or less stable in most of the regions I think slightly down in Europe but everywhere else it was stable.
Yes Sam.
From both Marc and Larry's comment from a global perspective sequentially price/mix all look very very well.
We did have some nice margin improvement coming from restructuring productivity between Q2 and Q3.
And as far as what we'd expect in Q4 due to the seasonality of the business we'd expect the mix-up again in Q4.
Our next question is from the site of Joshua Pollard from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My first one is on your 2013 restructuring benefit.
I sort of think of your productivity and restructuring in 2 separate buckets.
There's the ongoing piece which is pretty hard to see in your margins.
And then there's what you guys have done over the last year which is obviously showing up in your margins.
When you say restructuring for 2013 the benefit to be $200 million which of those 2 buckets does it fall into? Should we see that in your margins? And if so in what regions? Josh this is Jeff.
Absolutely.
And we communicated it in 2 buckets.
The restructuring benefits relate to the announcements we made 1 year ago at this time where we said we were going to reduce our fixed cost.
We were going to take out unprofitable capacity and that we would deliver $200 million in net benefits to our P&amp;L in 2012 and another $200 million net benefits to our P&amp;L in 2013.
And that's still the plan and we're on track to do that.
Separate from that is our ongoing net cost productivity which takes into account material inflation et cetera et cetera and then the productivity actions that we take to offset that.
This year we continue to have given the GDP around the world very high raw material cost inflation.
We had very high salary and benefits and electricity and things like that around the world.
We did have a good -- we are having a good year of gross productivity.
But that's an area where we have not been able to fully offset that inflation in our net productivity.
Going into next year we will see when we give guidance in late January early February.
We'll give you our assumptions on that but typically we would try to offset all of that and have positive net productivity particularly if we had stable or modestly growing volume.
And then Josh this is Larry.
As far as the restructuring in the margin.
An approximation you'd see about 85% of restructuring flow-through.
Gross margin 25% -- 15% would be within the SG&amp;A area.
The regional split 75% North America.
Europe would be 15% to 20% and the rest of the world will be the balance.
Research Division</strong> My second one is on your volumes by end market.
I guess this question is going to be for Marc.
Can you talk about your volumes in the contractor channel versus retail? And then within the retail can you talk about how long it's going to take you guys before you lap sort of the market share losses that you guys have blatantly taken this year? In other words should we expect relative to AHAM 6 that your retail volumes are sort of 5 to 6 points below the industry for the next 4 quarters? Or is it some shorter period of time? It's Marc Bitzer.
First of all when you look at our Q3 volumes there's one additional comment which we need to make.
There was a specific impact due to an exceptionally weak Mexican market which had an impact on the overall quarter.
But having said that our volumes also in U.S.
have been down in Q3.
Now to answer your question about the split of retail versus contract if you want to make that simplification.
Obviously to date the weight of so-called contract to build the channel is significantly lower [indiscernible].
We're talking about a factor of 3.
Now what has happened in the meantime is I would say significant strength in our position in that contract to build the channel and are therefore in our view very well positioned to an upturn in that market.
Given the recent trends in the housing market it is yet too early to see that impact in our numbers.
Yet you see an increase in the building contract channels but it's not to a magnitude that has had significant weight in our overall business.
Having said that with ongoing good news in the housing market I expect that positive momentum to more and more show up in our overall numbers.
Research Division</strong> What was the difference in the growth between retail and contractor for the quarter? What I said Josh is that the contract channel in terms of impact or size [indiscernible] is down by a factor of 3 pretty much versus the 6.
I mean we're talking about a very very significant market.
Year-over-year Josh absolutely we're seeing increase in the contract shipments year-over-year in strong double digits as we have all year.
But I think Marc's point was it's just a small part of the total market.
We'll move next to that site of David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
I guess you still have a few billion dollars of unrecovered cost inflation over the past decade.
Just what's the opportunity to continue leveraging innovation to get pricing and rebuild margins? I guess that'll be the first question.
David we absolutely agree with you.
Despite generally difficult economic conditions around the world we continue to see every day the consumers pay for real innovation.
And that's why our focus is and has been all through this downturn -- we never have stopped to reduce our level of investment in new product innovation or R&amp;D.
If anything we've been increasing it of late.
So you would expect the cadence of innovation from us to continue and probably at an increasing rate.
Because that is -- that with strong brands is how you can sell and create value in our business at least in our business model.
But we don't take our productivity.
That's why a year ago we said we did not know when global demand levels would return or what the new norm was.
And that we were going to reduce our fixed costs by $400 million to adjust to this -- today's level of demand and expand our operating margins.
And we'll have that again $200 million which is almost a full point or is a full point going into next year that we fully expect to realize.
And then lastly I'd add productivity.
Again even during this downturn prolonged downturn and weak global GDP growth we've had tremendous amount [ph] of  material cost inflation.
There are times like we did this year and some last year where it is imperative that we go out with cost-based price increases as we have.
In some high inflation markets of the world we even recently announced new price increases.
So we're willing to do that.
I think going back to Marc's question we don't see a lot of value in chasing low end in our view profit destroying pieces of the business when we have opportunities to invest in new product innovation that we get paid for.
So we're committed.
We're by no means done in our operating margin target that we laid out a couple of years ago for 2014 say plus percent operating profit.
We're still committed to that and we see ample opportunities around the world to be able to achieve that.
I guess the question is just with -- in light of the innovation that you bring into market can you -- does that give you the means to achieve pricing despite a flat raw material market? The flat raw material market should continue fairly couple of years.
Is innovation enough to allow you to continue to improve your pricing as you go and recover a couple of billion dollars of unrecovered cost inflation? Well again I think a couple billion that you talked about it is true that's what we absorbed.
I’ll put it a different way.
I do believe we can sell our new product innovation at attractive value-creating levels which will in fact continue to drive us to mix up.
So I -- we are nowhere in the world today are we satisfied with our operating margins.
So we're taking actions on both new product innovation in parts of the world and new pricing but certainly also focusing on cost and productivity to ensure that we have a pipeline of margin expanding activities in our system to be able to deal with whatever kind of environment we see.
Second question just last question.
You're talking about the $200 million of restructuring benefits and creating net P&amp;L benefit of $200 million a year for 2 years.
If we get some kind of a cyclical recovery in 2013 presumably everybody's going to beef up their ad spend and I'm just wondering how much of that $200 million for 2013 you think you can actually take to the bottom line versus having to redeploy into a brand support? Well we've already been beefing up our brand in new product innovation investment.
And as we have more and more new products to do we'll continue to do that.
So again we're not giving 2013 guidance today.
But the flip side of -- as we see recovery we're going to have volume leverage as well.
So I think there are a number of levers available to us in our business to both invest the right way to create value and to fund that while expanding our operating margins.
We'll move next to the site of Eric Bosshard of Cleveland Research.
Two questions.
First of all the increase in the full year guidance it looks like Europe you're probably going to make less money than you originally expected.
So I'm interested in the moving parts within the increased guidance.
That's my first question.
Yes Eric.
If you look at where we are year to date and again we talk about continued seeing strong momentum as we finished the year on a full year basis Europe is lower and North America is higher.
And everywhere else is about the same.
And then secondly with North America you've been focused this year on -- focused greater on profitability and less on volume and your retail partners have gone along with that.
I'm curious if you think this is sustainable for an extended period of time.
How you think about that as we look into 4Q and even into 2013? Eric it's Marc Bitzer.
Again let me reiterate our focus has been on margin expansion.
I think the big difference in Q3 compared to prior quarters it's more than just price/mix but we also have now price/mix and productivity and part of that coming from the structure.
I would say our margin expansion is now in better footing than it was probably in Q1 Q2 which as you know also speaks volumes about sustainability.
And our ability to keep pricing up on several sequential quarters and getting cost gives us quite a bit of confidence to make it sustainable.
And to add to that too is our trade partners certainly expect and benefit from our new product innovation.
They expect us and benefit for -- as investing in our brands which brings customers in their doors.
Selling the better mix of product for them is as helpful to them as it is to us.
And then lastly the assumption for 4Q North America is an improvement in volume relative to the year-to-date and relative to 3Q.
Interested in sort of what you're seeing in the business that gives you some confidence and a little bit of a step-up in volumes in 4Q? Eric it's Marc Bitzer again.
As you've seen we've kind of kept our full year volume/mix [indiscernible] or industry guidance on the same level [indiscernible].
If you mathematically would take the midpoint that would give you a 3.5% to 4% growth.
I think what is [indiscernible] affecting our guidance is at the lower end of that range which is probably making the 1% or 2% growth in Q4.
And that's pretty much what is the most probable scenario.
We continue to see a lot of volatility in the market.
But right now we're at as I've said before coming from the margin and cost take-outs we're in very good position for Q4.
And the other thing I'll add is just globally for the company Q3 to Q4.
Volumes in general are around 15% sequentially.
Normal seasonality.
We'll go next to the site of Ken Zener with KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> A lot of questions already asked.
If you could maybe give us a specific update on U.S.
Home Depot the pilot program.
Give us a comment on Brazil relative to your margin outlook as it relates specifically I believe to one of your competitors.
Perhaps losing a land position to make a factory.
That's the first question.
Ken it's Marc Bitzer.
Let me first take your Home Depot question.
As you know we have a long-standing quality of not getting specific of trade partners' strategies or actions.
But obviously it's a well-known fact that we kind of participate with the Whirlpool brand in addition to our success with Maytag and Amana business at Home Depot in what Home Depot put out as a pilot what they called the [indiscernible].
I would say the only comment which we can make we're actually very pleased with the progress so far.
And it's in line or even slightly above our expectations so far.
And Ken to answer the question on Brazil.
We feel good about our continued margin expansion in that region.
We're expecting to see that progress continue in the fourth quarter.
Our volumes have been very strong.
As you can see in the core 3 appliances of the strategy that we deployed all year is working.
And frankly I won't speculate on what our competitors will or will not do.
What we're trying to do is execute our strategy have the right innovation in the market and ensure that consumers want our products [indiscernible].
So far it's working.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess to the extent that you said the volume shortfall while partly from Mexico was certainly related to walking away from some of the low end share.
Marc I believe you said that those share losses had stabilized.
Would that imply to the extent you got margin growth in the third quarter due to mix you're now not believing off share [ph] in lower margin product.
Does that imply sequential margin pressure in North America? Ken it's Marc.
And obviously it's a number of question embedded in 1 big question.
On the volume Mexico had a very peculiar and very soft market I would say year-to-date.
It's kind of [indiscernible] emerging market pattern which we expect to stabilize going forward.
That had a very significant impact or had a significant impact in our overall Q3 unit business.
My comment on the low end was referring to -- and that is again the context of margin expansion.
We focus on selling on innovation particularly the higher end of the market.
And we also had a significant mix growth.
At the same time we kind of -- we did not aggressively go after some low end unprofitable market segment.
And that's why we vacated [ph] some share.
I would say that action is behind us.
It's pretty much stabilized.
I don't -- from that natural trend we don't expect a big change and we can't comment and won't comment much about Q4 specifics.
But I don't expect that massive change in market share trend so far.
Research Division</strong> All right.
I guess and then just my last question would be taking a step back given near 600 700 basis points margin move in the U.S.
How much of the ITC petition -- there's 2 of them obviously the refrigerator being appealed; but the current tariff in place on washers.
How should we think about perhaps benefits you're already receiving from these petitions relative to your internal actions related to price and not willing to back up? How much of the tariff benefit has already been perhaps incorporated? Ken it's Marc again.
Simple answer is 0.
I don't think we have any benefit in our current Q3 performance which also means if there's a positive outcome which we count on that should be outside.
The next is the site of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question on North American margins obviously great performance and congrats on that.
Looking at the performance sequentially though up about 180 bps excluding the gain from 2Q on slightly lower revenue and I guess part of that as you've been talking about is mix.
Is that kind of the biggest driver in terms of the sequential improvement in margin profitability? Or are there incremental benefits coming from price or even perhaps on a sequential basis any benefit from lower raw materials? Michael it's Marc Bitzer again.
Just on your question with sequential margin.
There's 2 components which you've got to look at.
One is the pricing component as such which pretty much held as an impact.
However the composition of the pricing impact has changed.
And Q2 was a little bit more like-for-like and less mix.
And now it's a whole lot more mix and less like-for-like.
And that's just the nature of us going through the anniversary of price increase from last year.
The second component that has changed is we see cost and restructuring benefits in Q3 to a higher or much higher extent than we saw in Q2.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And also I guess looking at Europe Mike if you could shed some light at least on stated revenue basis revenues have inched up a little bit in 2Q and 3Q coming off of the first quarter.
Yet margins have obviously deteriorated.
Just kind of trying to understand it sequentially in terms of -- because certainly you've been getting some restructuring benefits from a cost side this year.
But it seems like the profits have been going the other way despite higher revenues.
So what's been going on there and what's behind the confidence behind profitability in the fourth quarter? Yes first Michael just to kind of look at although revenues have been going up we had to take out fairly significant amount of production.
And just from a seasonal perspective you normally see kind of increases in volume quarter-over-quarter.
But still if you look at the third quarter revenues were down about 10%.
But why we're confident going forward is both on the restructuring side in terms of the benefit as you know takes a little bit longer to ramp those up.
We're going to see more of those in the fourth quarter.
We see more productivity coming in the fourth quarter.
We have higher seasonal revenues in the fourth quarter and we already saw -- we were already profitable in the month of September and we see that continuing in October.
So we're pretty confident that we've -- that all of the actions that we've been taking very aggressively are really starting to work.
And we're beginning to see that turn in Europe.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One last question if I could sneak it in about bigger picture with product innovation.
And Jeff and Marc you've both highlighted that the shift to the higher end products I think pitting is that something -- I assume that's something that obviously you're counting on into '13.
Just trying to get a sense of I guess particularly on the mix side the mix benefit has that something that's been kind of just emerging over the last couple of quarters and you'd expect that positive mix shift in North America to flow over into '13? And if there's anything additional in terms of perhaps a volume benefit relative to the market in general from product innovation.
And I guess both of these comments I'm really centering around North America here.
Michael this is Jeff.
I would say this is a trend we've seen for the last several years really with the exception of late 2008 early 2009.
Consumers buy that.
And given the average points last for 10-plus years and that we are still clearly in a replacement market.
When people go into stores and see our products they see things very dramatically differently than they did 10 years earlier when they purchased whatever product we're replacing.
And that value's relevant.
Yes there is a small portion of the market who can only buy the affordable -- from a price standpoint opening price point product but that's very low in our market compared certainly to other markets around the world.
And what we've seen with again only a small less than a half a year interruption is that when you bring value to the marketplace in the form of new product innovation given consumers' choice they will mix themselves up because the value they're receiving is a great value.
It's a value in terms of performance of the machine the energy efficiency the water efficiency the design and on and on and on.
So I don't see this as a 2012 trend.
I see this as a structural trend.
And our view is is to increase our cadence in new product innovation continue to offer great values in the marketplace supported by consumer demand and strong brand preference brands and that -- and we have a portfolio that's made to mix up.
Research Division</strong> Larry one quick question on pension.
I noticed that the cash flow guidance has benefit contributions or pension contributions up to $200 million versus previously up to $250 million.
Is that something that also kind of works through the income statement in that perhaps there was less "pension expense " or if you could just kind of describe what's -- what you expect to work through the income statement this year versus perhaps previously? And where you think pension contribution could be in '13 even? Yes a couple things Michael.
We did adjust the pension contributions from up to $250 million to $200 million.
That's to do with the new legislation.
It has no P&amp;L impact whatsoever.
The cash change that you saw we did have the higher operating performance.
You mentioned the lower pension cash a little bit lower restructuring cash.
But I also mentioned in my prepared remarks that we have lower BEFIEX credits.
This has less cash.
And we have these legal resolutions that also occurred in Q3.
We'll have a little bit slightly higher working capital than we originally expected.
We're taking out a lot of working capital to generate cash.
So net-net operationally the business is doing well from a cash perspective.
From a pension expense perspective again both in the U.S.
and foreign we have about $50 million of pension expense.
We'll provide you with additional guidance when we talk next time regarding expense.
The new legislation will increase our pension expense by about $12 million next year but I don't expect a significant increase above that.
Research Division</strong> Not even with the lower interest rates? Remember our pension plans are frozen.
So we don't on the expense side have a lot of impact from pension for the interest rates.
From a contribution perspective we would expect to be -- to pay less cash next year.
Well listen everyone we're going to conclude the call here.
Thank you again for joining us today and we look forward to talking to you early next year.
This concludes today's program.
Have a great day.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to Whirlpool Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2012 and Year-End Earnings Release Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Senior Director of Investor Relations Joe Lovechio.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Whirlpool Corporation Fourth Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Joining me today are Jeff Fettig our Chairman and CEO; Mike Todman President of Whirlpool International; Marc Bitzer President of Whirlpool North America; and Larry Venturelli our Chief Financial Officer.
Our remarks today track with the presentation available on the Investors section of our website at whirlpoolcorp.com.
Before we begin let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements to assist you in understanding Whirlpool Corporation's future expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially from these statements due to many factors discussed in our latest 8-K 10-K and 10-Q as well as in the Appendix of this presentation.
Turning to Slide 3 we want to remind you that today's presentation includes non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures are important indicators of our operations as they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to results from our ongoing business operations.
We also think that the adjusted measures will provide you with a better baseline for analyzing trends in our ongoing business operation.
Listeners are directed to the Appendix section of our presentation beginning on Slide 41 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP items to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
With that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Good morning everyone and thank you again for joining us today.
As you saw in our earning release from earlier this morning our actions in 2012 have delivered a record year of margin expansion.
If you recall in October 2011 we outlined several business priorities and accompanying actions that we said we would execute throughout 2012 to improve our operating margins and lower our fixed cost.
These included realizing cost-based pricing actions an increased level of new product innovation driving enhanced mix reducing our fixed cost structure and delivering ongoing cost productivity from our global operating programs.
And as a result this last quarter marks the fourth consecutive quarter of year-over-year ongoing business operations margin expansion and for the full year generates strong levels of underlying free cash flow.
These actions and this momentum combined with favorable trends that we see in U.S.
housing and growth opportunities that we see in emerging markets have created positive momentum as we have headed into 2013.
Our full year results are summarized on Slide 6 and you'll see overall revenues were up approximately 3% excluding the impact of foreign currency and BEFIEX as our strong price and mix continued throughout the year.
And in line with our previously increased guidance diluted earnings per share from ongoing business operations improved $5 per share to $7.05 for 2012 compared to $2.05 in the prior year.
Our underlying cash flow generation from ongoing business operations also improved significantly year-over-year by over $550 million.
Turning to Slide 7 and 8 we highlight our business priorities for 2013 and how we expect them to impact our results.
These priorities are well aligned with our long-term growth strategy and build upon the success and the foundation we've built in 2012.
For the year we expect our ongoing business performance and margins to continue to improve as we launch new product innovations accelerate growth and higher-margin adjacent businesses continue our expansion in emerging markets realize additional benefits from our cost and capacity reduction initiatives and execute our ongoing cost productivity programs.
We believe these positive drivers will more than offset the expected increases in material and oil-related costs.
We also expect to see positive global demand as we outlined on Slide 9.
In the U.S.
we expect demand to be up 2% to 3% for the year as we are increasingly optimistic about a more structural demand recovery and we do continue to see very positive trends in U.S.
housing.
In Brazil and other Latin America countries we continue to see strong underlying economic fundamentals and we're forecasting demand growth in the region from 3% to 5% for the year.
In Europe we're forecasting a flat industry for the full year as consumer confidence in the Eurozone remains weak within this still challenging economic environment.
And finally we expect a modest recovery and modest growth of 3% to 5% for Asia across the region for the full year.
Finally turning to Slide 10 we continue to execute these actions to expand our margins with enhanced price/mix through innovative products and our cost and capacity reductions.
Combined these actions along with the revenue growth we expect to deliver GAAP EPS in the range of $9.80 to $10.30 per share and overall positive free cash flow of $600 million to $650 million.
In our ongoing business operational guidance for 2013 is $9.25 a share to $9.75 per share and our cash flow from our ongoing operations is forecasted to be $950 million to $1 billion.
So at this point in time I'll turn it over to Marc Bitzer to review our North America operations.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Let me begin by reviewing North America's performance in the fourth quarter starting with Slide 12.
Our consistent and disciplined execution of the actions we laid out last year resulted in the fifth quarter of year-over-year ongoing business operations margin improvement.
And our operating margins exceeded 9% for the quarter.
A continued investment in innovation and a strong market execution drove a significant part of the improvement.
Cost productivity was also a positive driver as we more than offset material cost inflation in the fourth quarter.
Turning to Slide 13.
Net sales of $2.5 billion decreased 3% from last year as a weak economic environment continued in the U.S.
amid uncertainty with government policies.
Concerns over consumer reactions to the fiscal cliff loomed during the month of December and retailers responded by maintaining low inventory levels resulting in lower industry selling during the quarter.
As we have previously stated our priority has been and will be margin improvement.
We have increased our balance of sale in the higher-priced segments across most products driven by innovation as evidenced by our very strong positive mix.
Ongoing business operating profit was $233 million which more than doubled as compared to $106 million in 2011.
Overall ongoing business operating margin was up over 5 points year-over-year.
In addition to a very strong price and mix improvement the year-over-year progress was to a lesser extent driven by the benefit of our cost and capacity reduction initiatives as well as our ongoing cost productivity program.
Turning to Slide 14.
You can see just a few examples of our innovative products.
The small domestic appliance you see here is just an example of how we're growing our adjacent businesses.
Let me take a moment and talk briefly about North America in 2013 as shown on Slide 15.
We will remain focused on actions driving margin expansion including growing our high-end margin core and adjacent businesses continuing to deliver cost and capacity reduction initiatives and realizing positive net cost productivity.
As Jeff mentioned earlier we expect the U.S.
industry to increase 2% to 3% in 2013 as the market demand grows throughout the year.
We believe that consumers will remain cautious in the early part of the year as fallout of fiscal cliff negotiations are understood and budget debates continue in Washington.
As we continue the year we'll remain optimistic that the home building recovery and remodeling will continue to strengthen its momentum and that consumers will gain confidence as federal government policies become clearer.
Also the normal replacement cycle of appliance continues which is particularly important given the peak appliance industry years that occurred before the recession.
Let me just close with some comments on the recent ruling by the ITC on our anti-dumping petition.
Last week the U.S.
International Trade Commission or ITC confirmed an unanimous 6-0 vote that unlawful pricing by Samsung and LG caused injury to the U.S.
domestic appliance industry.
The positive vote was the ITC's final ruling in the anti-dumping investigation related to clothes washers from South Korea and Mexico.
As a result of the vote the U.S.
government will impose trade remedies on the imports of the unlawfully traded washers.
The decision is a great victory for the U.S.
appliance industry and is an important stride towards enforcing laws that enable a balanced competitive marketplace for U.S.
manufacturers employees and customers.
It is not yet clear how the competitor will respond to this decision and therefore it is difficult to fully gauge the commercial implications of this.
However we clearly said that in a level competitive playing field we are very well positioned to win.
With this in mind this decision is clearly a net positive for Whirlpool.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Mike for his review of our international operations.
Thanks Marc.
Turning to Slide 17.
Overall our international operations were led by strong performances in our Latin America and Asia regions as well as a return to profitability in Europe.
We delivered improved price and mix across all of our international business as we continue to launch consumer-relevant innovations in every product category around the world.
Productivity also drove favorable results as our ongoing cost productivity programs more than offset material cost inflation and currency for the quarter.
If you turn to Slide 18 you'll see our Latin America fourth quarter results.
Sales excluding currency and BEFIEX increased 14% on higher volumes and improved mix.
GAAP operating profit for the quarter totaled $134 million compared to $155 million in the prior year.
The year-over-year decline was driven primarily by lower monetization of tax credits.
On an adjusted basis excluding Brazilian tax credits our operating profit for the quarter totaled $119 million compared to $96 million a 24% improvement year-over-year.
Improved price mix and ongoing cost productivity programs more than offset the raw material inflation.
Turning to Slide 19 we saw good market demand in Brazil and a share gain in our core 3 appliances which are higher margin and contributed to our positive mix.
I now want to highlight a few points regarding our Latin America region.
On Slide 20 we compare a few economic indicators for 2 portions of our Latin American appliance business Brazil and what we referred to as LAR International.
As you can see LAR International which is made up of over 35 markets outside Brazil is comparable to Brazil in size GDP and number of households.
Our appliance business in these markets is approximately 1/3 of the size of our appliance business in Brazil but has been growing over the past few years.
Our Latin American international business continues to have a significant growth opportunity.
In fact we had record sales and operating profit in this portion of the business again this year.
In summary in addition to Brazil we also have an opportunity for growth and strong margin contribution in many other countries in Latin America and the Caribbean.
Slide 21 highlights the growth potential in our Latin American region given current penetration rates of appliances in Latin America compared to the United States.
Now turning to the fourth quarter results of Europe Middle East and Africa on Slide 22 we returned to profitability in the quarter driven by the actions we outlined last quarter.
The region had an operating profit of $8 million compared to a $32 million loss in the prior year period.
Favorable price/mix the benefits of cost and capacity reduction initiatives and ongoing cost productivity positively impacted results.
Our fourth quarter results in the Asia region are shown on Slide 23.
During the quarter we gained market share and expanded our margins across the region despite weak consumer demand material cost inflation and unfavorable currency.
Net sales increased 1% during the quarter to $203 million up from $200 million in the prior year period.
Excluding the impact of currency sales increased approximately 4%.
The region's operating profit was $7 million up from $2 million in the prior year due to favorable price and mix and ongoing cost productivity.
Slide 24 shows just a few examples of our new products in 2012.
To continue to capitalize on the growth -- on the opportunities for growth we expect to launch over 200 new products in our Latin America region alone in 2013.
Our international priorities are outlined on Slide 25.
In 2013 we expect to leverage new product launches and grow adjacent businesses continue cost and capacity reduction initiatives and execute ongoing cost productivity programs.
These actions combined with stabilization in Europe and growth opportunities in emerging markets have us well positioned to perform in 2013.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Larry Venturelli.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Let me start by making some comments on our fourth quarter results and then I'll transition to guidance for 2013.
Beginning on Slide 27 you'll note that we continued to deliver on our margin expansion initiatives.
For the quarter we had approximately a 400-basis-point improvement.
Ongoing operating profit margin increased to 6.5% driven by price/mix which is up approximately 4 points and resulted from both cost base price increases as well as favorable mix.
Another positive margin contributor has been benefits associated with our cost and capacity reduction program which contributed about 1 point of year-over-year margin improvement.
Material cost inflation was approximately $73 million.
As expected we saw cost productivity ramp up more than offsetting our material headwinds resulting in positive net cost productivity.
Overall our fourth quarter and full year margins were firmly on track with expectations.
Now turning to free cash flow on Slide 28.
We generated cash of $230 million compared to a free cash flow use of $55 million last year.
Adjusting for items impacting comparability our underlying ongoing business cash flow improved by over $550 million compared to last year largely driven by an improved margin structure.
Now let me spend a couple of minutes on some general topics embedded in our fourth quarter results.
Before I do that as a general reminder Slides 42 through 45 in the Appendix will provide you with a reconciliation of our reported GAAP operating profit and EPS to ongoing business operations.
As you can see we have removed the impact of restructuring expense and BEFIEX tax credits as well as the impacts from legal resolutions and an intangible impairment.
Turning back to the financial summary on Slides 29 and 30 let me provide a couple of observations.
It's important to note that net sales in constant currencies excluding BEFIEX credits were up approximately 2%.
Monetization of BEFIEX tax credits were $15 million compared to $59 million last year.
For the year $37 million of credits were recognized and at the end of the year $184 million remain.
Regarding interest and sundry expense in the quarter we recorded an expense of $17 million for antitrust resolutions.
This is adjusted from ongoing business operations to provide better clarity of our underlying business results.
Slide 31 illustrates expense associated with our cost and capacity reduction program.
We continue to expect our total program expense to be approximately $500 million through 2013.
The program is progressing very well and we delivered $227 million of benefit in 2012 and expect an additional $175 million of benefit in 2013 for a total of $400 million which is consistent with our previous guidance.
As Jeff introduced earlier on the call our 2013 guidance is shown on Slide 32.
We expect to deliver annual GAAP diluted EPS in the range of $9.80 to $10.30 per share and annual ongoing business operations EPS of $9.25 to $9.75.
Our 2013 free cash flow guidance is $600 million to $650 million.
To provide further clarity and comparability between our GAAP guidance and our ongoing business operation guidance we have included a table on Slide 33 which I'd like to provide some comments and perspective on.
Consistent with 2012 we will continue to adjust GAAP EPS for both BEFIEX tax credits and restructuring expenses.
As you recall in October 2011 we announced the largest restructuring program in company history.
Restructuring expense is expected to be $185 million or $1.75 per share this year.
In 2013 we expect to monetize approximately $60 million to $70 million of BEFIEX tax credits.
Lastly recent legislation in the U.S.
has extended the energy tax credit program.
You'll note that our 2013 GAAP earnings guidance includes $120 million in energy credits.
We will continue to exclude these from our ongoing business operations.
Our 2013 ongoing tax rate guidance is 24% and 2013 GAAP tax rate guidance is 9%.
And this primarily reflects the energy tax credits.
On Slide 34 we highlight the main drivers of our expected year-over-year ongoing business operating performance improvement.
During 2013 we expect 1 point of margin improvement from price/mix largely driven from the mix impact of innovative new product launches and adjacent business growth; approximately 1 point of margin from our cost and capacity reduction program.
We also expect to deliver approximately 0.5 point of margin expansion from our normal cost productivity and this includes fully offsetting approximately $150 million to $200 million of year-over-year material cost headwinds.
And finally higher marketing and technology investments are expected to reduce margins by approximately 1 point during 2013.
On Slide 35 you'll note we generated $230 million in free cash flow during 2012 and are guiding to $600 million to $650 million largely driven by cash earnings.
It is important to note that we now expect the bulk of our restructuring program cash outflow during 2013 as well as higher capital spending which is expected to be $600 million to $650 million compared to approximately $475 million in 2012.
The underlying ongoing business operations free cash flow we are generating through operations takes into account short-lived cash requirements and continues to be close to $1 billion.
Before I close I want to discuss our short-term cash allocation priorities outlined on Slide 36 which include funding the business including capital expenditures; debt maturities and pension contributions; return to shareholders; and M&amp;A.
We are planning to refinance our $500 million 5.5% long-term debt which matures on March 1 in the public debt markets.
Now I'll turn it back over to Jeff.
Thanks Larry.
Well let me summarize.
I'll start with Slide 38.
Overall we were pleased with the performance and progress that we made in 2012.
We delivered record margin expansion across our global business which in turn generated very strong underlying free cash flow.
These actions as I mentioned combined with what we see are positive trends in U.S.
housing and our growth in emerging markets do position us well coming into the year.
Our actions have clearly produced the expected results and we remain committed to delivering at least 8% operating margins by 2014.
Turning to Slide 39 I am confident in the opportunities that we see to grow the business worldwide.
And these opportunities in summary will come through: appliance growth in new and emerging markets; our stepped up in investment in the consumer-relevant innovations; our expansion into higher-margin faster-growing adjacent businesses; and advancement of our overall global product leadership.
So we continue to make great progress on our road map for growth with our great brands and great products.
And more importantly we're performing at levels that will continue to create value for our shareholders.
So with that I'm going to conclude our formal remarks and open it up to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question listening from the site of Ken Zener with KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> Can you address the trends in 2013 Marc? And I think you were touching like why investors shouldn't be concerned about the North American GAAP volume that you guys are reporting for say AHAM 6 so negative 5 versus negative 2 in the fourth quarter.
And talk about North American margins and your view on discounting in 2013.
You guys said you'd be discounting it's part of the landscape but it's going to be disciplined.
If you can expand on those 2 comments.
Ken its Marc Bitzer.
So let me try to break it out into 2 pieces the volume and I think you had a question about the Q4 2012 industry volume [indiscernible] then I come to discounting.
First of all on the Q4 volumes I would say overall the full year industry volume in Q4 largely came within the range of what we've guided to provided in the previous quarters.
Slightly below.
We always had 0 to minus 2.
Full year industry was minus 2.3.
That was largely driven by a weaker-than-expected December.
As I mentioned before the trade sale in December was pretty low.
Everybody took inventory down.
Probably a lot had to do with the uncertainty coming out of Washington.
But I would say overall at the very low end of our guidance.
And the only -- if at all [indiscernible] December 1.
On our 2013 guidance Jeff indicated and I indicated it's a plus 2% to plus 3% which we expect to build throughout the year.
We expect some uncertainty in the market certainly in the first quarter depending on the whole fiscal cliff discussion.
But the underlying trends remain robust.
The housing trends is I would say in a very healthy shape.
If you look at the housing starts very positive trends the completion are meant -- just a definition of time about 6 to 8 months later.
That is a strong momentum.
I also referred to what is still a very important part of our business replacement cycle.
You're basically cycling now against almost a peak of the appliance demand in 2004 and 2005 and that is also an underlying growth driver.
So we're pretty confident behind this plus 2% to plus 3%.Now on your comments on the discounts.
I was referring to our course has been and will be margin expansion.
And as such we kind of -- I mean I can only comment on our Q4.
We don't make forward comments on planned promotions on Q4.
We'll stay the course.
We participated when there was value creation and we did not participate when there was no value creation for us.
And that is the course you will see.
Research Division</strong> And then my second question some of the recent analysis that we've done in terms of modeling forward demand if AHAM 6 is around 36 million units in 2012 we kind of forecasted a rate of 42 million units in 2015.
And what surprised us is starts were to be normalizing towards 1.5 million units.
Approximately half of that growth of 3 million units would have -- would come from new construction.
And I believe you guys have roughly a 40% share there; GE 45%.
So if our analysis what I described is correct could you kind of describe the operating leverage that you're going to see and why this wouldn't result in meaningful growth for Whirlpool North America above the industry shipments? Yes.
Ken this is Larry.
A couple of things.
Certainly during this time period the recessionary time period we've taken down our fixed cost structure significantly.
We're very well positioned as volume comes back from a leverage perspective.
So on an incremental margin perspective you're probably thinking about -- if you think about 90% of our cost of goods sold approximately is variable and 40% is SG&amp;A we'd have a nice volume leverage as volume comes back.
And as Marc indicated certainly the housing completions and existing home sales are a stimulus for us combined with the increased share we've had over the last couple of years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess just wondering if I -- one more question.
On the marketing technology and product innovations that we see in 2013 the 100 basis points is that a normalized rate of investment that we should think about that needs to be met by positives such as price/mix cost and productivity? Well again as we outlined we are stepping up investments in -- beginning with our new product introductions.
So our -- both capital and technology investments because we're getting paid for these in the marketplace.
Innovation sells and that's -- that's our view of how to grow faster and win in the marketplace is through product innovation not through price cutting.
So that's one.
Two brand investment.
With new products you need to through all the different mediums communicate to consumers.
And we're at a level where we're going to increase that substantially.
And our systems investment is really to help us drive productivity through our global operations.
So it's not -- we have a lot of levers that will offset that increased investment but it's a combination of continued PMR; getting paid for innovation; the restructuring which we're completely on track to delivery; and we're very optimistic we're going to have positive net productivity.
So we're balancing all those expanding our margins growing our business.
If the market is better we'll do better.
And we'll take our next question listening from the site of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question I had was on the productivity and material cost guidance for the upcoming year.
Little surprised with the expectation for that $150 million to $250 million headwind in the materials given right now at least both steel and oil are tracking down year-over-year as we end the year.
So I was wondering if you could give commentary around that? And also the productivity side if that offset is being driven more by volume leverage? If that's what's included as part of that productivity? Or if there are incremental actions more like kind of cost actions that also help that productivity offset? Yes Michael.
This is Jeff.
Our guidance of $150 million to $250 million it is still more inflation of raw materials lower than we've had obviously the last 2 years.
But if you look at our main drivers of raw materials are steel resins base metals strategic components and so on and I'd add currency because we've had a currency impact on this as well.
So we feel pretty good about our position going in the year.
Resins are much higher and have a material impact as well as some of the strategic components and currency.
So this is a balance.
We think it's a fair snapshot for where we are right here.
It is a lot of inflation given the global environment but we're -- we've been pretty accurate in tracking these things over the last couple of years.
As it relates to productivity the lion's share -- we have very little volume built into our cost productivity because even last year we're -- we had dampened production levels as we both dealt with market demand a negative situation in some key regions as well as managing very tightly our inventory.
So there is a very small amount of volume built into that.
It is largely through our cost programs; lean manufacturing; product redesign process and a supply chain optimization that we're very confident in our ability to drive productivity which will offset this and contribute to our margins.
Research Division</strong> So if the cost productivity doesn't include volume leverage is that just a source of upside to margins relative to your guidance? As I said if we have better demand it'll affect us both in the top line and it'll affect us on the productivity level.
And if we have higher demand than what we're showing we'll do better.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then just a clarification on 4Q results.
I think it was referred to before that your shipments were down 5% versus negative 2% in the quarter for the AHAM 6.
Is that correct? And how are you thinking about your shipments versus the industry for 2013? Michael it's Marc Bitzer.
And again what is correct from these numbers are year-over-year volume and market share has been down.
However if you compare it to Q3 we basically had an essentially market share with Q3.
And given that Q4 is typically a quarter where you have higher promotion because of the holiday period and given our policy to expand margin as the out course I actually feel pretty comfortable that it's a steady market share coming out of Q3 and Q4.
And also if you peel back the onion we actually have pretty good share gains in the higher-end segments where we have a lot of innovation and we feel very good about it.
And as usual we can't give a market share forecast for next year that is driven by a number of factors but we will stay our overall course here.
Next to the site of Sam Darkatsh with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two primary questions.
One the last time that the energy tax credit program was in effect whether this is related or unrelated your inventories swelled.
And I'm noticing that you have a very large productivity expectation for 2013.
What should we expect inventories to do by year end? And how much of your productivity that you're factoring in comes from trying to maximize these credits from a production standpoint? Sam this is Larry.
A couple of things to keep in consideration.
We are not building inventory for energy tax credits.
These appliances these high-efficiency appliances have very quick -- have very low days of inventory.
They're some of the fastest-selling products in the marketplace.
Our productivity is based on what we normally do in each and every year to generate productivity.
And year-end inventories I would say I would expect our year-end inventories to be right around where they're at this time next year as where they ended up in December.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And my next question you mentioned 1 point of price/mix expected for '13.
I think you might have said mostly mix.
If we were to go around by region how would that differ regionally that 1 point? We expect to see positive price/mix everywhere Sam.
Think of it this way.
There's really 3 drivers again this is as of where we are today.
We've got some good carryover coming over from last year from actions we took throughout the year.
We clearly are seeing positive mix with better margins virtually everywhere and that should continue because we continue to -- or we're ramping up our launches we're ramping up our investment so we expect that piece to continue.
And in our high-inflation or high-devaluation markets we've already announced such as Brazil and India and a few others new price increases this year to cope for the kind of inflation we're seeing in this market.
So it's a combination of all.
But we expect positive price/mix everywhere.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And as a follow-up Jeff I know last year you were real demonstrative and still remain so that price and margin expansion will supersede market share.
Should we then read your comments today you are every bit as resolute going forward? Or is market share going to be a bit more of an important factor for you going forward than it was last year? Sam our primary objective is create value.
There's been a number of questions about market share.
We had some what I would describe as marginal market share losses primarily around the area where we had significant large appropriate cost-based price increases last year.
Everybody's got their own objectives and I can't speak for others.
I would just say that it is not abnormal for us to lose some market share during those periods of time.
I would say that we have gained market share where we've wanted which is in higher-value innovation-driven areas.
We're not in the business to chase market share based on price.
We try to earn it with customers every day and I guess I'm -- we're very pleased with what we're doing in earning our market share in areas that create value.
Next to the site of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
Two things.
First of all in terms of the environment obviously you're focus in '12 works being more focused on margin and a little bit less focused on share but certainly aware of share.
I'm just interested in how 4Q played out.
And as you're having discussions with your customers and in the channel in 2013 if you feel like that stance of the environment is going to be different? 2012 is a year obviously where it was much less promotional and that helped.
How do you feel or what do you see within what retailers are wanting to do competitively in 2013 in that area? Eric it probably varies a little bit but not a lot around the world.
This -- and I'll take the U.S.
for example.
This industry got into a lot of trouble when there was a recovery in early 2010 a lot of it by stimulus-driven things off of a low base.
And we had very fast volume recovery.
And then it stopped.
And then a very negative reaction in terms of aggressive promotions and price discounting at levels never seen before in this industry.
And there was tremendous value destroyed at every level.
Manufacture retail et cetera.
And the background is it didn't change demand at all.
And so as we said 2 years ago we're in the appropriate level of promotion that makes sense with the business to offer values in the marketplace and so on.
But the kind of stuff we saw earlier I don't see us -- there's no economic value to doing that.
It does not attract demand.
We're still in a largely replacement market.
Even with housing coming back that's a new construction market.
I would say the weakest part of the market in between is the pure discretionary.
So it isn't like we're in an environment where people are coming to the marketplace because they see a discount or a price promotion.
They're coming to the marketplace because they need a new product.
And so we're -- we kind of see a -- the focus you will see from us is largely built around letting consumers know about our new products.
And I think that's the way to attract customers in the marketplace in this kind of environment.
Okay.
Secondly the volume expectation for '13 up 2% to 3% in North America is a material improvement for what we saw in '12.
Housing seems robust in '12 and seems robust in '13.
What's different in '13 that allows the category to perform much better with what looks to be a similar new housing environment? Eric it's Marc.
Yes with plus 2% to 3% it seems different than this year.
In the grander scheme of things it's still on a very low absolute level and we're still far far away from the peak levels where we -- which we experienced in 2006 2007.
Again as I said before I think despite the uncertainty which was driven a little bit around consumer and trade confidence towards the end of the year which will have some spillover off into Q1 there's a couple of underlying drivers which are just healthy and strong.
One is the housing.
Keep also this one in mind we are in the housing completion side not necessarily in the housing starts side.
The housing completions in 2012 are still very low below 600.
By the starts now come right into the market.
I mean many people expect housing starts next year to be between 950 970.
So you add -- you took maybe 6 months or 8 months completion.
You can do the math.
I mean it's still various momentums building the market and the housing side.
And if you further zoom out our business is not only driven by the new housing.
Existing homes is still the #1 driver for appliance sales.
Inventories are low.
We're probably more supply constrained right now.
We expect the inventories -- or supply coming back into the market and that gives us a healthy confidence in existing home sales.
And the third element which is really maybe one of the most important one and particular that it is still in a replacement market we are cycling against the peak demand levels of 2002 to 2005.
So you add your typical 10 years "life of an appliance" in there you are entering now some pretty healthy replacement cycles.
So you put all of these 3 factors together that has us lead a very strong momentum in the market.
Now it maybe dampened in the short term by some consumer confidence issues but it doesn't structurally change our view on a slow but very steady recovery of industry demand.
And then one follow-up.
You spoke earlier of the incremental marketing technology product investment the 1-point margin hit in '13.
Could you just explain a little bit better? It seemed like you've been make investments in these areas in the past.
Is there a reason or a little bit better color for why it's such a material step up in '13 which seem to be a reasonable level of investment in the past? Well Eric I would say we have had reasonable levels.
But number one we've never had as many new products to come in the marketplace.
And so as I said earlier I think letting consumers know about a lot of this innovation is a value-creating activity.
So we have higher capital and higher brand and market launch expense which I see is a very good investment.
The systems investment which is not trivial is to further help us on the productivity side.
So we line all these up against returns.
Okay? And so if we don't see the returns coming we'll scale them back.
But we think these are healthy investments for the business.
They will accelerate our revenue growth in the right areas therefore margins.
And this gets us at a level where we think is commensurate with the kind of things we bring in the marketplace.
Time for one more question.
We'll take that final questions from the site of David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
Just back to the whole discussion with operating leverage for a second.
Can you just update us on where your capacity utilization rates are in North America and Latin America? David we've had this discussion before.
It's really hard to give you an exact number there.
I would say -- let's take North America for example.
We resized the North America capacity to be profitable at 2011 2012 demand levels.
And in many cases that's running 1 or maximum 2 shifts 5 days a week.
Okay? So on that basis there's a capacity utilization.
But the reality and I think probably the relevant question here is if we see an uptick in demand or a significant change in demand can we respond to it profitably? And the answer is absolutely yes.
We've ran some of these facilities back in 2006 and '07 24/7.
And so we have substantial upside capacity without any major investment or -- probably the biggest constraint to upside is just getting the rest of the supply chain ready for it which we work on all the time.
So I have -- the way I look at capacity utilization today is we're very profitable at today's levels and we can go up.
In Latin America there as we've had nice growth for a number of years we have had some capacity constraint issues that we continue to address through very targeted and focused investments.
So it's something we -- I mean we're -- our asset utilization and the management of assets and capital is something that's on everyday here.
And so basically that's where we are.
Okay.
On Latin America Mike made the observation that you were looking to grow in the non-Brazilian markets.
Is that largely distribution? Can you do that with the brands you have now? Is it organic? Or do you have to make acquisitions? No David.
It is largely through distribution.
Our brands we market both the Whirlpool brand and KitchenAid brand in those markets and the fact of the matter is they're very well received.
We've started to increase our investment in new product innovations in those markets and we're starting to see it take.
So we feel pretty good that just through investment and more distribution we can significantly increase our share.
Okay.
Final question just you talk a lot about the innovation and the growth that comes along with that which is very encouraging but you're also exiting some underperforming business as well as I understand or at least some underperforming SKUs.
Can you just talk about the exiting underperforming SKUs as a drag on revenue growth next year? Is it a couple of points? Is it less than that? No David.
We've got -- we made an awful lot of progress in 2012.
I mean basically we want to sell products for a profit.
And if it doesn't hit that criteria we either fix it change it or quit selling it.
And so yes the lion's share of the marginal market share loss that we had is -- probably would fall under the categories of unprofitable businesses to sell it.
And but our view is not to quit selling it's to get better products get better costs that sort of thing.
So it's kind of an ongoing assessment and cleansing process.
But fundamentally we are -- we believe great products sell.
And if they truly are great products we will get paid for them.
And so revenue growth without profit is not a big interest to us.
Sounds like we -- I was the last question.
You got a couple of minutes to go to the hour.
Let me just ask you if you'd consider a share split? David anything like that or a return to shareholder or anything else is something that we would -- we ongoing have discussions and dialogues with our board.
And if anything like that would happen it'd be a board decision.
So listen everyone thank you for joining us today.
We really appreciate your questions on the call and we look forward to updating you the next time we get together.
Thank you very much.
And this concludes today's program.
Have a great day.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to Whirlpool Corporation's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Senior Director of Investor Relations Joe Lovechio.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Whirlpool Corporation First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Joining me today are Jeff Fettig our Chairman and CEO; Mike Todman President of Whirlpool International; Marc Bitzer President of Whirlpool North America; and Larry Venturelli our Chief Financial Officer.
Our remarks today track with the presentation available on the Investors section of our website at whirlpoolcorp.com.
Before we begin let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements to assist you in understanding Whirlpool Corporation's future expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially from these statements due to many factors discussed in our latest 8-K 10-K and 10-Q as well as in the Appendix of this presentation.
Turning to Slide 3 we want to remind you that today's presentation includes non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures are important indicators of our operations as they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to results from our ongoing business operation.
We also think that the adjusted measures will provide you with a better baseline for analyzing trends in our ongoing business operation.
Listeners are directed to the Appendix section of our presentation beginning on Slide 31 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP items to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
With that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
As you saw in our earnings release from earlier this morning our first quarter results were in line with our expectations as we continue to expand our margins and improve our operating results.
We are on track to deliver our operating profit margin EPS and free cash flow guidance for 2013 primarily due to the strong execution of our business priorities.
We've outlined these priorities over the last several quarters and they remain unchanged.
We expect to realize cost-based pricing actions.
We continue to introduce mix-enhancing new product innovation and products.
We continue to reduce our fixed cost structure.
And we're delivering on ongoing cost productivity programs.
The first quarter results marked the fifth consecutive quarter of year-over-year ongoing business operations margin expansions and we expect continued margin expansion higher revenue growth and higher cash generation as we progress throughout the year.
If you turn to Slide 6 you can see our first quarter results are summarized there.
As expected excluding the impact of foreign currency and BEFIEX our revenues were essentially flat versus the first quarter of last year.
Our diluted earnings per share from ongoing business operations improved $0.56 per share or 40% to $1.97 compared to the $1.41 last year.
And first quarter cash flow usage improved from last year and we are on track to meet our full year guidance as cash generation ramps up during the second half of the year.
Turning to Slide 7.
You can see our global industry demand assumptions which we believe are -- continue to be -- will be positive for the full year.
Overall our outlook remains unchanged as we expect to see moderately higher growth going forward due to the strength of U.S.
housing and improving demand trends internationally.
In North America we expect industry demand to be up 2% to 3% as we continue to see the positive trends in housing and we see this becoming even more structurally strong during the second half of this year.
For Brazil and other Latin American countries we're forecasting industry demand growth ranging from 3% to 5%.
In Europe we still expect a flat industry for the full year as weak economic environment continues across the Eurozone.
And finally we're forecasting moderate growth of 3% to 5% in Asian regions.
At this point in time I'll turn it over to Marc Bitzer to review in more detail our North America operations.
Thanks Jeff and good morning to everyone.
Let me begin on Slide 9 by reviewing North America's performance in the first quarter starting with the top line.
First of all if you recall in December of last year U.S.
retailers' concern over consumer reaction to a fiscal cliff maintained very low inventory levels.
On this first quarter 2013 retailers increased their inventory levels particularly driven by addition of brands in their stores.
The result was that industry sell-in was quite a bit better than sell-through for the quarter.
Industry sell-through for the quarter was actually in line with our expectations and our full year industry guidance of plus 2% to plus 3%.
As expected our market share was down versus last year as we comped against our highest market share quarter of last year.
Sequentially however compared to Q4 our market share was up.
Out of U.S.
we saw continued industry demand softness in Canada and Mexico and as a result our net sales of $2.2 billion for North America were essentially flat from last year.
We do expect however higher revenue growth as we progress throughout the year.
As we have previously stated our priority has been and will remain margin expansion.
Our operating margins were 9.7% for the quarter and operating profit was $218 million as compared to $151 million in 2012.
Overall our operating margins expanded by 3 points year-over-year.
Strong market execution and innovative consumer products continue to drive increase in price and mix and the benefit of our cost and capacity reduction initiative was also positive driver in the first quarter.
The consistent and disciplined execution of our actions resulted in a sixth quarter of year-over-year ongoing business operations margin improvement.
Turning to Slide 10.
You can see just a few examples of our innovative products: the Whirlpool Gold refrigerator the new Jenn-Air Accolade ventilation system and the Maytag Maxima XL front-load steam washer.
Let me just take a moment to talk about our expectation for the rest of the year as shown on Slide 11.
Q1 was in line with our expectations and we expect revenue growth to build throughout the year.
And with regard to the industry demand as we continue the year we remain optimistic about the continued strength in U.S.
housing and the consumers' regained confidence as federal government policies become clearer.
And also the normal replacement cycle of appliance continues which is particularly important given the peak appliance industry years that occurred well before the recession.
With regard to our business priorities we remain focused on action driving margin expansion including investing innovative new products continuing to deliver cost and capacity reduction initiatives realizing positive net cost productivity and growing beyond our core product categories.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Mike for his review of international operations.
Thanks Marc.
Turning to Slide 13.
Overall our international operations were led by another strong performance in our Latin America region as margins continue to expand.
Our Europe Middle East and Africa region was negatively impacted by the continued weak environment across the Eurozone.
In Asia we gained market share and drove favorable product price and mix which was offset by unfavorable currency a weaker industry and higher material costs.
If you turn to Slide 14 you'll see our Latin America first quarter results.
Sales excluding currency and BEFIEX increased 2% on improved pricing and mix but lower volumes.
As you recall Q1 last year was the first full quarter of the IPI tax holiday in Brazil.
Beginning in February of this year the IPI tax holiday changed making Q1 the toughest industry comp.
We expect industry demand to grow from here.
GAAP operating profit for the quarter totaled $130 million compared to $121 million in the prior year.
The year-over-year increase was driven by higher monetization of tax credits but on an adjusted basis excluding Brazilian BEFIEX tax credits our operating profit for the quarter which totaled $114 million was equal to the prior year.
Improved product price and mix offsetting higher material costs and unfavorable currency continue to drive margin expansion again this quarter as our ongoing business operating margin increased 0.5 point to 9.6%.
Our first quarter results of Europe Middle East and Africa on Slide 15 reflect the very challenging market environment in the Eurozone.
First quarter sales decreased 3% year-over-year to $668 million.
Foreign currency did not have a significant impact on net sales compared to last year.
The region had an operating loss of $8 million compared to a $4 million profit in the prior year period.
Weak demand and country mix as well as higher material costs more than offset benefits from cost and capacity reduction initiatives.
Also note that Q1 is historically our lowest volume quarter of the year.
Given the current economic conditions we continue to evaluate demand and assess additional cost reduction actions required to adjust for demand.
Our first quarter results in the Asia region are shown on Slide 16.
Net sales decreased 8% during the quarter to $187 million down from $202 million in the prior year period.
Excluding the impact of currency sales decreased approximately 4% as we saw weaker industry demand particularly in India.
The region's operating profit was $3 million down from $9 million in the prior year.
Market share gains and favorable product price and mix from new product innovation were more than offset by weaker industry demand unfavorable currency and higher material cost.
Slide 17 shows a few examples of our international product leadership in the first quarter and how we continue to capitalize on the opportunities for growth.
We've highlighted the Whirlpool brand Stainwasher in India Brazil brand's Ative! dishwasher and an induction oven in Europe for the Whirlpool and Bauknecht brands.
On Slide 18 in 2013 we expect improving demand trends in emerging markets throughout the year.
Latin America is expected to ramp throughout the year due to the strong underlying fundamentals in the region.
For Asia we see current strengthening in China and India improving throughout the year.
And we continue to focus on our business priorities which are leveraging new product launches and growing beyond our core businesses continuing cost and capacity reduction initiatives and executing ongoing cost productivity programs.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Larry Venturelli.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Our first quarter results are consistent with expectations entering the year and have us on plan to deliver our annual guidance which we are reconfirming today.
On Slide 20 you can see we expect to deliver annual GAAP EPS in the range of $9.80 to $10.30 per share and annual ongoing business operations of $9.25 to $9.75 per share.
Our 2013 free cash flow is expected to be in the range of $600 million to $650 million.
Slides 31 through 39 in the Appendix provide you with a reconciliation of our reported GAAP operating profit and EPS to ongoing business operations for both 2013 and 2012.
Turning back to Slide 21.
You will note that we continued to deliver on our margin expansion initiatives for the first quarter driving a 130 basis point improvement in operating profit margin.
Ongoing operating profit margin increased to 6.6% during the quarter driven by price mix which was up 1.5 points and we continue to expect to realize approximately 1 point for the year.
Our cost and capacity reduction program contributed another point consistent with our full year guidance.
As expected net cost productivity was slightly negative as material cost inflation was $46 million during the quarter.
Our cost productivity is on track to ramp up throughout the year fully offsetting approximately $150 million to $200 million of year-over-year material cost inflation and is expected to deliver a positive 0.5 point of margin for 2013.
In addition as planned we increased our marketing technology and product investments during the quarter reducing margins by less than 1 point.
Overall our first quarter margins were firmly on track with expectations and consistent with our expected full year improvement.
Moving to the financial summary on Slide 22.
As expected reported net sales were $4.2 billion compared to $4.3 billion last year.
Excluding the impact of both foreign currency and BEFIEX sales were flat to the prior year.
As Jeff Mike and Marc mentioned we expect revenue growth to progress throughout the year.
Monetization of BEFIEX tax credits were $16 million compared to $7 million last year.
As of March 31 $177 million in BEFIEX tax credits remain.
Turning to Slide 23.
The income tax benefit in this quarter primarily relates to the recognition of $84 million for the U.S.
energy tax credit program related to 2012 and Q1 2013 production.
As we noted previously our 2013 full year GAAP earnings guidance includes $120 million of expected benefit from the U.S.
energy tax credits.
Our full year 2013 ongoing tax rate assumption remains 24% and our GAAP tax rate assumption adjusted primarily for energy tax credits remains 9% for the year.
The graph on Slide 24 illustrates expenses associated with our cost and capacity reduction program.
We continue to expect our program expense to be approximately $185 million this year and the program remains on track to deliver $175 million of benefit in 2013.
On Slide 25 you see our cash flow priorities remain funding the business including capital expenditures debt maturities and pension contributions return to shareholders and M&amp;A.
This month we raised our annual dividend by 25% to $2.50 per share and we continue to evaluate M&amp;A opportunities and share repurchases.
During the quarter S&amp;P upgraded our credit rating to BBB marking solid progress toward returning our credit ratings to prerecession levels.
We will continue to balance funding all aspects of our business to ensure the best long-term value creation for our shareholders.
Now I'll turn it back over to Jeff.
Turning to Slide 27.
I would summarize by saying that we are on track to deliver our operating margins our EPS and free cash flow goals for 2013.
We will continue to invest in innovative consumer solutions for the home.
We do expect higher revenue growth with the continued strength we're seeing in U.S.
housing and improving demand trends internationally.
And we do remain focused on delivering at least 8% operating profit margins during 2014.
Finally turning to Slide 28 I would just say that we are confident in the opportunities that we have for revenue growth and cash generation as we progress throughout the year.
These revenue growth opportunities will come through new and emerging markets; our consumer-relevant innovations which are going very well; our expansion into higher margin faster growing adjacent businesses which are growing at good rates; and the advancement of our overall global product leadership position.
We have been and we expect to continue to perform at levels that will create more value for our shareholders.
So with this I'll stop our formal remarks and then open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And with that we'll take our first question from the line of Sam Darkatsh.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First off I apologize if this was in the prepared remarks and I missed it was there market share commentary around Latin America and Europe? I missed it if there was.
Sam this is Mike.
No I didn't make market share commentary but in Latin America actually our market share was stable so we maintained.
And in Europe actually we saw a slight increase in our market share.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my primary question you said that you're expecting sales growth to build as the year progresses in North America and Latin America.
Could you decompose that a bit into units versus price mix as the year progresses? And then the follow-up to that would be how do you see share market share playing out in the United States particularly if industry pricing gets a little bit more challenging? Yes Sam this is Jeff.
Let me maybe take that at a global level.
First of all we had -- our Q1 revenues were basically flat when you take out foreign currency.
And we've been -- the big currency devaluations happened in March and early April of last year so we kind of anniversary-ed those things.
And given today's currency levels that should not be a drag on revenues.
The second thing I would say is if you step back and look at the global appliance business at a global level largely speaking Q1 was probably marginally slightly better or slightly worse than it's been in the last 6 to 9 months meaning there's been no real material change in the global market.
The individual markets there's been a lot of change some up some down.
So we're kind of tracking at the rate we've been.
The activities we've been putting in place have been expanding margins and we continue to ramp up investments in new product innovation.
So our comments are that with revenues in essence being flat in the first quarter we do expect revenue growth to begin to ramp up as we go out through the year.
If you look at our demand forecast you can see that largely speaking we still expect it to be positive.
And I think you will see our new product innovations working well in the marketplace.
So that's why we're sitting here today feeling good about our revenue growth opportunities.
Specifically North America I'll let Marc speak to that.
Hey Sam it's Marc Bitzer.
And I made an earlier comment about the revenue growth which we're expecting.
And first of all as you know we are not giving revenue or price mix guidance by region certainly not.
So let me try to be vague within the guardrails.
First of all on revenue growth I wouldn't say I expect it if we don't see trends supporting that and if we don't have a strong degree of confidence that revenue growth will materialize and we're very confident.
Obviously in particular as you compare year-over-year revenue numbers and also as you keep in mind we're cycling through several price increases mix changes the baseline of comparisons change.
And as such the price-volume equation by definition will change.
That's just a reflection of baseline and what we're doing about this one.
I think the important thing and that's what's probably implicit in your question is based on the past industry trends we have not changed our view on promotional policy.
We feel based on what happened in the first quarter that our view has been confirmed as evidenced by these operating margins.
I'd also said that we remain committed to our strong margins and margin expansion and we -- and that has also been evident in Q4 and Q1.
We're playing now with more and more levers.
In the past year we played strongly in the price margins now it's price margin and cost and we're increasing -- also we'll have volume opportunities and that ultimately will support our margin expansion.
Sam let me give you a little bit of color on Latin America.
If we just remember and I had this in the prepared remarks the first quarter was the toughest comp quarter for Latin America.
And so in general the industry is down because it was up so high last year because of the IPI tax -- the first quarter of the IPI tax introduction and then the change in IPI tax.
But our expectation is that the demand environment in Brazil in fact is going to grow.
And we're already seeing that in April as we begin to comp over slightly lower numbers from last year and we see positive trends in the economic environment.
One other comment Sam this is Larry if you look at the guidance we provided throughout the year which everybody is reiterating today if you look at just the industry guidance by itself would indicate 2.5% approximately improvement in unit volume which would translate into at least that amount of sales for the year to answer your question.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
If I could sneak one more in here real quick.
Marc you mentioned that U.S.
POS was less than that of the sell-in.
Do you anticipate a bit of a correction or a softer Q2 as a result of that versus what we saw in Q1 for the industry? Let me first -- Sam it's Marc again -- first reexplain what I mentioned about Q1.
As we entered the first quarter the industry -- or the trade inventory levels were low.
I would say unusually low and that was largely driven by the uncertainty which was around the fiscal cliff and everything else in December.
As the quarter progressed I would say both consumer and trade confidence particularly trade confidence increased and inventory levels went up coupled -- or I would say particularly also driven there.
As you know there have been some retail landscape changes and there were some new brands and floors which always drives some initial load inventory.
That's just the nature of whenever you have new flooring.
That was an unusual Q1 effect.
The underlying sell-through data which as you know there is no solid source available but we have a pretty good sense about this one is I would say almost spot on what we had in mind for our full year guidance.
I also see that pretty stable to maybe slightly increasing as the year progresses and for Q2 it feels stable right now.
I mean compared to the Q1 trends not stable in absolute terms.
We'll take our next question from the line of Eric Bosshard.
Curious for you to speak a little bit more.
You clearly are committed to making great progress on margins.
I'm interested in how you're thinking about market share relative to that.
I know you've talked in the past of some decisions you've made on market share relative to margin.
But interested in how you're thinking your commitment to that.
And then also within the market share performance if you're seeing changes at any different piece of the market at the high end relative to the low end within your performance and if you have different strategies or thoughts about defending or pursuing market share across the portfolio specifically talking about North America.
Eric again it's Marc Bitzer.
First of all just to provide facts as I indicated already our Q1 market share was year-over-year down and sequentially slightly up which pretty much confirms our current trends and the decisions which we've taken in Q4.
And obviously I can't give a quarterly guidance on market share but let me try to maybe put it more in generic terms.
The way how we look at market share is there's a certain portion -- the biggest portion of our market share which I call it everyday earned in the trade's local grade products.
As you can imagine we're exceptionally committed to grade and innovative products to earn that every day and we will work incredibly hard to never let that go.
There's another portion of the market which is call it promotion market share which sometimes is a little bit like quicksand and you need to make a decision a how big is that.
In the past couple of years we said we don't believe that promotion markets were big.
And two what return on investment do I get i.e.
how much does it cost me to buy that market share in simple terms.
I'm simplifying.
And that is where we have not changed our view on this one.
But don't confuse that with us not being committed to drive our market shares with great products and innovative products.
We remain exceptionally committed and will remain so.
And Eric I would just add to that.
I mean we are investing in what we think is sustainable market share which is new product innovation.
And where we brought out really great new product innovation we are actually gaining market share.
To Marc's point we do not believe -- if you look at the elements that construct demand in the marketplace it's primarily replacement.
We're now seeing a really nice growth factor in new construction.
We're starting to see the pickup from existing home sales.
But the pure pure discretionary is still very very weak and given that environment we don't think what I'd call uneconomical promotions drives any more demand.
So that's the same position we've had for some time now and it's the position we have today.
I guess just a follow-up.
I totally understand your comment that uneconomical promotions don't drive demand but they may influence market share.
And so what I'm curious as you have seen LG and Samsung go into Depot and Lowe's how that is impacting your market share there and how you're seeing the landscape change.
I know you've also won market share at Home Depot with the Whirlpool brand.
But my follow-up is how you're seeing that market share position evolve as those new players have arrived? Again Eric -- again I can't really speak about competitors but if you look at the last couple of years when there were these heavy promotions we would lose some share and a month or 2 months later we'd be right back to where we are.
So we think it's transitory and I haven't seen any change in the environment today.
We'll go next to the line of Denise Chai.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on your -- on the growth in the North American contractor channel that you saw in the first quarter just year-on-year and also quarter-on-quarter.
And then my second question is about how you see the raw material price outlook and really how that factors into your thinking on price and margins going forward.
Denise it's Marc Bitzer.
Let me first take the question on the North American contract channel.
Yes it's correct we've seen strong robust and sustained growth in contract channels in the first quarter.
I would also like to refer back to some comments that we made in Q3 and Q4.
The size of the contract channel is still off a very low base.
So it does not yet weigh as big as it would have done 4 5 years ago.
But again I would say growth and without giving you specific numbers strong double-digit growth and we've not seen that for sustained periods and we do expect that even to grow further as the year progresses.
Denise regarding raw materials cost clearly the last couple of weeks there's been some change in sentiment certainly reported and in some prices of pure commodities.
For the year we don't see a material change.
We've guided early on in February $150 million to $200 million for the year.
I would say that if current trends hold we're probably heading towards the lower end of that range as opposed to higher.
And we still have some big materials like resins and -- that are significantly higher on a year-over-year basis.
And the other thing we have some very high inflationary markets like India and Brazil where they're not reflecting the global commodity trends that you're talking about.
But overall we're comfortable we have a significant portion of our business hedged.
We will benefit if these current prices hold of reducing that range which will just help our net productivity.
We'll move next to the line of Michael Rehaut.
It's actually Will Wong on for Mike.
Regarding your 2014 outlook in terms of the operating margin getting back to about at least 8% operating margins you guys are looking at maybe about 7% looking at the mid-point of the range this year.
What are the main drivers of getting back to that 8% plus in 2014? Well for the full year of 2014 we're clearly not giving forecast yet.
But the 8-plus percent is what we've been indicating really for the last 3 years of what -- the way we're going to drive our business to rebuild healthy margins invest in the things that will drive growth.
And so we've been executing now to that -- those plans and with great detail for some time.
If you just look at the margin progression the last 5 quarters and the drivers of it you kind of see all the pieces.
Fundamentally we have 4 big levers that we're driving -- or 3 that we're driving and 1 that is external first is demand.
We do think demand is going to improve.
We don't think it's going to -- we believe it's improving gradually but that's a profound change from what we've seen the previous 4 years where the North America market is still 25% below where it was in 2007 European market's about 20% down and so on.
So having even a little growth is going to be highly leverageable in our business.
The second thing has been price mix.
We made great progress in price mix last year through both cost base price actions and very positive mix from our new product innovation.
That's moderating this year as we expected but we still expect certainly the mix portion of that to be very important this year and going forward.
The third is our restructuring plans which we're fully on track to delivering and we've indicated this year it will contribute $175 million and there may be a tail to that with some more benefits even next year.
And then lastly is our cost productivity.
Despite weak volumes we've been in a highly inflationary materials market.
And so even this year we're talking about commodities going down they're still up for the full year.
And so a moderation of that will help us drive higher net productivity.
In the combination of those 4 things that we're managing in every part of the world everywhere and plus the 5 -- last 5 quarters of track record we believe we're going to continue to grow our margins sequentially and head into next year and when it's time we'll give you those plans.
But we've guided early on to between 6.8% and 7.2%.
So yes 7% is the mid-point.
It could be on the high end it could be on the low end it's too early to tell but that was the basis for our guidance this year.
Okay great.
And a question regarding Europe.
Last year you guys made about $4 million on higher revenue and this year -- or this quarter you lost about $8 million.
You talked a little bit about maybe potential further restructuring going forward.
Question like how much of that restructuring that was previously announced was actually executed thus far? And then in terms of profitability in Europe how should we think about just the remainder of the year? Do you expect to be profitable in the region going for the next couple of quarters? Yes let me take that question.
First of all if you think about how Europe went over the course of last year what we saw was a reduction in demand over the course of the year.
And so that had an impact on our total profitability.
We've executed the bulk of the restructuring actions but as you know in Europe it takes a little bit longer to begin to get those benefits.
But we are getting the restructuring benefits that we committed to and we expect to get that throughout the course of this year.
The other thing to remember is even though you quoted the year-over-year if we look at just sequentially the first quarter is always our lowest quarter of volume seasonally in Europe.
So it's about 20% lower than it is in the fourth quarter.
So those are just kind of the macro.
We do expect that as we go throughout the course of this year that yes we will drive this business to profitability.
And we will continue to assess the demand environment and if necessary we will take action on our fixed cost.
But that's something that we'll observe over the course of the year.
Great.
And then just last question if I could.
Regarding the sequential improvement in margins in North America from 9.3% in 4Q to 9.7% could you help us maybe in terms of what were the main drivers? Was it price mix cost and capacity reductions? Maybe just give us a little bit more color on that that would be great.
It's Marc Bitzer again.
First of all typically what you see in Q4 to Q1 sequentially in North America is maybe less amplified as you would see for example compared to Europe which Mike just referred to.
What we took the gap in North America between Q4 and Q1 is 2 effects.
You have a little bit less profitability coming from small domestic business which is a healthy business for us and you have the opposite effect because typically Q4 is a little bit more promotion intense period.
As a net result of all this one you typically would expect Q4 to Q1 a small drop i.e.
the Q1 has a slightly lower operating margin than Q4.
And this year was different and that is a good achievement and that gives us all the confidence for this year.
Will just one other thing to add to what Marc said just realize that there's almost a -- there's almost 20% lower volume between Q4 and Q1 and that's really typical across the company as well as North America and margins improved.
We'll go next to the line of David MacGregor.
On the North American business you mentioned that Canada and Mexico were off.
I wonder if you could just say what U.S.
grew if you exclude Canada and Mexico.
David it's Marc Bitzer.
I mean first of all you probably have seen the industry shipment data which are 5.5% up for Q1.
Again keep in mind these are sell-in data which are slightly elevated due to the inventory moves.
Again it's difficult to quantify publicly what we think the sell-through is but it's obviously a few points below that but again supporting our full year assumption.
Mexico in particular in Q1 had a very soft industry double digit down.
Okay.
We've kind of carved this thing up.
I'd like to maybe talk about the use of cash.
My recollection is that you still have a share repurchase authorization remaining from many years ago.
Can you just remind us if that's correct and what the amount of the authorization is and what your inclination would be to be active here in the very near term in terms of share repurchase activity? Yes David this is Larry.
As I said in my prepared remarks the uses of cash funding the business debt maturities pension contribution M&amp;A return to shareholders.
We did increase the dividend pretty much in line with our historical payout ratio.
We are evaluating both M&amp;A and share repurchase.
We have $350 million remaining on our authorization.
And again as I mentioned we're continuing to evaluate both M&amp;A as well as share repurchase as we move forward.
Okay.
Maybe we could talk about the M&amp;A opportunity a bit as well.
And I guess Jeff if you could talk a little bit about your priorities or how you're thinking about M&amp;A opportunity and -- maybe from a valuation standpoint or geographic standpoint or -- and how can you execute acquisitions at this point in a way that doesn't disappoint the investment community? Well I guess that would be the starting point David is -- well first of all as I've said we're always looking at opportunities throughout the world in different parts of our business.
We have strict criteria that we follow when evaluating them.
There've been a number of acquisitions over the last couple of years that we've looked at and decided didn't meet our criteria.
But top of the list of that criteria is creating value for our shareholders.
So the simple answer is if we don't see a clear path to doing that we won't do it.
And again the things that have worked well for us very well in the past are what I call plug-and-plays into some of our regions our core regions.
We continue to invest in certain emerging markets where we can scale up.
We continue to look at opportunities in our expanded -- extend and expand categories.
But the fact that we haven't done any means that we haven't done anything that really meets our criteria.
Would that criteria include being accretive in the first year? David it depends.
I can't answer that because it just depends on the opportunity but...
I think we're looking at the value creation value creation versus [indiscernible].
Right.
I'm just thinking about catalysts in the story.
And then could you just maybe talk about Eastern Europe and particularly Russia? Just what is the opportunity there for Whirlpool and where would that stand in terms of your list of emerging market priorities.
Yes David Russia historically and continues to be a pretty volatile market.
It's a market that's driven on basically one area which is oil.
And so our investments in Russia have been limited.
We don't see it as a huge growth opportunity because some years it will be a boom and other years it will be a bust.
And so what we're looking at is really investing in those businesses where we think we can get sustainable growth.
And we don't see Russia -- we think there's opportunity but not for huge investment.
And as ugly as Europe is right now is it fair to say that at least it would be a consideration for you if there was an opportunity to play a consolidating role in Europe? Right.
Yes Dave look we've got many things we can and are doing in our current business in Europe to improve value creation and returns to our shareholders.
Europe remains a very fragmented market and consolidation is something that can and likely will happen someday.
But the question is  someday and I don't know when that will be.
And we'll take our final question from the line of Ken Zener.
Research Division</strong> Jeff Larry I'm going to go back to AHAM versus your North American shipments because it's the fundamental question today given that your margins sequentially are higher in North America which is I think outstanding.
However we had LG report last night.
They're up 19% international led by U.S.
sell-in to Lowe's part of that product shift.
How clearly can you express to investors that you're not losing share which is the fundamental pressure on the stock today despite the excellent operating leverage sequentially that you delivered? Let's be clear first of all AHAM we're not talking North America we are talking the U.S.
AHAM was up roughly 5.8 and we think sell-through was about 2 to 3 okay? You talked about the competitor number up 19%.
Please remember they entered a major distribution channel during the quarter which involves -- that has nothing to do with sellout and has everything to do with sell-in.
You also probably note in that release their margins in this category went down 2 points.
So I guess I wouldn't make a plus 19 trade-off for minus 2 points of margin.
It wouldn't be value creating for our shareholders.
So our view is that we're going to earn good business every day.
We are investing significantly in new innovations we're bringing to marketplace.
We've got great examples where we are gaining share with this innovation.
And we feel fine about where we are in market share today.
To Marc's point there's business you got to earn every day and there's business that's transaction oriented and we do both.
And the business that you earn every day we do very well in.
And the transaction if it's a good transaction we do it.
But candidly as I've said in the past we could gain 2 to 3 points of market share in 90 days in the U.S.
market if we want to pursue certain types of business.
Today that type of business just isn't value creating.
Research Division</strong> Jeff that was very good and clear.
I do appreciate it.
Second question is our forecast if the AHAM was -- again North America was 36 million units '12.
We forecast roughly 42 million in 2015 of which half of the growth comes from housing normalizing the 1.5 million starts.
Can you give investors a little more comfort that your market share which I believe is roughly 40% nationally as well as 40% new construction that that growth is predicated upon structural issues like your distribution channel a and comment on the profitability of that business relative to the segment in general? Hey Kenneth it's Marc Bitzer.
First of all on your 2015 industry forecast which I wouldn't confirm but I'm not disagreeing with first of all rightfully you point out the 2 fundamental driver in the long-term industry demand are ongoing replacement cycle and the structural recovery in the housing/construction.
You obviously also noted that all the growth which was in housing permits is still and we made that point earlier 6 to 9 months away from housing completions and when you typically get the appliance shipment.
You get the appliance shipment pretty much on 2 days before the keys are handed over.
So you were always at the tail end but also means in 2013 you will still only see a certain portion of the underlying momentum being built in that channel.
But again the momentum is building strongly.
Now as you look at the market share and that is -- I will say the nice thing about this channel in particular and you asked earlier about certain other brands that channel is a very how should I phrase it very captive channel that you have to earn contracts over many years.
These contracts are awarded they're signed and it's a very difficult channel to manage and serve in the right way.
It takes years of building a capability of contracts.
And today that market is I would say largely 2 players and the third one a little bit smaller of a branch you mentioned before are basically not having access to that channel.
So we are very confident that we're in a very strong position to participate in that growth of a market in a I would say almost disproportionate manner.
And Ken I would add to that.
I mean there is an infrastructure cost to be in that channel a supply chain cost service cost coverage cost.
And we're still early in the game I think in the housing recovery.
And that infrastructure cost is highly leverageable.
It's fixed.
And so as that channel grows it's not only very leverageable from a fixed cost base but it's a great mix channel for us because the power of our brand portfolio we give builders packaged options which they offer to consumers and we see great mix upgrade opportunities throughout our portfolio of brands.
So it's a great channel as it's getting healthy.
It was an investment on our part when it was down to the levels it were with the fixed cost that we had but it was an investment we decided to make and we're going to benefit from the upside of that.
And we'll see some very strong industry growth in the future as that part of the business comes back.
I think that was our last question we had on the line.
We appreciate everyone joining us today.
We look forward to talking to you next time.
Thank you.
This concludes today's program.
Have a great day.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to Whirlpool Corporation's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Senior Director of Investor Relations Joe Lovechio.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Whirlpool Corporation Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Joining me today are Jeff Fettig our Chairman and CEO; Presidents Mike Todman and Marc Bitzer; as well as Larry Venturelli our Chief Financial Officer.
Our remarks today track with the presentation available on the Investors section of our website at whirlpoolcorp.com.
Before we begin let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements to assist you in understanding Whirlpool Corporation's future expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially from these statements due to many factors discussed in our latest 8-K 10-K and 10-Q as well as in the appendix of this presentation.
Turning to Slide 3 we want to remind you that today's presentation includes non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures are important indicators of our operation as they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to results from our ongoing business operations.
We also think that the adjusted measures will provide you with a better baseline for analyzing trends in our ongoing business operation.
Listeners are directed to the appendix section of our presentation beginning on Slide 29 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP items to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
With that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Good morning everyone and thank you again for joining us today.
As you saw in our earnings release from earlier this morning our second quarter results reflect strong revenue growth in every region around the world.
And as I've outlined in the last several quarters we continue to manage all the drivers that impact our margins and that once again had significant margin expansion during the quarter.
These results mark the sixth consecutive quarter of the year-over-year ongoing business operations margin expansion.
Given the strong underlying trends that we see in our business we are raising our full year ongoing business operation EPS outlook to $9.50 to $10 per share up $0.25 from our previous guidance; and our free cash flow to between $650 million and $700 million up $50 million from our previous guidance.
Our second quarter results are summarized on Slide 6.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency and BEFIEX our revenues were up approximately 6% versus last year.
Our diluted earnings per share from ongoing business operations improved 53% up $0.82 to $2.37 compared to $1.55 last year.
And as we continue to drive higher revenue growth and expand margins our expectations for cash generation are firmly on track.
All of our actions regarding our use of cash are aligned with our previously committed priorities which are funding -- appropriately funding the business particularly focused on new product innovation which we're doing refinancing our long-term debt.
We did increase our dividend in April by 25%.
And recently during the second quarter we resumed our share repurchase program.
Turning to Slide 7 you'll see our industry assumptions have changed within the regions as compared to our previous outlook.
In North America we're increasing our industry demand assumption to be up 6% to 8% for the year as we continue to see very positive trends in U.S.
housing as well as pickup in really all segments of the market from a demand perspective.
In Europe we expect now to see flat to minus 2% industry demand for the full year as weak demand environment continues across the Eurozone.
And for Brazil and other Latin American countries we are forecasting a lower but still positive industry growth for the year.
Now we see it ranging from 1 -- up 1% to 3%.
And finally we're forecasting the industry to be flat from the prior year in our Asia regions.
But in total given these changes our overall global industry demand assumption has increased for the year.
One last note before we get into our regional and financial results.
During the second quarter we've realigned our senior leadership structure here at Whirlpool.
Marc Bitzer now has responsibility for our developed markets which are North America and Europe while Mike Todman's focus is on accelerating our growth in emerging markets of Latin America and Asia.
These changes reflect the similar nature of the opportunities that we see in different parts of the world and we are providing the appropriate leadership focus to realize these opportunities.
So at this point in time I'd like to turn over to Marc for his review of North America and European operations.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on Slide 9 by reviewing North America's performance in the second quarter.
Starting with the top line net sales of $2.6 billion for North America were up 5% for the quarter driven by higher volumes.
Ongoing business operating margins were 10.1% for the quarter with operating profit of $262 million compared to $186 million in 2012.
Higher sales ongoing cost productivity and cost and capacity reduction benefits continued to be positive drivers in the second quarter offsetting higher material cost.
Overall our ongoing business operating margins expanded by 2.5 points year-over-year.
The consistent and disciplined execution of our actions resulted in the seventh quarter of year-over-year ongoing business operations margin improvement.
And we continue to be pleased with our structural improvements in margin and the market's response to our innovative new products.
We are comfortable with our structural market share in channels and products that clearly create value as we were able to grow our sales and expand our margins in this quarter.
As in the previous quarter we did not aggressively participate in non-value-creating promotions.
Now let me take a moment to talk about our expectations for the rest of the year as shown on Slide 10.
As Jeff indicated earlier we are increasing our full year industry guidance to up 6% to 8%.
Positive trends in U.S.
housing continue including both new construction and existing home sales.
In addition we see demand for replacement purchases as well as improving consumer confidence.
Therefore we expect continued growth as we progress throughout the year and we continue to invest in innovative new products.
We are seeing the benefit of our cost and capacity reduction initiatives as well as our ongoing cost productivity programs.
And we're focused on growing beyond our core business.
I will now talk to the second quarter results for our Europe Middle East and Africa regions as shown on Slide 11.
As you can see our results continue to reflect a very challenging market environment in the Eurozone.
However our second quarter sales increased 6% year-over-year to $731 million driven by higher volumes and our operating profit improved by $21 million.
Higher sales benefit from cost and capacity reduction initiatives and ongoing cost productivity more than offset higher material cost and foreign currency.
Operating margins improved 310 basis points compared to the prior year period.
And we will continue to evaluate and take all actions necessary to ensure a profitable position in Europe despite the weak market demand.
Turning to Slide 12 you can see just a few examples of our leading innovative products in these 2 regions.
The Whirlpool brand 6th Sense induction oven KitchenAid brand's Pro Line Series 16-cup food processor and the top-rated Maytag Maxima front-loader.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Mike for the review of our Latin America and Asia operations.
Thanks Marc.
If you turn to Slide 14 you'll see our Latin America second quarter results.
Sales excluding currency and BEFIEX increased approximately 8% on higher volumes.
GAAP operating profit for the quarter totaled $135 million compared to $103 million in the prior year.
On an adjusted basis excluding Brazilian tax credits our operating profit for the quarter totaled $111 million up 10% over the prior year.
Higher sales and ongoing cost productivity more than offset higher material cost and foreign currency.
We continue to drive margin expansion as our ongoing business operating margin increased 0.5 point to 9.3%.
On Slide 15 we saw a slowdown in the industry particularly at the end of June with the unrest in Brazil so we have slightly lowered our full year industry demand assumption for the region.
However July demand seems to have returned to normal levels.
Despite this volatile external environment we continue to gain market share and expect our business to outperform resulting in continued strong revenue and earnings growth.
We continue to leverage innovative new product launches execute ongoing cost productivity programs and grow beyond our core businesses.
Our second quarter results in the Asia region are shown on Slide 16.
Net sales increased during the quarter to $246 million up from $241 million in the prior year period.
Excluding the impact of currency sales increased approximately 4% on higher volumes.
The region's operating profit was $14 million flat from the prior year with higher sales mainly due to market share gains and ongoing cost productivity offset by raw material cost and foreign currency.
Slide 17 shows a few examples of how we continue to capitalize on the opportunities for growth with product leadership in Latin America and Asia.
For this quarter we've highlighted the Brastemp brand Ative! Smart Cook range the Whirlpool Agitronic washing machine and the Whirlpool Ares Combo washer and dryer.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Larry Venturelli.
Thanks Mike and good morning everybody.
Our first half results with higher sales and higher margins have us tracking ahead of internal expectations and as a result we are raising our full year guidance today.
The company continues to manage well through short-term volatility in demand and currencies across the world.
Importantly the underlying fundamentals of the business remain very strong.
Turning to Slide 19 you can see we now expect to deliver annual GAAP EPS in the range of $10.05 to $10.55 per share and annual ongoing business operations EPS of $9.50 to $10 per share.
Our 2013 free cash flow is now expected to be in the range of $650 million to $700 million.
Before I move on as a reminder Slides 29 through 36 in the appendix provide you with a reconciliation of our reported GAAP operating profit and EPS to ongoing business operations for 2013 and 2012.
On Slide 20 you will note that we continue to drive our margin expansion actions for the first half driving a 180 basis point improvement in ongoing business operating profit margin.
Price/mix was positive for the first half of the year and we expect to realize 0.5 point for the full year.
Our cost and capacity reduction initiatives contributed 1 point consistent with our full year guidance.
Net cost productivity was positive for the first half as our actions more than offset first half material cost inflation of approximately $75 million.
Cost productivity is on track to ramp up throughout the year as we continue to deliver higher volumes fully offsetting $150 million to $200 million of year-over-year material cost inflation.
We expect net cost productivity to deliver up to 1 point in margin for 2013.
Our increases in marketing technology and product investments are expected to reduce margins by approximately 1 point for the full year.
As we manage all of these margin expansion drivers we continue to expect to deliver an ongoing business operating profit margin toward the high end of our previous guidance of 6.8% to 7.2%.
The combination of revenue growth and margin expansion will lead to a strong second half performance.
Moving to the financial summary on Slide 21 overall our second quarter revenues increased across all regions driven by higher volumes.
Reported net sales were $4.7 billion compared to $4.5 billion last year.
Excluding the impact of both currency and BEFIEX sales were up approximately 6% compared to the prior year.
We expect profitable revenue growth to continue throughout the year with increasing demand.
Second quarter ongoing business operating profit increased over 50% to $335 million up from $222 million in the prior year driven by higher sales ongoing cost productivity with volume leverage and cost and capacity reductions more than offsetting higher material cost and an unfavorable currency.
The graph on Slide 23 illustrates expenses associated with the cost and capacity reduction program.
The program continues to do very well.
For the full year we still expect our program expense to be approximately $185 million and the program remains on track to deliver $175 million of benefit this year.
We remain firmly on track to deliver the full $400 million in benefits we previously communicated through 2013.
On Slide 24 you can see that our actions are aligned with our cash priorities.
We continue to fund the business which includes capital expenditures.
We refinanced our long-term debt and are contributing to our pension.
We are returning to shareholders as evidenced by the 25% increase in our annual dividend announced in April.
Now given the strong underlying trends in our business we recently resumed our share repurchase program and have $320 million remaining under our existing board authorization.
Given our free cash flow outlook and strong balance sheet we are growing our investment capacity and we'll continue balancing funding for all aspects of our business to ensure the best long-term value creation for our shareholders.
Now I'll turn it back over to Jeff.
Thanks Larry.
Let me be brief in the summary.
Turning to Slide 26 we're very pleased with where we are at mid-year.
For the quarter we grew both unit revenues -- units and revenues in every region around the world and we have strong momentum throughout the business operation.
Our margin expansion actions continue to drive strong benefits.
We continue to invest in consumer-relevant innovation for our leading global brands.
And as you saw we increased our full year EPS and free cash flow guidance.
We also again increased our dividend by 25% in April and as Larry mentioned we have now reinitiated our share repurchase program.
Going forward we'll continue to take strong actions to do 3 things: one grow our business; secondly continue expanding our margins; and third actions that create value for our shareholders as we deliver on our roadmap for both growth and value creation.
So with that I'd like to stop and open this up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from the site of Sam Darkatsh from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two primary questions.
I'll make them brief.
First it would appear at least in the second quarter Jeff that your price/mix specifically in North America and Latin America was down a few percentage points.
Could you talk about that specifically in terms of how much was price and how much was mix? And then in the second half it looks like you're expecting price/mix to be up about 0.5 point which suggests that it's going to sequentially improve pretty meaningfully.
Could you talk about that if you could? And then I have a quick follow-up.
Yes Sam I would be happy to.
In some of the early parts I think there's some confusion out there on that.
Let's first -- I'll have Larry talk about it globally and then have Marc and Mike specifically talk about LAR.
We're very pleased with where we are at price/mix.
Yes Sam.
This is Larry.
Let me talk about the margin improvement in the company.
So both -- we had both revenue and margin expansion in Q2 very important.
If you look at the drivers at the margin for the profit improvement we were up 2 points restructuring was about 1 point productivity was about 2 points and that was offset by about 0.5 point of material cost inflation.
Price/mix at the margin held up very well globally.
North America? Yes.
Sam it's Marc Bitzer.
First of all let me start.
We've demonstrated over the past 7 quarters that we balance price mix and volume in a very value-creating way and we will continue to do so.
When I looked at some of the reports this morning and to echo what Jeff was saying we have to structurally differentiate between ASVs which is based on the ticket value and the price/mix impact on margins.
Now ASVs are impacted by a number of factors such as industry mix how much we're growing our non-core business et cetera.
But that is different from the impact of price/mix on margins.
And actually the impact of price/mix on margins is way way lower than what was reported this morning in some of the reports.
So otherwise we could not have lifted our operating margins by 2.5 points.
So again the price/mix impact on the margin side is significantly less as would be implied by the ASVs.
And Sam this is Mike Todman.
For Latin America we actually -- it's very similar if you will to North America in that the ASV change is very different from the price/mix impact on margins.
And so we actually gained share in every category but we gained share in some of the lower ASV categories more than some of the others.
And so that had an impact on the ASV.
However we actually had a year-over-year increase in our price/mix on the margin.
So again just distinguishing between the 2.
Let me again -- because I think this was a big point of understanding that's important.
We're pleased with where we are on price/mix as it impacts the margin.
We got to distinguish between ASVs and price/mix.
They are 2 different things.
For the quarter we had about a minus 0.5 point price/mix as we define it and we feel good about our forecast for the year being up 0.5 point.
I'd only add color on 2 other points in our -- parts of the world like Brazil and India are high inflationary areas.
We've already announced second half price increases so we'll benefit from that.
And I think the general theme of growing mix through innovative new product launches continues.
So hopefully that clears that up.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My follow-up question -- it was helpful.
I noticed -- this might be a nuance that doesn't really matter but I noticed that you didn't change the expectation for U.S.
energy tax credits for the year yet you did take the U.S.
industry expectations and theoretically your own also higher.
How -- why is that? Yes Sam I think we said for the program to be about $120 million for the year.
Obviously we took into consideration with that the production that would generate that.
That category continues to do well so I'd say we're still in that range.
It could potentially be a little bit higher but at this point in time I wouldn't raise it above that.
But it could be a little bit higher than that I think.
It's always depends on where we are at the year end production for the balance of the year and year-end inventories is what I'd say.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So theoretically the incremental sales volumes that you'd be selling would largely be coming out of inventory as opposed to incremental production? Well we always deplete inventory in the second half of the year so yes.
And again it's not -- again it will be based on what we produce by year end.
And just one other comment on that Sam.
The realization is that those credits are tax assets on the balance sheet.
They are noncash this year.
We'll move next to David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
I wonder -- let's see if I can get you to talk a little about Brazil.
There's obviously been a lot going on down there.
You have the civil unrest that was disruptive to June.
If you could talk a little bit about whether we're free and clear of that now and business has normalized.
You've got the Mabe bankruptcy.
You took your Latin American industry guidance down but presumably your share goes up as you pick up listings from that event.
And then you've got the renewed stimulus down there which you can talk a little bit the impacts of those 3.
And with respect to the stimulus does that hurt you next by driving volumes to the Consul brand as opposed to Brastemp [ph]? Can you just talk about those moving parts and give us a sense of how Brazil plays in the second half for Whirlpool? I'd appreciate it.
Sure sure.
Well David as you mentioned there was a little bit of unrest the unrest in Brazil that had an impact.
But primarily that's been June.
You saw it.
In the first several weeks of July we've actually seen a return to more normal industry demand environment.
Actually I would say first just to kind of step back we feel very good about both the medium- and long-term prospects in Brazil because we think the fundamentals are right and frankly the penetration levels are still low.
In terms of the impact of then some of the other items that you talked about the stimulus we've yet to see what impact that that's going to have.
Obviously we assume that it will be positive and it is likely to be more in the Consul brand than Brastemp.
But we also know that a lot of consumers even in that range want to be able to go buy and afford the Brastemp brand so we do expect some positive out of that.
In terms of our ability to pick up market share we've shown in the second quarter that we were able to with some of the problems in Mabe.
And we expect that trend to continue throughout the remainder of the year as we continue to launch some new innovative products into the marketplace.
So we're feeling pretty good about our position in Brazil and our ability to grow that business.
So when you talk about the stimulus you sound relatively tentative.
You're saying you haven't really seen much evidence of that yet.
You revised your industry guidance to 1% to 3%.
Do you not have any of the stimulus in that 1% to 3% for '13 Latin America? No at this point we don't because just as in some of the other stimuluses it's difficult to predict what the impact is going to be on the total industry.
So our perspective is right now we've revised it down just based on the activity that just happened.
And at this juncture we feel good about where we've got it.
Okay.
And then do you have any growth in your Latin American listings from the Mabe developments in your guidance? Yes we have.
We have seen some pickup in both listings.
And as you can see we've also seen some pickup in the market share.
Okay.
And then just to be clear the upwards revision to your earnings guidance $9.50 to $10.
Does that include any of the share repurchase activity that you anticipate? Yes David.
This is Larry.
The increase in our guidance is entirely operationally driven.
What we did include in there was the repurchase activity we had in the second quarter which was about $30 million.
So that is what's included within the guidance revision.
So again very largely driven by the revision in industry assumptions and growth higher end of our margin and then we are offsetting some unfavorable currency also.
Okay last question.
Just Canada and Mexico within the North American numbers is there any way you can give us some sense of the delta there sequentially? David it's Marc Bitzer.
As you know we're not breaking down kind of Canada and Mexico.
I mean just what I will try to make as an overall comment is right now Mexico and Canada follow slightly different market dynamics than U.S.
The Mexican market is still down actually surprisingly to a large extent which obviously impacts us because we report Mexico in the North American region.
Canada market's holding up but does not yet show the positive momentum of U.S.
So can you compare that 8.2% growth in U.S.
and North America to AHAM 6 and just give us what the apples-to-apples comparison would be? David there's too much other elements it will include because first of all you know that T6 will also have a lot of business between what we call T6 and T-12 the non-core business in Mexico and Canada.
We typically don't break it down.
Yes I think people are just trying to make some sense this morning of what the read-through will be from AHAM 6 to that number.
Now what I can tell you is our overall market share and also market share in T6 I mean as we said before we're actually structurally comfortable with our structure and market share position.
So if you look at kind of the everyday market share we're very comfortable.
I will be lying if I will tell you that our market share did not drop a little bit over promotion periods but we're not overly nervous about it.
The market share dipped for 2 or 3 weeks.
That was exactly around July 4.
We did not see this will be any value creating if we would participate in that and now it's bouncing back.
We'll go next to the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
Two questions.
First of all a little bit of color on the full year guidance.
You obviously had a great first half and adding the repurchase and it looks like you've increased your productivity assumption from the good progress you're making there and the upside in U.S.
volumes.
And then the increased guide of $0.25 I'm just wondering if you can give a little color on the puts and takes beyond the $0.25 for what looks like is shaking up to be a very good year.
Yes sure.
I mean there are really 3 components.
We do the math on our industry assumptions.
From last time to this time we would say that we would expect growth in the industry and certainly our growth to be 1% higher than we originally expected.
The second piece of that is if you've seen our first half margin is very strong.
We normally have a seasonality build and we would expect to show a higher revenue growth in the second half of the year with a higher margin in the second half.
And so we're guiding now towards the higher end of that range.
And then partially offsetting that quite frankly is the unfavorable currency that we've seen.
We had -- for instance we had $25 million or $0.25 a share of currency hit year-over-year in the second quarter.
So we've incorporated that in.
And as I mentioned before we have initiated a share repurchase.
And the only thing we put into the guidance has been what we repurchased so far which is $30 million but largely driven by the strength in the operational performance of the business through the first half.
So we've earned about 45% of our annual earnings which is very consistent with what we would expect the company to earn based on the guidance in the first half relative to the second half.
And then secondly I'd love the ASV dynamic I would love to just understand a little bit more if this was a change from what we've seen for the last 4 6 quarters especially in North America.
And my question is is this something that should be sustained? Is this something that we're going to see continue? And then related to that why is this a different dynamic than what we've seen previously? Eric it's Marc Bitzer.
Let me just refer to the ASV dynamic as they happened so far.
And obviously we can't comment on future ASV trends.
What you see right now first of all there's an industry part.
As the industry has been showing much more growth momentum than we saw before the different segments in the industry picked up at different paces.
And if you would drill down the details of the T6 and if you even go through certain price segments there have been quite a bit of different dynamics across the different price segments.
And then that's basically just floating through our system.
In addition in our what we call the non-core business it's a fairly significant portion of our business and we're driving there higher growth than in the other businesses.
That typically comes to higher -- lower ASVs I'm sorry but higher margin.
So you see also that dynamical flowing through here.
So to what extent that extends in the future we don't know and we can't comment on this one.
But I want to reiterate what we said before.
We're laser sharply focused on price/mix impact on the margins.
We've managed it very well so far in combination with volume and we will not change the course here.
And just again just to build on what Marc said I mean the focus here is on growth which we showed in the first half and margin expansion at the same time.
So hopefully that answers your question.
The only other comment I'll make Eric is I mean again we've fully anniversaried all of our last-year price increases.
So there's been no new like-for-like price increases so far this year.
So the real dynamic is mix.
Mix I think as the market expands you're going to see growth at every price point.
And that can shift a little one way a little bit another.
It's -- we think this is not abnormal.
And then a quarter like this quarter where you had all the last 3 weeks of June shipments for those who promoted 50% off over 4th of July and things like that that distorted things a little bit.
Again as Marc said as we have in other activity normal promotional activities we were very stable share and mix through probably middle of June fell off with all these import shipments.
And then July it's quickly rebounded back.
So I think it's pretty much consistent with what we've been seeing.
So your reduction and your full year price/mix guidance if I'm interpreting it right is just reflective of what happened in June.
That's not a "go forward things are different" type of guidance? It's 0.5 point on $19 billion business.
So I mean could it go 3/10 one way or -- yes.
It could move -- I mean last year was so -- we had such positive.
We're up 4.5 points [ph] price/mix for the full year in a year where we took significant price increases around the world.
In the developed markets this year we've not taken price increases.
In the inflationary markets we have taken price increases.
So the mix dynamic I don't think is changing at all.
Yes and the other important thing to build off what Jeff said is with the volume growth we start to see the leverage which is also very positive.
The other side of this is with a little volume growth in North America you start to see the power of all the productivity and the lowering of our fixed cost that were taking place over the last 2 years and so on.
So the productivity lever is delivering very strong.
Yes and the only thing I'd mention on the top line keep in mind that there's 1 point to 1.5 points of negative currency in the top line when you're looking at the ASVs.
We'll go next to the site of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question I had was about Europe.
Marc with your expanded responsibilities for that region obviously it's been an area where you guys have done a lot of work to get back to profitability and the region remains very challenging.
Is there anything that we should expect in terms of how you're going to approach that region in terms of -- I know you kind of said earlier you continue to look and fix the cost structure.
Is that something that we should be expecting in terms of additional actions over the next 2 3 4 quarters to get that back to perhaps a mid-single-digit operating margin? And is that kind of your goal over the next year or 2? Mike it's Marc.
Let me first start from the tail end of your question.
As you know we don't give a regional guidance on a quarter-by-quarter base but we do expect Europe to come to breakeven.
We can't tell you exactly which quarter but I mean that's of course our I would say short-term objective that we get Europe as quick as possible to breakeven or above.
Overall I would say the European marketplace is still very challenging.
What impacts us in particular is that our exposure is particular strong in countries which are now impacted the most and that just hurts us right now.
Having said that we are all convinced that even in the current environment you can make money in Europe okay? And that's what we are focused on.
When it comes to how we deal with that it's I would say by and large not too dissimilar with what we've been trying to do in North America the last couple of years.
We have to address the fixed cost.
If the market demand is not there and probably will not rebound in the short term we will address fixed cost.
We have announced actions already previously.
We announced some additional actions to calculate unit [ph] fixed cost.
And as I said earlier we continue to evaluate all actions necessary and possible to address the fixed cost.
That's just one part.
And of course we will also manage the price/mix situation very carefully in a value-creating manner.
So long story short despite the market environment it is our firm expectation to bring Europe back to breakeven as quickly as possible and above breakeven.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate that.
And Larry a question for you on the share buyback.
We noticed that year-to-date you guys have issued about $60 million worth of shares.
I assume through different employee option and other types of programs and then you repurchased $30 million.
How do you think about the share repurchase relative to your overall account? Is this going to be something more to just combat creep or would you expect of course on an opportunistic basis maybe to get back to the share count that you had in 2012 plus or minus? Yes I think with the current authorization Michael mathematically right now you'd probably get back to the dilution.
So the way we look at this we're generating much more cash in the second half of the year.
And along with other priorities we'll continue the repurchase program.
And then we'll update everyone quarterly as far as where we're at against that.
Research Division</strong> When you mean get back to where you were against the dilution do you mean like in the fourth quarter you're at roughly $80 million so maybe something back in that neighborhood? Yes I think we had about 2.3 million shares of dilution versus a year ago.
And again if you do the math on the $350 million you will probably be able to get back there.
But I'm not going to give an update on when we'll exhaust that authorization but we will give you an update each quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great I appreciate it.
And one last one if I could.
Going back to the North America the promotional activity which you guys have appropriately tried to stay out of and been able to hold onto your margin can you give us a sense of -- any more color around that in terms of -- if that's something that maybe is going to -- do you have any sense if this is going to continue in the back half of the year and what the drivers are of that? Mike it's Marc Bitzer.
And obviously I can only comment on the promotions which happened.
I cannot and will not give comment on future promotion.
First of all stepping back just so you know there's always been promotion in this industry so there's nothing new about it.
The 4th of July promotion environment was actually as we expected and we early on decided to not participate in a very aggressive manner.
I think if you look back at July 4 it's been very evident there have been 2 players who've been very aggressive.
That didn't completely surprise us.
We decided to not participate because it simply does not create value.
So our strategy in promotions have not changed at all and obviously I cannot comment on what other competitors will be doing.
I mean we have evaluated in the past how aggressively we going there and we will probably do that also going forward.
Next to Denise Chai from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just want to know when we think about your North America pricing was there -- was the fact that maybe you were making more sales to homebuilders possibly a contributor to the ASV pressure and actually how much of your sales went to this channel compared to the first quarter of last year.
Denise it's Marc Bitzer.
It's actually a very good question.
The homebuilder has a pretty big impact on the ASVs and if you would go in the homebuilders there's even big differences across the different builders in terms of who sells more to the premium segment and who is more the mass segment.
Yes that has an impact on the ASV among many other factors.
So for example if you have an industry growth which is stronger on mass top-loaders or even in dishwashers you typically see an ASV impact.
So there's a lot of factors floating through here.
However and I want to repeat what I said before even the segments which I just mentioned they are margin attractive.
So homebuilders segment for us is margin attractive despite maybe a different ASV.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Also you mentioned that you are now contributing to your pension.
So can you give us perhaps a sense of the run rate or maybe how long you think it will take to close the gap there? Pension is the question? Research Division</strong> Yes.
In the U.S.
we have about -- at year end we had a $1.4 billion net liability.
So your question is a good question.
We are contributing I believe $138 million this year but there's -- another thing you have to also factor in is that interest rates as you know have increased.
They're probably up close to 80 basis points from when we closed at year end.
So if you would expect that rates would maintain at these levels that would probably be -- it could be a $300 million to $400 million benefit on our net liability.
And I'd say going forward right now given the current pension legislation that $138 million is a good estimate going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just one last thing.
You mentioned that you're putting up prices in Latin America and Asia due to inflation there.
Can you give us a sense of the magnitude? Yes we've announced the price increases in both regions of 3% to 5% for the second half of the year.
And then that is as an average.
I mean we evaluate this every month every quarter based on inflation and currency movement.
The next is Ken Zener.
Research Division</strong> What a big inflection in U.S.
demand.
So that's the big picture I think.
People are obviously very focused on AHAM versus your units.
I think it would for the broad investment community to the extent you guys could create an index let's say make it 100 at some point in time and just give us an up or down I think that would be constructive for you guys in terms of getting rid of some of the noise.
That's one suggestion I would have.
Second when your AHAM guidance is 6 to 8 in the first quarter there was a difference between AHAM and demand.
Can you give us your view of what that means for demand in both the quarter as well as for the year or is there a lot of load-in? Ken it's Marc Bitzer.
So what you're highlighting is a point which we referred to I think in the Q1 earnings call which was about the inventory build of the retailers.
And yes we did see in Q1 we saw a slight impact of inventory build in the overall AHAM number.
It's of course difficult to quantify it exactly but it was probably to the tune of 1 point to 1.5 points of our overall market growth.
There has also been in the period leading up to July 4 some inventory build which is normal as retailers load for their big promotion.
So on a year-to-date base I would say the 2 factors combined are in the ballpark of about 1 point.
So it has an impact.
We have a pretty good handle on it and we factored all these inventory moves into our full year guidance.
And Ken I would just add to your point.
There's a lot of news coming from different sources about the marketplace.
I think your first comment is right that the headline is is we are seeing we think sustainable profound demand recovery in the U.S.
marketplace.
Over the last 1.5 years we've talked about being down 28% from the peak that we were much lower under the curve 30-year growth curve and never above it.
And that someday this market would recover particularly housing becoming solid on a solid foundation and growing and that we might see double-digit demand growth sometime in the next 3 years.
Well it started sooner than we thought.
It is recovering.
We think it's sustainable and we think it's a multiyear recovery.
So to your point that's the big picture.
I guess to be candid all the other stuff for us is -- there's a lot of information.
Some retailers get their view what's going on to people covering our stock.
There's industry shipment data coming every month and so there's a lot of short-term reactions on these things.
But at the end of the day we give our guidance for the year not for the quarter and this is the clearest picture we see of the year.
And we'll continue to update you on what I would call the fundamentals but we're not going to get into the nitty-gritty market share by product et cetera et cetera.
Given that it changes we'll tell you the trends.
But again I would just maybe try to put that all together.
We're very positive about demand.
We're very positive about our ability to grow in this improving demand market while expanding margins.
That is what we think is the value-creating way to do it.
And for us the rest of it is just noise.
Research Division</strong> That's good because I think the -- to the extent there's load-in [ph] I mean if market share -- there'll be some variance there but it does get to the fact of 6% to 8% it looks like 9% 9.5% volume North America 3 4Q on average is what's required to get to the low end of your 6% if that's your volume.
And it does relate to the margin question to the extent that -- certainly it's a surprise to see the negative price/mix but you're discounting what we see -- and putting in that 50 basis point range and not necessarily the 300 price/mix which gets to the question of how we really should think about the profitability of your business.
Because if I do 9% growth 3 4Q we see effectively very similar volume 3Q from 4Q -- excuse me 3Q from 2Q and then a big spike in 4Q.
I mean is it reasonable to think about quarter-over-quarter volumes driving your operating leverage in that 15% leverage? Yes yes.
Ken let me answer it this way.
I mean Ken we've had 5 years of mostly negative volatility and we now had 2 quarters of positive upside on demand.
You're absolutely right though.
I mean if Q3 is the same as Q2 or is it accelerating I don't know.
But it could be higher.
And as I said before if the demand is higher we'll do more.
And we are -- but the fundamental proposition is really 3 things.
One higher demand is clearly developing.
Two certainly for most of our businesses but certainly our North America business more demand volume on a very lean fixed cost base is very good leverage which you saw on the productivity level in the second quarter.
And third that our price/mix is going to continue to be very good due to our investment in new product innovations.
So your basic thinking I don't argue with at all.
For 5 years it's been hard to forecast it.
And so we're just giving you what I call a sound baseline that we based our earnings on.
Ken it's Marc Bitzer.
Just in addition echoing what Jeff was saying is I think in a lot of discussion we need to differentiate between structural demand drivers the structural market position versus promotion and noise and I would call really promotion noise.
We are -- and of course we're not giving a 2014 guidance but we're very bullish on the structural demand drivers in North America that is housing that is replacement that is consumer confidence.
And I've seen the housing starts in June.
Yes they were a little bit positive but that has not changed at all our view our very bullish view on the structural demand drivers in North America.
Second our structural market position in particular in the contract channel and several of the high end segment is a very good one.
So for example we see very strong growth in our Jenn-Air and KitchenAid business and we're very bullish about it.
In that context sometimes the year-round promotion is a little bit overblown frankly.
It does not impact the structural drivers or position.
We will always make [indiscernible] if we participate or not.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And I guess if I can ask my next question around cash flow if we just say the 4% to 5% of sales which will be roughly $1 billion at $20 billion in rev my understanding is when you talked about buybacks today and the net benefit of that it was discussed earlier but my understanding is roughly 30% of your business cash is coming in the U.S.
pre-pension which obviously reduces the overall amount available for dividends and buybacks.
So can you address the bulk of this cash how you're thinking about the deployment of it joint venture buying a company and more -- where you can't be so specific talk about a pipeline if you will? Because this is potentially is a major driver of earnings that is not in people's estimates.
Yes Ken it's Larry.
I think we've kind of laid down our cash priorities and return to shareholder is certainly one of those.
M&amp;A we said before is another one of them.
Those are things that we consider.
And certainly that and funding the business are the things that we look at as we deploy cash for the company.
As far as cash generating you are right.
At the end of last year we had a little under 30% of our cash in the U.S.
and what's outside the U.S.
we look for tax-effective ways to bring that back.
So I would say our balance sheet is in good shape.
Our forecast of free cash flow is in good shape and we'll update you as we go along as far as how we're deploying that.
Okay.
Well thank you.
Listen everyone.
Again just to sum up we're pleased so far through midpoint of this year.
We look forward to deliver a record year of operating results and look forward to talking to you next time.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's program.
Have a great day.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the Whirlpool Corporation's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Senior Director of Investor Relations Joe Lovechio.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Whirlpool Corporation Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Joining me today are Jeff Fettig our Chairman and CEO; Presidents Mike Todman and Marc Bitzer; as well as Larry Venturelli our Chief Financial Officer.
Our remarks today track with the presentation available on the Investors section of our website at whirlpoolcorp.com.
Before we begin let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements to assist you in understanding Whirlpool Corporation's future expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially from these statements due to many factors discussed in our latest 8-K 10-K and 10-Q as well as in the appendix of this presentation.
Turning to Slide 3.
We want to remind you that today's presentation includes non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures are important indicators of our operations as they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to results from our ongoing business operations.
We also think that the adjusted measures will provide you with a better baseline for analyzing trends in our ongoing business operations.
Listeners are directed to the appendix section of our presentation beginning on Slide 33 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP items to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
With that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Well good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
As you saw in our earnings release from earlier this morning our third quarter results reflect record earnings for our company.
We continue to execute on the plans that we laid out to you at the beginning of the year and we're managing well all the drivers which drive revenue growth and margin expansion.
In addition our -- we continue to accelerate the pace of our innovative new products in support of our industry-leading brands and in turn these are driving increased consumer demand and revenue growth.
As a result this marks the seventh straight quarter in a row of year-over-year ongoing business operations margin expansions for us.
Given the strong underlying trends that we see in our business today we are raising our full year ongoing business operation EPS outlook to $9.90 to $10.10 per share and increasing our free cash flow forecast to between $690 million and $710 million of cash.
Our third quarter results are summarized on Slide 6.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency and BEFIEX our sales were up over 5% versus last year led by strong growth in our North America business.
Diluted earnings per share from ongoing business operations improved by $0.92 or 51% and came in at $2.72 compared to $1.80 last year.
As we continue to drive higher revenue growth and expand margins our expectations for cash are firmly on track for the year and we're effectively deploying that cash in line with our previously communicated priorities.
Turning to Slide 7 you will see our current full year industry assumptions by region as compared to our previous forecast.
In North America we are increasing our industry demand assumption to approximately 9% for the year as we continue to see positive trends in U.S.
housing the normal replacement cycle of appliances and a return of discretionary purchases to the market.
In Europe we now expect a flat industry for the full year as the region remains weak but appears to be stabilizing.
And for Latin America we saw inflation and currency changes impact consumer demand in Q3.
But we're now seeing a pickup in demand and we expect that positive trend to continue during the fourth quarter.
So for the full year our industry forecast is now expected to be a positive 1%.
And finally we're now forecasting the industry demand in Asia to be down 2% for the full year primarily driven by industry demand weakness in India somewhat offset by our strength in China.
In total given these changes our overall global industry demand expectations has increased slightly for the year.
So at this point in time I'd like to turn it over to Marc Bitzer.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on Slide 9 by reviewing North America's performance in the third quarter starting with the top line.
Net sales of $2.6 billion for North America were up 8% driven by higher volumes particularly in the U.S.
where core appliance revenue was up approximately 10% compared to the prior year.
Strength in the U.S.
was partially offset by industry weakness in Mexico and currency impact in Canada.
Ongoing business operating margins were 11% for the quarter with ongoing business operating profit of $289 million an all-time quarterly record compared to $227 million in 2012.
Higher sales ongoing cost productivity and cost and capacity reduction benefits continue to be positive drivers in the third quarter more than offsetting higher material cost.
Overall ongoing business operating margins expanded by 1.7 points year-over-year.
Consistent and disciplined execution of our action resulted in the eighth quarter of year-over-year ongoing business operating margin improvement.
Now let me take a moment to talk about our expectations for the rest of the year as shown in Slide 10.
Given current trends we expect the strong momentum to continue in the fourth quarter.
And as Jeff indicated earlier we are increasing our full year industry guidance to approximately 9%.
Positive trends in the U.S.
housing continue including both new constructions and existing home sales.
In addition we see increased demand for replacement purchases as well as discretionary purchases driven by improving consumer confidence.
We continue to invest in innovative new products.
We are seeing the benefits of our cost and capacity reduction initiatives as well as our ongoing cost productivity programs.
And we remain focused in growing beyond our core business.
Turning to Slide 11 you can see a couple of examples of our leading innovative products in the North America region with the industry's first induction double-oven freestanding range and KitchenAid brand's new 5-speed Diamond blenders.
I will now talk to the third quarter results for our Europe Middle East and Africa region as shown in Slide 13.
As discussed in our last earnings call our first milestone for Europe was to bring the operations back to breakeven and this is what we achieved during Q3.
Our breakeven results for the quarter reflect a weak but stabilizing market environment in the Eurozone.
Sales were $778 million compared to $702 million in the prior year.
Excluding currency sales increased 5% year-over-year driven by higher volumes.
Operating profit improved by $36 million and operating margins improved 520 basis points compared to the prior year period.
Higher sales ongoing cost productivity and benefits from cost and capacity reduction initiatives more than offset higher material costs.
And we will continue to evaluate and take all actions necessary to ensure this positive trend in operating margin growth continues.
Turning to Slide 14 you can see a couple of examples of our leading innovative products in this region with the Bauknecht UltimateCare washer and the Bauknecht dishwasher with PowerClean+.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Mike.
Thanks Marc.
If you turn to Slide 16 you'll see our Latin America third quarter results which highlight our sixth conservative quarter of year-over-year ongoing business operations margin expansion.
Sales for the quarter were $1.1 billion compared to $1.2 billion in the prior year.
Excluding currency translation and BEFIEX sales were down less than 1% to the previous year as temporary reduction in global compressor sales was partially offset by growth in core appliances through increased market share.
GAAP operating profit for the quarter totaled $133 million compared to $118 million in the prior year.
On an adjusted basis excluding Brazilian tax credits our operating profit for the quarter totaled $104 million 9.4% of sales compared to $105 million or 8.8% of sales in the prior year.
Ongoing cost productivity offset higher material costs and foreign currency.
Now let me take a couple of minutes to talk about the region in general on Slide 17.
The temporary reduction in global compressor sales stemmed from onetime events including an unplanned port closure that delayed shipments as well as some isolated trade customer inventory adjustments.
The appliance industry in Brazil was flat for the quarter given the negative impact from currency changes and inflation on the consumer.
At this point given other environmental issues we do not expect the government loan subsidy program in Brazil to have a relevant impact for appliances.
However we are now seeing a pickup in demand and expect that to continue in the fourth quarter.
So for the full year industry growth forecast we expect a positive 1%.
It is also important to note that we had strong appliance growth through increased market share as our innovative new product launches win with consumers.
So we expect our business in this region to outperform the industry resulting in strong revenue and earnings growth going forward.
We continue to be very positive about the long-term trend in Brazil given the low penetration rate of appliances the emerging middle class and strong underlying economic fundamentals.
Slide 18 shows how we continue to capitalize on the opportunity for growth with product leadership in Latin America.
For this quarter we've highlighted the Consul Bem Estar refrigerators.
Our third quarter results in the Asia region are shown on Slide 20.
Net sales during the quarter were $197 million compared to $201 million in the prior year.
Excluding the impact of currency sales increased approximately 2%.
Operating profit of $7 million was approximately 4% of sales flat from the prior year as growth in China favorable price and mix as well as ongoing cost productivity was offset by industry weakness in India increased raw material cost and foreign currency.
One last note on our Asia region.
We were pleased to announce our intent to become majority shareholder of Hefei Sanyo and accelerate our growth in the emerging Chinese market.
The regulatory approval process remains on track and as we previously stated we expect the transaction to close by the end of 2014.
Slide 21 shows a couple of examples of our product leadership in Asia.
For this quarter we've highlighted 2 refrigerators: the Whirlpool Neo iChill and the Whirlpool Beijing Opera.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Larry.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Overall the underlying fundamentals of our business continue to remain strong as evidenced by another quarter of bulk sales growth and margin expansion.
We continue to manage effectively through short-term volatility in demand and unfavorable currencies across the globe.
Given our strong operating results for the first 3 quarters we are again raising our full year guidance today.
Turning to Slide 23 you can see we now expect to deliver annual GAAP EPS in the range of $10.45 to $10.65 per share and ongoing business operations EPS of $9.90 to $10.10 per share.
We are also raising our expectations for 2013 free cash flow to be in the range of $690 million to $710 million.
Before I move on as a general reminder Slides 33 to 41 in the appendix provide you with a reconciliation of our reported GAAP operating profit and EPS to ongoing business operations for 2013 and 2012 and reported GAAP cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow.
On Slide 24 you will note that we continue to execute our margin expansion actions.
In both the third quarter and year-to-date we drove a 170 basis point improvement in ongoing business operating profit margin.
Price mix is on track and we continue to expect to realize 0.5 points for the full year.
Our cost and capacity reduction initiatives contributed 1 point consistent with our full year guidance.
Net cost productivity was positive year-to-date as our actions more than offset material cost inflation of approximately $120 million to the first 9 months of the year.
For the full year productivity will more than offset approximately $180 million to $200 million of material cost inflation.
We expect net cost productivity to deliver approximately 0.5 points in margin for 2013.
Increases in marketing technology and product investments are expected to reduce margins by approximately 0.5 points for the full year.
As we manage all these margin drivers we expect to deliver an ongoing business operating margin of greater than 7% and we remain on track for our 8% margin target in 2014.
Moving to the financial summary on Slide 25.
Reported net sales were $4.7 billion compared to $4.5 billion [ph] last year.
Excluding the impact of both foreign currency and BEFIEX sales were up over 5% compared to the prior year primarily driven by strong growth in North America.
Third quarter ongoing business operating profit increased 34% to $353 million up from $262 million in the prior year driven by higher sales ongoing cost productivity and the benefit from cost and capacity reductions more than offsetting higher material cost and unfavorable currency.
The graph on Slide 27 illustrates expenses associated with our cost and capacity reduction program.
The program results continue to be strong.
For the full year we still expect our program expense to be approximately $185 million and we will deliver $175 million of operating profit benefit.
We remain firmly on track to deliver the full $400 million in benefits we announced when the plan was initiated.
On Slide 28 you see that our actions to deploy cash this year are aligned with our previously communicated priorities which include funding the business for growth including capital expenditures refinancing our long-term debt maturities and contributing to our pension.
We are also returning to our shareholders through an increased dividend.
And since resuming our share repurchase program earlier this year we have repurchased $140 million of company stock leaving $210 million in funds remaining under our existing board authorization.
Also as Mike mentioned we are on track to acquire a 51% majority stake in China's Hefei Sanyo at the end of 2014.
Finally in regards to next year's company outlook and consistent with prior years' practice we will provide guidance for 2014 during our next conference call in late January early February.
However we do anticipate continued earnings improvement driven by both revenue growth and margin expansion.
And given our cash flow generating capability and strong balance sheet we will continue balancing funding for all aspects of our business to ensure the best long-term value creation for our shareholders.
Now I'll turn it back over to Jeff.
Thanks Larry.
Let me summarize on Slide 30.
As we've said both year-to-date and for the quarter we're pleased with the progress that we're making in our results.
And as we indicated we have raised our guidance for 2013.
Looking ahead although we're not providing today any 2014 guidance I did want to make clear the trends that we're seeing in the business.
Overall globally although varied by market we are seeing demand trends improving.
We're very positive about our robust pipeline of new innovative products and we expect it to have a positive impact on our customers and drive further revenue growth.
We are seeing material costs although still increasing seeing the rate of that increase stabilizing.
And we fully expect the current trends that we see in our business and our positive momentum to carry over through the fourth quarter and into next year.
We also expect to get through the currency fluctuation impacts that we experienced in the first 3 quarters of the year.
So as a result we are generating very strong underlying cash and growing our investment capacity to deliver upon our cash priorities.
Finally I would turn to Slide 31 and just say this is a slide we first introduced to investors in the fall of 2010 and say that we remain very confident in our opportunities to grow our business expand our margins and generate strong free cash flow.
We are executing on our long-term growth strategy to remain focused on delivering our shareholder value creation targets.
So with that I'd like to open the line up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
This is Tom Mahoney on for Eric this morning.
A question on the North America guidance for the fourth quarter.
It looks like you're implying industry shipments up in the 10% range which is pretty similar to what the industry did in the third quarter.
What are you seeing in the market that gives you confidence in that forecast relative to the softer September shipment number we saw? Tom it's Marc Bitzer.
Let me try to answer it and break it up in pieces.
First of all I mean the overall industry again August the industry was up 15%.
September was "only" up 6% but the entire Q3 was strong at 10.4%.
And basically what we're saying we see the current momentum continuing into Q4.
Let me make a couple of comments on some noise which was out there towards the end of the quarter beginning of October.
First of all and we made this point earlier I would be extremely cautious looking at weekly industry shipment data.
Depending on where certain shipments fall into that can make a big difference.
For example we know at least one big retailer who took Black Friday shipments in August as compared to September last year and that makes a big difference.
More importantly to keep in mind that the data you sometimes see is shipment data.
That is not sell-through data.
If you would look at the sell-through data and we have about 70% of our retailers participating we saw a small decline towards the end of September October.
By the same token the early indicators of last week are somewhere between strong and extremely strong.
That's why I'm saying be careful about weekly shipment data.
And we saw a small blip but it's completely normalized and that gives us a lot of confidence about the Q4 industry shipments.
Great.
And then what is the driver if you guys outperformed AHAM 6 on your unit shipments in the third quarter? What is the driver of that and what has changed relative to the first half where you underperformed? And specifically what areas in North America are you gaining share? Tom it's again Marc Bitzer.
Repeating a comment which we made at other earnings call you're comparing T6 industry shipments with our overall unit shipments as we publish it.
So there's a lot of things in units outside T6.
There's also other products like kitchen and small domestic appliances which had a very strong Q3.
So overall unit shipments which we publish are a lot of elements way more than the just pure T6 where we look at the industry data -- or T7.
Having said that if you would just focus on the T7 and T6 I would say our market share is overall slightly stable and slightly down on a year-over-year basis.
So it's not that we're kind of picking up huge market share but we're pretty stable which is a reflection of strong product launches which we had.
That's a positive.
At the same time we continue to stand firm on our promotional policy which also means during the July promotion period we lost a little bit of share and picked it up back in August September.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> My first question on North America the improvement that you continue to see there is solid.
And with an 11% margin this quarter you're kind of getting back to the 11% type of margin that you did mid-cycle last cycle.
And so my question is kind of twofold.
One do you remain confident? During the last quarter you saw a little bit of blip up in promotional activity and I think during the past cycle that pricing was a little bit more of an issue.
Any update in terms of promotional activities as you've seen them year-to-date relative to your expectations? And I think bigger picture do you see any structural changes in the industry particularly in the competitive makeup of North America the competitive marketplace that would or would not support margins in North America being higher this cycle than previous cycle? Mike it's Marc Bitzer.
Let me try to answer your question which obviously has several pieces in there.
Let me first make a comment on your word of mid-cycle.
Mid-cycle implies that it's a normal cycle up and down.
And I would like to remind ourselves last year same period we already were trending towards operating margin of 7% or 8% in a bad industry environment.
So what I would see right now is to some extent driven by industry but to a much larger extent driven by the actions which we took out on cost productivity pricing capacity reduction et cetera.
So we're kind of starting if you want to say for this industry cycle on a much much stronger base than I would say and would argue compared to previous periods.
So that's a big difference which also means the industry volume is only one part of our strong margins but not the only one.
To your question about promotional activities yes we did see a slightly increased promotional activity by certain competitors who went pretty long on Black -- not Black Friday on July 4th.
We saw normal activities what I would call or as-expected activities around Labor Day.
It's difficult to forecast what happens around Black Friday.
And as you know we don't comment on our future promotion plans.
But I would argue and we made the same comment in the Q2 earnings call Q3 shows we stand firm behind our promotion policy which means we will participate but we will not participate when there is no value creation for either us or the trade partner.
And Michael this is Larry.
One other thing and just speaking in general for the company when you talk about last cycle our fixed cost structure is much different now than it was back then.
So what you've seen in the last couple of quarters is the fact that we've seen revenue improvement volume increase on a much smaller fixed cost structure.
So what you're actually seeing is just the power of the leverage.
Research Division</strong> No great I appreciate that.
And I guess just flipping to the top line as my second question.
You referred throughout the presentation or here and there and certainly it's a big part of your longer-term strategy in terms of expanding adjacent revenue streams growing beyond the core.
I was wondering if you could give us a sense of with the growth that you're seeing this year the volume growth either globally or even by region would be more helpful what you estimate that might have contributed to your results this year.
And how do you think of that adjacent -- those adjacent streams -- of the 5% to 7% revenue growth is that another -- is that a 1% to 2% driver or how do you think about that? So kind of bigger picture but also if you could provide any granularity on how it helped in 2013.
Mike I can give you directionally what we're doing there.
There's a lot of different pieces of our extend businesses.
And again extend businesses are businesses that we're able to create revenues off of because of our strong core.
And the expand businesses are let's say new or expanded spaces that we can apply our brands and operating execution to.
And so it's a wide variety portfolio but it's very tied to those 2 things.
And I would say with the exception of global compressors they're all growing.
And as I had indicated before we would expect them to grow at about twice the rate of our global core appliance business if you will.
I would say this year they're probably -- they're growing much faster than our global core appliance business.
And they have very attractive margins that improve with that growth.
So it's meaningful.
In total it's over 25 -- or over 20% of our total revenues.
It's growing at a faster rate.
There's many different examples we could use but -- and it varies a little bit around the world.
But particularly in Latin America and North America we have a very strong portfolio of these business activities that are working very well right now.
And we'll take our next question from David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
I guess just to pick up on Michael's question on the North America margins if you take a look at where you were prior to Maytag I mean he was talking about 11% as mid-cycle.
I remember quite a few quarters where you were putting up 12% kind of numbers and even I'd say 1 or 2 where you were pulling up a 13% handle.
If you take kind of the capacity utilization numbers you've shared with us in the past and you take the contribution margin numbers you've shared with us in the past and you extrapolate that it's pretty easy to get to kind of mid-teens margins for North America at full capacity.
So why are we wrong to think about that as -- and I realize you can't control when you get to full capacity.
That's a cyclical phenomenon.
But why are we wrong to think about mid-cycle -- or peak margins as being mid-teens numbers? David let me maybe take the macro view of that and then I'd ask Marc to add his comments.
First of all I'd go back a little bit back to Marc's comment.
I'm not sure that we could compare this to past cycles because the downturn was unlike any cycle we've ever seen.
And so -- but on the demand we're bullish in North America and let's be clear particularly in the United States.
And that is because from peak to trough we're down 28%.
The market is up 8% to 9% so far this year.
So we still have a long way to go in terms of the drivers of demand.
The housing market is moving in the right direction we're very bullish on that.
We think we'll see over time an acceleration in the replacement cycle based on the installed base.
We expect to see -- and then very positively have seen the return of discretionary purchasers.
So I think we're as we've said before at the beginning of a 3- or 5-year up cycle in demand.
So your comment about increased production demand on capacity it should be a positive productivity driver for us.
The other thing though that I want to just make sure is clear with everyone on the call is it's a little bit comparing apples to oranges.
The Whirlpool North America business today is the North America business 10 years ago.
Post-Maytag our portfolio mix changed dramatically.
Now of course we didn't -- it was not obvious to people because of the incredible downturn we saw in demand.
But today our brand -- our sale of products is significantly weighted toward own brands versus in the past a very high preponderance of OEM.
That's a plus mix factor for us.
We had elements of extend and expand.
We now have businesses of extend and expand.
And I don't want to miss out on what I think is the most important is our rate of innovation and the kings of innovation is stronger than it's ever been.
It's not even comparable to 10 years ago.
So our portfolio is different today than it was a decade ago.
So we're not going to give you a margin number.
I would just say that we're committed to value creation.
We're committed to both growth and margin expansion and I think we have the tools to do that.
David it's Marc.
Just to add a few comments on this one.
First of all just to echo what Jeff was saying if you come back to this word of mid-cycle.
If you look at the industry demand I would strongly argue we're way way earlier than mid-cycle probably in the early innings of an industry recovery.
And if you would look at typical demand cycles even at the current growth rates the industry is still below long-term trends.
So we're far away from even remotely being at a mid-cycle in industry demand.
So with this demand side yes I would say we're very bullish.
Your question about the margin expectation of course we can't specify the exact margin forecast.
To your point it's driven by a number of factors.
Capacity utilization or fixed cost leverage because there's more than just factory capacity is a big driver.
And from that perspective we are probably in a better shape than we ever have been post-Maytag.
The other parameters are materials.
We can expect this leverage of commodity to cycle over and up but right now we see moderate materials.
So that's the good news.
But then you also have pricing promotional activity versus volume and as you can imagine even with healthier margins we are driving for -- harder for revenue growth.
And that is an everyday decision which we will continue to evaluate as we go into the respective quarters.
But there's a couple of fundamental drivers which are part of this but we also got to remind ourselves we're living in a competitive environment.
Great.
Well that was a great answer.
Maybe I should've asked why we shouldn't expect high-teens margins.
On Brazil I wonder if you could just dig a little further into that.
You put up a great volume number despite the fact it sounds like your compressor units were down year-over-year.
Can you just maybe break out for us how much of this might have been just acquired listings from sort of lost share by Mabe versus the innovation and the new product development? And then maybe you could just give us a feel for what non-Brazil versus Brazil look like.
David it's Mike Todman.
First of all let me just say at the margin the impact on price mix was positive for the quarter.
So I think it's important to note -- to differentiate between ASVs and margin on price mix.
And at the margin we had -- actually it was very strong and we had good improvement.
With respect to the overall ASVs and sales I commented in the script on -- specifically on compressor sales and we think we see those as just onetime temporary issues.
We also did gain share in some categories that have lower price points.
And so the fact of the matter is that did depress if you will our overall ASV but those categories have very positive margins.
So we actually felt -- we felt really good about the margins there.
Outside of Brazil we've got some markets that are very strong for us and where we had good growth.
But then we've got markets like Argentina and Venezuela where the demand was depressed.
So overall I'd say it was about stable.
It was even if you take those 2 things in consideration.
Can you remind us what the percentage breakdown is between Brazil non-Brazil and in Broco? The percentage of Brazil non-Brazil I believe probably around 60% of compressors would be Brazil.
But in appliances? No the Brazil appliance business...
Was about $1.5 billion in total.
Okay.
Just last question if I could quickly.
If you could talk about the Chinese acquisition and I guess the growth strategy once the deal closes? What's the 24-month to-do list look like? And how capital-intensive will that be? David it's a little bit premature to talk about that.
We're going through the regulatory approval process.
Once we get through that process we'll then provide a lot more color in terms of what we expect.
I'll just -- suffice it to say we're expecting some very positive contributions from the business and at very reasonable investment levels.
And we'll take our next question from Denise Chai with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just want to ask some more questions on Latin America.
We've been seeing some very positive data points from the big retailers in Brazil.
So could you explain a bit about why you don't expect the subsidy program to have a relevant impact for appliances? Yes.
Denise it's Mike Todman.
Right now we have not seen a huge demand increase from that.
What we have seen is -- and the overall Brazil market in the quarter was actually flat.
So there's just the -- that's just distribution changes between different retailers.
We have picked up a lot of share so actually we saw significant share growth in Brazil for the quarter.
And we are now seeing some more positive consumer demand.
So we're seeing in the fourth quarter pretty strong demand coming through but we don't think that that's just the appliance program.
We think it's the overall consumer sentiment you've seen that currency rates now stabilized and it's those kind of things in the environment.
Research Division</strong> Great okay.
And in Latin America I believe you used to say that your market share was about 40%.
Could you update us on that? Yes we gained about 5 points of share so we were up in the quarter to about 45%.
Research Division</strong> Wow okay.
And just lastly so -- I mean you lowered your Latin America industry volume guidance but your volumes have been so strong.
So I mean could you comment a little bit more on the competitive environment and just where your share's been coming from and also on the pricing environment please? Yes.
Well I think you know the competitive environment we have one competitor who declared bankruptcy and that's certainly been an opportunity for us.
We continue to launch new products and new innovations into the marketplace and so that's had a very positive impact for us.
In fact actually we've taken price increases in the marketplace because of the currency and high inflation to be able to cover that.
So that's been a positive as well.
So overall we feel pretty good about where this market is and where it's going.
And we'll take our next question from Ken Zener with KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> Jeff Marc Larry.
11%.
The last time you did that was 1Q '04.
Can you talk about in North America how the seasonality of the business impacts margins to help give us a reference point for the current level of margins kind of on a sequential basis? Ken it's Marc Bitzer.
And first of all let me add a general comment.
I would say the North America margin seasonality is probably less compared to Latin America or Europe.
I mean you just have much more seasonal blips.
And so I would say in general terms the seasonality in our North America business is fairly limited.
There's a couple of pluses and minuses.
But take for example Q4.
Yes you have a fairly long holiday period which -- that you have lower margin.
On the other hand you have other businesses around kitchen and small domestic which are more attractive so it's pretty much a balance act.
Typically our Q3 and Q4 are slightly more profitable than the first 2 quarters but only to a lesser extent.
So in general terms I wouldn't look at right now Q3 and Q4 season numbers.
I would rather call them run rates.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The 9% you're pretty much that range for 4Q.
Obviously you talked about people's perhaps misinterpretation of volatile weekly data vis-à-vis shipments vis-à-vis POS so I appreciate that.
Could you give us a little more granularity around the contractor versus the replacement splits that you guys are seeing out there in North America? Ken again it's Marc Bitzer.
I mean obviously we don't break down the forecast in terms of contract versus retail.
But let me just...
Research Division</strong> Or just the quarter.
Let me -- just for Q3 the business which we call contract i.e.
these are the national large national builders and also some of the small builders has been very strong.
We're talking about in the ballpark of 40% to 60% up.
So this industry is growing exceptionally strong.
I know there's been a lot of press reports about housing slowing down.
We don't see that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
When we think about your 4Q can you just give us a sense for where -- how much inventory -- and it varies by some of the channels obviously but how much visibility you have into your forward activity? So if there are 2 weeks I know retailers might have 2 weeks some retailers don't have large inventory.
Builders you have larger visibility because you bring your product in at the very end.
But could you give us a sense how much insight you have? Or do you focus more on the inventory levels that are there or more on the POS? How should we think about that? Again Ken it's Marc Bitzer.
I mean as much as we look about POS we strongly look at inventory data from our retailers.
And we typically have 70% 80% of our retailers give us our -- their inventory data so we have a pretty good visibility on this one.
And yes you're correct it's a wide range.
Some retailers they don't hold inventory.
Some other ones have 7% or 8% inventory.
I would say the overall inventory level with some pluses and minuses end of Q3 were balanced i.e.
there has not been significant inventory build.
And we have also a little bit of inventory build towards the end of August.
By the end of September that's pretty much balanced out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now the margin gains that we did see could you kind of help us think about -- I think Larry you kind of talked about a 20% general EBIT operating leverage in the business.
I assume that's tied to volume.
Can you tell us if that's correct a? And then b the improvement how much of that is price mix and how should we think about that? Yes I think -- again I think the incremental margins in general are right around what you had said around 20%.
What we saw in Q3 was about 0.5 point positive price mix.
The cost and capacity reduction program contributed about 1 point.
We were able to offset -- more than offset material cost and delivered about 0.5 points of productivity.
And then marketing technology and product investments was approximately about 0.5 points.
So we ended the quarter at about 7% to 8% [ph] profit margin.
And the numbers I gave you is pretty much how we see the full year shaping up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question do appreciate it what are you going to do with all this cash you're generating? I mean you've highlighted this Hefei [indiscernible] absorbed 500 and change of capital at some point at the end of 2014.
Given the generation of cash more of it abroad than domestic how do you guys look to deploy that capital? And what vehicles would you have to bring it back to the U.S.
where you could pursue more share repurchase programs? Yes I guess I think we've been pretty consistent about usages of cash and we're doing everything we spoke about earlier.
So we increased the dividend this year.
We did begin repurchasing stock.
Mike talked about the Hefei Sanyo acquisition.
And in addition to that we continue to fund the business.
So those are really the levers that we continue to look at over time as the company generates cash and we look at all of them.
So that would be how we would utilize cash going forward.
As far as cash and cash location we look for tax-efficient ways to bring cash back in to deploy cash.
And certainly in this case -- and if we have a great opportunity on an international opportunity in China that's going to be very value-creating for the company and so what you've seen us is deploy cash and we will deploy cash into China.
And our next question comes from Sam Darkatsh with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two thrusts of my questions.
First off I noticed that the marketing and technology R&amp;D costs are now less of a headwind by about 0.5 points on the margin for the year.
What's the reasoning behind that? It seems -- I mean superficially at least from externally it looks like you had a little bit more raw material inflation and you're maybe offsetting it with less R&amp;D and marketing costs.
Am I looking at that wrong? Sam this is Larry.
I think probably what you're seeing is as Jeff talked about earlier industry guidance went up so our sales forecast is up a bit.
So we're getting a little bit more leverage on the dollars.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the absolute level of spending has not changed there.
Is that accurate? That's correct.
We're still spending incremental dollars this year over last year so yes that's true.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
Next question and this is even more fine-tuning around Latin America can you quantify the compressor negative impact -- or what compressors were down in the quarter and -- both on a sales and possibly an EBIT line for us? Then I've got a couple of quick follow-ups in Latin America also.
Sam this is Larry again.
Let me do it this way because there are some nuances in Latin America when you look at ASVs.
So within sales you have a mix -- as you know you have a mix of appliances and compressors.
And our reported units are only appliances.
We do not report units of compressors.
So if you were to do an apples-to-apples comparison and added the units to the compressors in sales along with appliances our ASVs were actually up.
That's pretty much what I can provide you with.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So your ASVs were up.
But can you help us with respect to what compressors were down and whether that's going to be a bleed-over into Q4? They were down -- again Mike mentioned temporary reduction.
So they were down in the double digits and we do expect that to recover.
Sam just to add to that I would say that what we expect is growth when you look at our total our business in the fourth quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then BEFIEX remaining and I noticed the run rate in Q4 is only $5 million.
What do you expect the run rate for '14? And then also for your industry growth expectation in Latin America of 1% for the year can you remind us what that implies for fourth quarter industry shipments? A couple of questions.
Let's handle BEFIEX first.
We expect to end the year with around $90 million of credits as we've talked before.
About $50 million of that is related to legal fees which we will not collect for several years.
So really you're talking a very small amount that would be monetized in 2014 around $40 million.
That was your question in regards to BEFIEX.
And what was your other question? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Your 1% growth in Latin America for the year -- for the industry growth.
What does that mean for Q4 specifically for the industry? You're probably talking up mid-single digits.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Up mid-single digits? Yes.
And I'd now like to turn the call back to our speakers for closing remarks.
Well listen everyone.
Again we're pleased with the progress that we've made.
Appreciate you participating on this call and we'll look forward to updating you in late January.
So thank you very much.
This concludes today's program.
You may disconnect at this time.
Thank you and have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to the Whirlpool Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Senior Director of Investor Relations Joe Lovechio.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Whirlpool Corporation Fourth Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Joining me today are Jeff Fettig our Chairman and CEO; Presidents Mike Todman and Marc Bitzer; as well as Larry Venturelli our Chief Financial Officer.
Our remarks today track with the presentation available on the Investors section of our website at whirlpoolcorp.com.
Before we begin let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements to assist you in understanding Whirlpool Corporation's future expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially from these statements due to many factors discussed in our latest 8-K 10-K and 10-Q as well as in the appendix of this presentation.
Turning to Slide 3 we want to remind you that today's presentation includes non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures are important indicators of our operations as they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to results from our ongoing business operations.
We also think that the adjusted measures will provide you with a better baseline for analyzing trends in our ongoing business operations.
Listeners are directed to the appendix section of our presentation beginning on Slide 42 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP items to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
With that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Well good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
As you saw in the earnings release from early this morning the strong execution of our plans drove record earnings for our company in 2013.
We continue to successfully drive both revenue growth and margin expansion leveraging our industry-leading brands and innovating new product launches into the marketplace.
This marks the eighth quarter in a row of ongoing business operations margin expansion for us.
And as a result we generated strong cash flow ending the year with a very strong balance sheet and increased investment capacity.
Our full year 2013 results are summarized on Slide 6.
Our revenues were up over 4% versus last year excluding foreign currency and BEFIEX led by strong growth in our North American and Latin American businesses.
And in line with our previously increased guidance diluted earnings per share from ongoing business operations improved to $2.97 for the year or up 42% in total delivering $10.02 per share compared to $7.05 last year.
Our free cash flow tripled year-over-year with a $460 million increase to $690 million.
And overall we effectively deployed that cash in line with our previously discussed priorities.
So if you turn to Slide 7 and 8 we highlight our business priorities for 2014 building upon the progress we made last year.
Overall we remain very confident in our abilities to continue to grow revenues and expand margins.
As we expect to grow organically and improve our mix with our innovative new product launches we expect to continue to accelerate growth well beyond the core extend and expand businesses and we expect margin expansion with the execution of ongoing cost productivity programs additional cost and capacity reductions as well as improved price/mix and the impact on our margins.
We also expect to complete the acquisition as a majority shareholder of Hefei Sanyo which we expect will enable significant emerging market growth in China in the future.
All totaled we believe these actions will more than offset some headwinds that we see in 3 areas: one is continued increases in material and oil-related costs; second is the negative impact of foreign currency; and third is the inflation that we continue to see in emerging markets.
But as a result of this in total we do expect to be in a strong financial position to continue to invest strongly in our business and deliver strong levels of free cash flow.
Turning to Slide 9 you'll see our expectations on global demand which in total we expect to grow in 2014.
Our industry demand assumption for North America and in particular the U.S.
is for demand to grow 5% to 7% for the year as we continue to see growth in U.S.
housing the normal replacement cycle of appliances and improvement in discretionary demand.
In Europe we expect flat to up -- the market to be flat to up 2% for the full year as the region remains somewhat weak but we are beginning to see some stabilization in this and some signs of recovery.
In Latin America we continue to expect to see inflation and currency fluctuations impacting consumer demand and consumer sentiment.
So for the full year our industry forecast at this time is expected to be basically flat.
And lastly we expect Asia forecast to be up to -- flat to up 3% for the full year primarily driven by strengthening Chinese market and offset by industry weakness that we continue to see in India.
But in total we do expect positive global industry demand for the year.
Finally turning to Slide 10 I would sum up by saying given the strong underlying trends in our business from both a revenue growth standpoint and a margin expansion we're giving our 2014 full year diluted GAAP EPS outlook in the range of $11.05 a share to $11.55 per share and our ongoing business operations outlook is $12 a share to $12.50 a share and this with also our free cash flow forecast of approximately $700 million.
Overall we remain confident in our abilities to continue to execute our plans and we expect to deliver another record year of performance.
So with that I'd like to turn it over to Marc Bitzer.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on Slide 12 by reviewing North America's performance in the fourth quarter starting with the top line.
Net sales of $2.7 billion for North America were up approximately 9% driven by higher volumes particularly in the U.S.
where revenue was up approximately 11% compared to prior year.
Strength in U.S.
particularly in the building channel was partially offset by industry weakness in Mexico and significantly negative currency impact in Canada.
Our ongoing business operating margins were 11% for the quarter with ongoing business operating profit of $301 million an all-time quarterly record compared to $233 million in 2012.
Higher sales ongoing productivity and restructuring benefits continue to be positive drivers in the fourth quarter more than offsetting higher material costs.
Overall ongoing business operating margins expanded by 1.7 points year-over-year.
Consistent and disciplined execution of our actions resulted in the ninth consecutive quarter of year-over-year ongoing business operating margin improvement.
Now let me take a moment to talk about our expectations for 2014 as shown in Slide 13.
Positive trends continue in both new construction and existing home sales and we see increased demand for normal replacement purchases as well as discretionary purchases driven by improving consumer confidence.
We remain focused in innovative products and growing beyond our core business and we expect positive net cost productivity and we will continue investments in marketing technology and products.
Turning to Slide 14 you can see just a few examples of our leading innovative products in the North American region.
First of all you see Whirlpool's brand new 4-door refrigerator that offers superior flexibility and energy efficiency.
The EveryDrop water filter by Whirlpool Water offers fresh filtered water at the speed of life which shows how we're growing beyond our core business.
We also highlight the Jenn-Air built-in coffee system featuring ideal brewing pressure for barista-sized drinks at home.
I will now shift gears to talk about the fourth quarter results for our Europe Middle East and Africa region as shown on Slide 16.
Despite a weak market environment we achieved positive operating profit for the quarter driven by the actions we've put in place.
Sales were $847 million compared to $794 million in the prior year.
Excluding currency sales increased 1% year-over-year driven by higher volumes.
Operating profit of $10 million improved by $2 million compared to the prior year and operating margins improved 20 basis points.
Now turning to Slide 17.
While the market environment in the Eurozone remains weak we expect normal seasonality and slow industry demand recovery to accelerate in the second half.
We expect to grow revenue organically and improve our mix with our innovative new product launches and grow beyond our core.
Margin growth will be driven by continued benefit of our ongoing cost productivity programs but are expected to more than offset higher material costs.
And also we expect further margin growth from our additional restructuring initiative which includes the recently announced closure of a plant in Sweden.
We will continue to evaluate all options necessary to ensure positive trends and operating margin growth to continue.
Turning to Slide 18 we are highlighting the Bauknecht brand KOSMOS built-in induction oven that integrates seamlessly into any kitchen and the Bauknecht GreenKitchen refrigerator and dishwasher that work together to save consumers water and energy.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Mike.
Thanks Marc.
If you turn to Slide 20 you'll see our Latin America fourth quarter results which highlight our seventh consecutive quarter of year-over-year ongoing business operations margin expansion.
Sales for the quarter were $1.4 billion compared to $1.3 billion in the prior year.
Excluding currency translation and BEFIEX sales increased more than 8% compared to the previous year due to continued growth in the core appliances and favorable product and price/mix.
GAAP operating profit for the quarter totaled $159 million compared to $134 million in the prior year.
On an adjusted basis our operating profit for the quarter totaled $130 million 9.7% of sales compared to $119 million or 9% of sales in the prior year.
Improved product price and mix including cost base price increases and ongoing productivity initiatives offset higher material costs and foreign currency for the quarter.
Turning to Slide 21 the appliance industry in the region for 2014 is expected to be flat as inflation and currency volatility throughout the region impacts demand.
However given our strong market position and the current competitive environment we expect to grow our revenue despite this environment.
Our innovative new product launches are winning with consumers and we remain focused on growing beyond our core business.
Even with this short-term volatility we continue to be very confident about the long-term fundamentals in Brazil.
Now let me take a couple of minutes to talk more about the region on Slide 22.
You can see that the long-term positive drivers outweigh the short-term uncertainties and challenges.
Both positive drivers are primarily related to Brazil and include population growth with an emerging middle class who has the ability to increase and upgrade the number of appliances in their home.
Brazil's strengthening domestic market real wage growth and low unemployment rates are also very positive drivers as we look at the fundamental economics.
LAR International our appliance business outside Brazil is made up of over 35 markets.
Some of them are up some down but LAR International in aggregate is fairly balanced even in the short term.
We continue to be confident about the long-term growth opportunity in these markets.
As we look at the uncertainties in the year the 2014 World Cup and government elections in Brazil may affect the consumer and business sentiments in the short term.
We also expect inflation pressures and currency fluctuations to have a negative impact on consumer demand especially in the first half.
However we will continue to manage through the short-term volatility and overcome the challenges just as we did last year.
Slide 23 shows how we continue to capitalize on the opportunities for growth with product leaderships in Latin America.
For this quarter we highlighted the Whirlpool Connect refrigerator with smart technology the Consul Facilite portable refrigerator and the Brastemp Ative! washer and dryer.
Our fourth quarter results in the Asia region are shown on Slide 25.
Net sales during the quarter were $177 million compared to $203 million in the prior year period.
Excluding the impact of currency sales decreased approximately 7%.
Operating profit of $10 million improved by $3 million and operating margins improved 210 basis points compared to the prior year period.
Favorable price and mix including cost base price increases as well as ongoing productivity offset industry weakness in India increased raw material cost and foreign currency.
Turning to Slide 26.
In 2014 we expect to continue managing through volatility in India and capitalize on the industry growth in China as well as leverage our new product launches.
Last August we were pleased to announce our intent to become the majority shareholder of Hefei Sanyo to accelerate our growth in the emerging Chinese market.
Earlier this month we welcomed the announcement that our acquisition proposal had received the second of the 2 key approvals required by -- from the Ministry of Commerce in China or MOFCOM those being the antitrust and foreign strategic investor approvals.
The transaction remains subject to approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission or CSRC certain other regulatory approvals required by the relative Chinese authorities and some other formalities.
At this time we expect the transaction to close any time between the end of the second quarter and the end of 2014.
Slide 27 shows a couple of examples of our product leadership in Asia.
For this quarter we've highlighted Whirlpool brand's Professional frost-free refrigerator with innovative 6th Sense Active Cool technology and the Whirlpool Armstrong total home laundry solution that includes a prewash station washer and storage.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Larry.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Let me start by making some comments on our fourth quarter results and then I'll transition to guidance for 2014.
Overall the underlying fundamentals of our business remains strong as evidenced by continued sales growth and margin expansion as well as a strong balance sheet.
As we have previously demonstrated we continued to effectively manage through short-term volatility in demand and unfavorable currencies across the globe.
Our strong execution throughout the year delivered record earnings.
On Slide 29 you will see how we expanded our margins with a balanced approach across multiple drivers.
For the year we exceeded the high end of our original guidance and drove a 160-basis-point improvement in ongoing business operating profit margin.
We realized a 0.5 point for the full year in price/mix.
Our cost and capacity reduction initiatives contributed 1 full point.
That productivity was positive and delivered approximately 0.5 point margin as our actions more than offset material cost inflation of approximately $180 million.
And as expected increases in marketing technology and product investments reduced margins by approximately 0.5 point.
Moving to the financial summary on Slides 30 and 31 reported net sales during the fourth quarter were $5.1 billion compared to $4.8 billion last year.
Excluding the impact of both currency and BEFIEX sales were up 7% primarily driven by strong growth in North America and Latin America.
Fourth quarter ongoing business operating profit increased 25% driven by higher sales ongoing productivity and the benefit from cost and capacity reductions more than offsetting higher material cost and unfavorable currency.
Graph on Slide 32 illustrates expenses associated with our cost and capacity reduction initiative.
The actions we have been taking over the past couple of years and into 2014 represent a generational change for our footprint and cost structure.
Through 2013 we have delivered the $400 million of benefits we laid out in Q4 2011.
For the full year our program expenses were $196 million and we delivered approximately $175 million of benefit.
As Marc mentioned earlier we have taken additional cost and capacity reduction actions to address the weak but recovering European market and to continue to expand our margins.
For the full year 2014 we expect approximately $100 million of charges and $80 million of ongoing benefits.
As Jeff introduced earlier on the call our 2014 guidance as shown on Slide 33.
We expect to deliver annual diluted GAAP EPS in the range of $11.05 to $11.55 per share and annual ongoing business operations EPS of $12 to $12.50.
Our expectations for free cash flow are approximately $700 million of which I will provide more detail shortly.
On Slide 34 you can see the reconciliation from diluted GAAP EPS with ongoing business operations EPS for 2014.
As we take appropriate actions in regards to our generational change in footprint and consistent with prior years we are adjusting diluted GAAP EPS for restructuring expense.
As we near the conclusion of benefits associated with the long-running program in Brazil we are also adjusting for the remaining BEFIEX tax credits of $16 million.
Consistent with 2013 we're adjusting for the onetime investment expenses of approximately $22 million that relate to the pending acquisition of Hefei Sanyo.
Lastly we expect our tax rate assumption for 2014 to be 24%.
On Slide 35 we expect the current year to deliver another balanced approach towards margin expansion resulting in an 8-plus percent margin.
For price/mix we expect a 0.5 to a full point of margin driven by cost base price increases as well as from innovative new product launches and growth beyond our core business.
Our cost and capacity reduction initiatives will drive a 0.5 point improvement.
We also expect positive net productivity to contribute 0.5 point in margin for 2014 as our actions more than offset material cost inflation of $150 million to $200 million.
And finally higher marketing technology and product investments are expected to reduce margins by about 0.5 point to a full point.
Now to provide a bit more clarity on our free cash flow expectations I'll refer to Slide 36.
Walking from our 2013 actual free cash flow to our 2014 outlook of $700 million there are several factors impacting the comparison.
Most notably you can see that we plan to utilize our increased earnings to drive enhanced investments for growth and profitability.
Increased capital expenditures of $75 million will support continual product innovation for consumers.
Higher restructuring cash of approximately $45 million will support continued margin expansion.
Working capital is essentially neutral year-over-year.
Due to the requirements of the pension relief program enacted in 2011 our U.S.
pension contributions are required to increase approximately $45 million this year.
However it's important to note that our U.S.
GAAP pension obligation was cut in half during 2013 and has been lowered to $700 million.
Lastly we will monetize $90 million less BEFIEX tax credits compared to last year.
Overall the underlying cash flow generation of the company remains very strong.
In total we continued making investments in our business to support our long-term growth and margin objectives.
As we have executed our plans to improve margins and grow revenues we have effectively deployed the cash generated from our business as shown on Slide 37.
During 2013 we increased our dividend and recently completed our share repurchase program.
Shareholders were also rewarded with a 54% increase in the company's stock price.
Moving into 2014 we will continue to fund the business for growth as I just mentioned including capital expenditures between $625 million and $675 million.
We plan to refinance our maturing debt.
Also as Mike mentioned we are on track with the acquisition of a majority stake in China's Hefei Sanyo.
Consistent with the past we will continue to update you with our future plans for use of cash.
In summary given our increased investment capacity and strong balance sheet we will continue balancing funding for all aspects of our business to ensure the best long-term value creation for our shareholders.
Now I'll turn it back over to Jeff.
Thank you Larry.
I'll turn to Slide 39 to summarize our remarks.
First of all I would say we're pleased with the actions that enabled us to deliver record results in 2013.
We have and we expect to continue to grow revenue expand our margins and we're firmly on track to deliver our 2014 objectives including 8% plus operating margins.
As we look ahead we're very well positioned to capitalize on positive global demand trends and we are very positive about our own robust pipeline and new innovative products for consumers that will enable us to grow faster and improve our mix.
The Hefei Sanyo acquisition provides a great opportunity for us for transformational growth in China.
We will continue to grow beyond our core business as we have been.
And as result we will have even more opportunities to grow our investment capacity and to deliver on our cash priorities.
Finally I'd like to turn to Slide 40 which should be familiar to you which is our road map for growth and value creation that we first introduced to investors in 2010.
I think we are now demonstrating that we have the capabilities to address challenges related to raw material cost rapidly changing global economies currency fluctuations inflation in emerging markets and value-destroying competition.
Given our success and current momentum we remain confident in our opportunities to grow the business expand our margins and generate strong free cash flow.
As we achieve our 8% plus operating margin and close the Hefei Sanyo transaction we will provide updates to our shareholder value creation targets at the appropriate time later in the year.
In the meantime we'll continue to invest in our long-term growth strategy and we're firmly on track to deliver our shareholder value creation targets and deliver another record year of operating performance.
So with that I'll -- that concludes our formal remarks.
We'd now like to open it up for Q&amp;A to the audience.
And we will take our first question from Ken Zener with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Currency.
If Latin America volume is flat in '14 could you describe the currency headwind you would expect at today's rates given the volatility we've seen week to week? We can see the fourth quarter currency hit but could you kind of frame out given that there's 35 different countries passing through in America what it would look like in terms of currency headwind so we can understand that? Yes this is Larry.
Let me give you a couple of comments.
First for the total year of '13 we absorbed -- effectively absorbed about $85 million of currency headwinds a lot of that occurring in the second half of the year.
For -- and I'm talking in globally.
For 2014 we'd expect total currency to be a headwind of around $50 million based on where currencies are today.
The majority of that a lot of percentage that happen in emerging markets but we will continue effectively navigate through currency headwinds just as we have over the last couple of years.
Maybe Ken I can just add to that specifically related to Latin America and just put it in perspective.
On -- with that currency headwind we still have been able to grow our market position and we still have been able to if you will balance off that currency with price increases that we've already taken.
So we certainly feel like we can deal with the current volatility that we have [ph].
And Ken just one other comment.
With really the currency you see a lot of discussion in the press.
If you look at our combined businesses we do in countries like Argentina Venezuela Turkey Russia South Africa these represent about 3% of our sales just to give you a little bit of perspective.
Research Division</strong> Could you restate those just for everyone's clarification again? If you look at countries like Argentina Venezuela Turkey Russia South Africa they represent about 3% of our total global sales.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
Moving to the U.S.
it's obviously very constant tension between market share and margins as any industry faces.
But given the margins that you had in North America were very good your North American volume did lag a hem by about 200 basis points.
So Jeff could you kind of comment if you'd be willing to go into a little more detail about obviously you're looking for profitable growth.
We do think a lot of pressure from the Korean firms has been -- is always there but you've been able to navigate it.
Could you just as you look back at 2013 reaffirm your view of how you can maintain share profitably and as it relates to the refrigerator comments you made that you are not pursuing the appeal despite the international -- the appeal decision that in fact the ITC might have been fought.
Is there a reason you're not pursuing that appeal as it relates to margins and market share? Okay.
Let me turn the first question over to Marc and he'll answer that.
Ken it's Marc Bitzer.
Let's first talk [ph] about the market share and the unit is 2-sided.
First of all and I think we made that comment several times in previous earnings calls the units which we report are not comparable to the AHAM market share unit.
Our units which we report include more than the so-called T7 includes the units which are T7 to T12 in U.S.
Of course it also includes Mexico and Canada.
So it's -- when you compare AHAM numbers with our reported unit you're not comparing apples-with-apples.
Not even apples with oranges and certainly.
As importantly our T7 market share which as you know we don't public detail -- our T7 market share in Q4 was stable sequentially and actually even up year-over-year.
So we are kind of -- from a market share perspective we are certainly solid right now at the current point.
And Ken regarding the fair trade question that you asked we did put out a statement earlier in the week which basically position or gave our position on the refrigeration ruling.
And let me make a couple of comments.
One as we said in the announcement dumping -- we have proven twice in both washers and refrigerators that dumping has occurred and we stated that we believe it's still occurring in the marketplace.
Secondly there is no question in terms of with the Department of Commerce and with the appeal that we are correct on -- in terms of bringing this fair trade issue to the table legally if you will.
We are pleased with and agreed with the appeal ruling from the trade court that the decision on the refrigeration case by the ITC was based on nonaccurate data but we also stepped back and said as we said in the release we're now talking about data that's from 2008 to 2011.
And in our view is that in 2014 the marketplace has changed prices have changed products have changed countries of origin have changed.
And given the time that it would take to continue to pursue this or affect ruling on this appeal we believe there are faster vehicles available to us to both monitor and address trade issues that we see in the United States.
So that was the basis.
We have a strong and unwavering commitment to fair trade enforcement and we'll continue to take the appropriate actions to monitor that.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
The last question if I may is your long-term guidance which at one point seemed long term of 8% margin is in fact your 2014 guidance despite obviously difficult Latin America guidance I would say.
So would you venture to give us what might be a medium-term guidance or thoughts given that long term is in fact your fiscal '14 guidance of 8% margin? Yes Ken.
Okay.
So I mean we've done our 2014 guidance and what I said and the question that's been asked before is is 8% plus the upper limit? And my answer has been no.
That's where we see 8% plus.
And what I said in my remarks is as we -- first of all we want to demonstrate we are in fact achieving that which we expect to do this year.
Second of all we have a very important [ph] acquisition which will positively affect both our revenue.
And if we look at their margins they're good.
And our -- my comments are is that there will be an appropriate time as we progress in our milestones in 2014 and update you and investors on a more medium- to longer-term value creation targets which we intend to do.
But for now I think that 2014 -- we've got 11 months to go and we'll focus on delivering 2014.
And we will next go to Denise Chai with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Could you -- let me see.
So just starting with your U.S.
guidance of 5% to 7% volume growth can you maybe break that down now for us into say replacements new build existing and discretionary demand? And how do you see the mix of that demands at this point? Denise good morning.
It's Marc Bitzer.
As opposed to breaking down let me just maybe give you a broader comment on the 5% to 7%.
First of all starting with lasted energy [ph] I mean we've shown in the Q4 and we pretty much came exact -- essentially exactly.
It's in the guidance of what we've communicated the 9%.
As we start the year we're starting off with a slightly softer January which is largely driven by fairly significant trade inventory corrections end of April.
Having said that we remain very positive about this year's and probably also mid-term trends for U.S.
market in both new constructions existing home sales and as you also pointed out we are hitting more and more of a normal replacement cycle i.e.
appliances which were bought in the peak of the market of 2004 to 2006.
So without breaking down into components but with both elements of the market replacement and new construction we see we have a very solid momentum and that's why we are still very bullish about the 5% to 7%.
And Denise I would add we've talked before about those 4 dimensions.
Replacement is in a -- and we're moving back towards a more normal market is in the high-40s to 50% of demand.
New construction as it starts to get back to what we think is replacement level should be around 15%.
Existing home sales is about 15% and the rest is discretionary.
And as we've pointed out at the end of the third quarter we're hitting the period where the first time in many many years where all 4 are growth and moving in the right direction which to Marc's point is why we're still bullish not only for this year but over the next coming years.
It's still about 15% below the peak of the industry through 2013 so a lot of opportunity there to...
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just turning to LatAm last year Mabe gave up a significant amount of share.
Can you kind of update us on where your share stands now? And also on pricing because I believe you took prices up mid single digits in Brazil sometime around June last year.
But was there a further increase in the fourth quarter? And given your more dominant market position how should we think about pricing going forward I mean obviously with the currency fluctuation? Well let me first answer the first and we closed the year up about 3 points of market share for our Brazil business.
And we expect with the product investments that we're making the innovation that we're bringing that we will continue to have good performance in the marketplace taking market share.
We did also announce after the June price increase the price increase that we are actually executing right now and we announced that for the 1st of January.
So we're in process of doing that and I really can't comment on any future increases.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the 1st of -- January 1 is that also mid single? Yes that's mid to high singles depending on...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And just one last thing about raw materials.
So can you give us maybe the dollar increase in raw material costs in 2013 and what you're expecting for 2014 now that you've done a lot of your negotiations? Yes.
We ended up 2013 with about $180 million of headwinds and we were forecasting for this year which we will offset with productivity is about $150 million to $200 million of raw material headwinds.
And we will next go to Megan McGrath with MKM partners.
Research Division</strong> Could you just clarify your comments on the retail inventory levels? I think you said that January is a bit weaker because of inventory and sort of compare it to what you're seeing what you saw last year.
Marc Bitzer.
Just my comments on the trade inventory correction.
Let me offer you the context.
We have -- of a vast majority of our retails we have a very good understanding and have exact data on what we call sell-through i.e.
what has been sold to the consumer and what we sell.
So we have a fairly good understanding of trade inventory moves.
And what we see this year coming out of 2013 into January [indiscernible] that was pretty much over last 12 weeks of significantly trade inventory reduction on the trade side.
There's a certain elements which is not surprising something in January [ph] but I would say the magnitude of what [indiscernible] this year clearly goes beyond what we've seen before to the point that I think some retailers with low -- they run very low in the inventory coming to February.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a little clarification.
I know it's small the percentage of your sales but clearly you're looking for the full year for the Asian market to improve versus what you saw in the fourth quarter.
Can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing there to get you to flat versus the mid single-digit unit decline you saw in the fourth quarter? Yes.
We are seeing a strong environment in China and we expect that that will continue.
There are -- India continues to be somewhat challenging but we are beginning to see some improvement in India.
And then there are all the markets around there is growth in those markets.
So we feel pretty good about what we're seeing out of China and some improvement that we're seeing in India.
And we will next go to the side of David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
Both Mike and Marc talked about growth beyond the core and I presume you're talking about your adjacencies business which you address in your IR deck.
Using the numbers that you cite in that deck it's about a $4 billion a year business.
It's basically -- you're pretty close to the European business in terms of its magnitude Europe and Asia together maybe.
Can you just talk about what you achieved in 2013 in terms of full year growth and sort of the look for 2014 in terms of what kind of growth we could expect and also not only growth in terms of revenues but growth in terms of margin contribution? Yes David.
This is Jeff.
We've got -- the way -- again this is for everyone's benefit.
We talk -- the way we look at our business in many different ways is we first look at them regionally we then look by product line and then -- we then introduce the concept that we talk about our core appliance business which there tends to be a fixation on T6 U.S.
business but it's really at least a T12 global business.
That we call our core business.
And then we look at categories which due to that strong core business we're able to extend revenues from that.
And then we talk about expand which is categories that aren't completely dependent up on the core but where we can bring our capabilities to expand our business scope.
And it's largely all around branded consumer products in around the home.
So with that definition I mean your math is roughly correct.
I think those categories which we look at internally there is extend and expand that cap about 23% of our revenue.
In total they're nicely profitable and we're growing as we said on value-creating objectives.
It varies per year and so on but roughly we expect to grow faster than our core business.
And I'll just give you 2 quick examples.
There's over 30 different categories in there so it's hard to really go -- and they vary in size from $10 million to $1.5 billion.
So -- but we manage virtually all of them discreetly.
And that -- I think that in terms of growth the 2 biggest growth generators right now are -- one is our KitchenAid small domestic appliance business which is strongest base is in North America but we are expanding it globally.
We're growing it very very strong double digits as we have for the last couple of years.
We're adding new product lines to that.
We're expanding into many many more markets around the world and it's a sustainable source of both growth and significant value creation.
Another interesting example which is a composite of many different things in different markets it's our overall water business.
You saw I think in -- Marc Bitzer showed a new-to-the-world product for us which is the Drop product in the United States which is a consumer product which we have now having many retailers across the United States.
It's a water filtration product.
We have a subscription model in Latin America that is meaningful and it grew 30% last year.
So -- and I could go through a whole written of those things.
But suffice to say our goals in this area is to continue to extend and expand.
We expect over time to grow this business as twice the rate as our total business and we have substantially higher margins.
So as we grow this business it will be a mix up to our total margins.
So that's the quick snapshot of that category.
And do you get growth in margin from where you are or are margins pretty much where they'll be now and it's really just about growing the revenues in that group? It's a little of both.
But I would say -- because where we have really good margins I would say we're reinvesting rapidly in expansion and advertising and things like that.
So -- but in terms of mix on our total margins I mean we have both.
We have some where we will also improve our margins substantially.
And where we have big positions high margins we basically are focusing just on growth.
And Jeff I realize there's a lot of categories there but would you say you have more pricing power in those categories than you do in the core 6? David over the last couple of years I mean our view is -- our -- very simply put as we talked before we're in the business of selling products at a profit and that applies to everything including the core business.
In the last couple years we've been able to do both.
We've gotten pricing on our core business and we're getting pricing on our extend and expand.
Last question just for Larry.
Two things can you talk about the interest in sundry expense line I got an $82 million versus $35 million and just what might have been going on in there? And then also on the balance sheet you had a $7 per share drop in your pension liability.
You went through that quickly in your prepared remarks but maybe you could just give us a little elaboration.
What was your question David on interest and sundry to change year-over-year? Is that what the question was? Yes your $82 million versus $35 million could you give us a look at what's going on? The delta is really related to a legal accrual that we took late in the year in interest and sundry.
That's what's driving that.
The pension liability quite frankly is a couple of things.
One is discount rates dropping and we've been saying for a while -- I'm sorry rising.
So if interest rates increase we would see a substantial decrease in our liability.
And the return on our assets have been pretty strong.
So in total for the company and I talked about the U.S.
pension liability which is the most -- the larger part of the liability we were about $1.4 billion in pension liability last year in the U.S.
and we're a little bit over $700 million this year.
So a significant significant decline in one of our legacy liabilities.
And we will next go to Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question I was hoping if possible to give a little more color on the price/mix benefit that you saw in 2013 and expect in '14.
And if it's possible to kind of give us a sense of which was the bigger driver price or mix and as you -- particularly as you expect that benefit to I believe improve in 2014? Yes Michael.
I would say overall our price/mix was positive.
It varied dramatically.
The source of that varied dramatically around the world.
I would say in our developed markets which is largely North America and Europe it was largely on the mix side.
In our emerging markets it was both like-for-like price increases which we executed throughout the year like in India and Brazil which we talked about as well as some positive mix contribution from product innovations.
As we look to 2014 we've talked about -- we had announced in many major markets around the world and have implemented or have announced we're implementing price increases based on the inflation that we're still seeing virtually -- it's for raw materials everywhere but high inflation particularly in emerging markets partly currency driven.
So we have -- that has been announced.
But in principle given the investments we're making in new product innovations we do expect to have a positive product mix as well.
So it will be a combination of both.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
And also on the interest expense -- I'm sorry the investment expense that is something you add back to get to your adjusted non-GAAP measure and this is also for guidance it looks like it's about $0.21 per share that you add back in '14.
It's about $0.19 in '13.
Is this something that you expect to eventually roll off or given that it's kind of -- you're expecting it 2 years in a row it seems to be different from a restructuring expense? Is this something that we might expect also in '15 and when would this eventually roll off? Michael it's Larry.
The expense in 2013 and '14 is related to the same things related to the Hefei Sanyo.
So obviously once we close on that that investment expense goes away and there's nothing that we carry over into '15.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just lastly if I could how are you thinking about the effective tax rate x BEFIEX in 2014? And also if you could give us a sense within the guidance of how you're thinking about the interest and sundry income and the interest expense lines? Yes.
In my prepared remarks Michael I said we expected about a 24% rate from a tax rate perspective in 2014.
Figure interest and sundry anywhere -- we figure around $95 million and a figure interest expense between $165 million and $170 million.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry just one more if I could squeeze in the share count also where did it end in '14? I would use what we ended at which is about $80 million.
And our final question comes from Sam Darkatsh with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions first housekeeping Larry while you're doing all these granular stuff change in pension expense on the P&amp;L in '14 I know you talked about the liability and the contribution but what about the P&amp;L impact? Yes.
Again just to remind you we closed the pension plan several years ago so it's not a big pickup.
It will probably be around $12 million lower between pension and post retirement.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So that will be an increase of $12 million on a year-on-year basis? A decrease of $12 million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A decrease or increase I'm sorry? Decrease.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Decrease.
Okay.
And I was hoping that you would say that.
Okay.
And then 2 final questions if I could.
I mean it seems as though if you go around the world in your industry expectations Europe Latin America and Asia even to an extent I guess U.S.
because of the channel inventory correction that you're really baking into your expectations improvements in the second half versus the first half.
You talked around a little bit Jeff about why you feel that might be the case.
But could you put a little bit more meat on the bone as to specifically what data points or channel anecdotes that you're seeing that gives you that confidence that things in the second half are going to be better than the first half? Because right now obviously the first quarter and first half we may not be seeing that.
I don't -- for the most -- I think the starting point I would say is that we expect at largely have our normal seasonality that we have in our business.
As I go around the route I don't necessarily look at it as first-half-second-half big change in North America or Europe other than we do believe in both developed markets that we have seen a slow generally positive trend that we expect to continue to build.
I think probably where there is a little bit of first-half-second-half expectation is in end markets like Latin America and India for one reason when we're facing -- again we talked about currencies as of today.
We still have year-over-year currency headwinds we've got to overcome.
And I think as those markets settle out you'll see a better -- start to see a better return to normalized growth which we don't expect to see in the first half.
So that's probably the 2 places in the world where we have a little bit of a first-half-second-half view of the world as our -- largely Latin America and India.
Everywhere else we look at basically normal seasonality.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then directionally market share expectations I know you talked about LatAm but you -- do you expect to gain share? I'm guessing some of that is going to be carryover from Mabe.
But on the other hand I think organically you're expecting to gain share also.
U.S.
and Europe directionally where do you expect your market share trends to be in 2014? Look Sam as we've discussed candidly with the investments we make in new product and so on we expect to always gain share with our new product innovations where we -- But having said that we want to do it profitably.
So I think everywhere where we introduce new products that are -- which is everywhere we have an expectation to gain share to some degree.
What we haven't changed is our expectation is that we will pursue loss-making share moves for the sake of share because that for us is obviously -- that is not an economically viable model.
Some may choose to do it we don't.
And so I guess our expectation on the year is everywhere we have a meaningful participation we would expect to grow our share.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> From a new product rollout standpoint is there a timing first half second half in terms of where you expect a bulk of your new product to be introduced? Not anymore Sam.
I mean it's -- we've got keen some pipeline innovation around the world.
You've asked me and others have in previous years what's your big innovation this year? It's hard to say because there are so many of them and we literally every month and certainly every quarter are bringing out meaningful innovation.
So it's kind of a continuous pull for us.
Well listen everyone thank you again for joining us today and we look forward to updating you at our next earnings call.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's program.
You may disconnect at any time.
Good morning and welcome to Whirlpool Corporation's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Senior Director of Investor Relations Joe Lovechio.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Whirlpool Corporation first quarter 2014 conference call.
Joining me today are Jeff Fettig our Chairman and CEO; Presidents Mike Todman and Marc Bitzer; as well as Larry Venturelli our Chief Financial Officer.
Our remarks today track with the presentation available on the Investors section of our website at whirlpoolcorp.com.
Before we begin let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements to assist you in understanding Whirlpool Corporation's future expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially from these statements due to many factors discussed in our latest 10-K and other periodic reports as well as in the appendix of the presentation.
Turning to Slide 3 we want to remind you that today's presentation includes non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures are important indicators of our operations as they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to results from our ongoing business operations.
We also think that the adjusted measures will provide you with a better baseline for analyzing trends in our ongoing business operations.
Listeners are directed to the appendix section of our presentation beginning on Slide 35 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP items to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
With that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us here today.
As you saw in our earnings release from earlier this morning we are very pleased with the progress that we made in the first quarter.
Despite some challenging global markets and foreign currency impacts we were able to deliver our fourth consecutive quarter of revenue growth and our ninth consecutive quarter of expanded margins which in total resulted in a record first quarter operating profit.
We have been able to do that while at the same time we're increasing our investments in our business to continue this profitable growth trend going forward.
Overall we're firmly on track and remain confident in delivering our operating profit margin guidance our earnings per share and our free cash flow guidance for 2014.
If you turn to Slide 6 I'll summarize our financial results starting with excluding the impact of foreign currency our revenues were up 6% versus last year.
Our ongoing business earnings per diluted share were up approximately 12% to $2.20 compared to $1.97 last year.
Next I'll turn to Slide 7 where our regional industry demand assumptions or forecasts that we gave you earlier have not changed.
For North America specifically in the U.S.
despite a challenging first part of the quarter we remain confident in our industry demand assumption of 5% to 7% demand growth for the year as we expect growth in U.S.
housing for the full year increased demand related to the replacement cycle of appliances and significant improvement in discretionary demand that we're currently seeing improving.
In Europe we continue to expect flat to up 2% industry for the full year as the region has stabilized and now is beginning to recover.
And for Latin America for the full year we expect a flat industry which is unchanged.
And finally our Asia forecast remains flat to up 3% but varies significantly across the region.
So in total we do continue to expect positive global demand for the full year.
Overall we remain confident in the underlying drivers of our business and our focus on multiple paths to drive profitable growth.
Our confidence in these areas has allowed us to significantly increase our investments in parts of our business continue our profitable growth trend as well as enhancing our returns to shareholders as demonstrated by our recently announced 20% dividend increase and the new $500 million share repurchase authorization.
So at this point in time I'll turn it over to Marc Bitzer.
Marc? Thanks Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
Let me begin on Slide 9 by reviewing North America's performance in the first quarter.
Starting with the top line in spite of flat industry driven mainly by the extreme weather in January and February our unit volumes were up approximately 4% as we gained market share in the quarter.
Net sales of $2.3 billion for North America were also up compared to the prior year period and up 5% excluding currency.
We saw gross margins expand by 60 basis points in the quarter due to higher sales and ongoing productivity more than offsetting higher material costs and unfavorable currency.
We also increased our investments for our brand marketing and support of new product launches to drive continued growth.
Our ongoing business operating margins were up approximately 10% for the quarter and a record first quarter ongoing business operating profit of $228 million compared to $218 million in the first quarter of 2013.
The consistent and disciplined execution of our actions resulted in the fourth quarter of year-over-year revenue growth and the 10th consecutive quarter of year-over-year ongoing business operating margin improvement.
Now let me take a moment to talk about our expectations for 2014 as shown on Slide 10.
While extreme weather created a temporary softness in U.S.
appliance demand in January and February of this year we've already seen a significant increase in March [indiscernible] industry up almost 9% and we continue to see positive trends in April.
Additionally we remain optimistic about both new construction and existing home sales and we see increased demand from normal replacement purchases as well as discretionary purchases driven by improving consumer confidence.
So we remain confident in our 2014 industry guidance of up 5% to 7% for the year and in addition we expect positive net cost productivity for our business.
We continue our focus on launching innovative new products especially in the second and third quarters of this year.
During this quarter we also have a few examples of how we're driving growth beyond our core business with our EveryDrop Water Filter and the expansion of our Greenville Ohio plant to increase our capacity for small domestic appliances just to name a few.
Turning to Slide 11 you can see an example of our increased investments in marketing technology and products as we highlight a new phase of dependability for our Maytag brand with a massive TV and print ad campaign.
On this page you see our durable reliable and powerful Maytag knobs and handles as well as a couple of [indiscernible] marketing pieces for our Maytag laundry and dishwasher products.
I will now talk to our first quarter results for our Europe Middle East and Africa region as shown on Slide 13.
Sales were $720 million compared to $668 million in the prior year.
Excluding currency sales increased approximately 4% for year driven by higher volumes from share gains and growth in our small domestic appliance business.
The cost and capacity reduction initiative we put in place last year combined with ongoing productivity helped to deliver another quarter of positive operating profit.
The operating profit of $7 million improved by $15 million compared to the prior year period and the operating margins improved 220 basis points.
Now turning to Slide 14 while the market environment in the Eurozone remained somewhat soft we are seeing some recovery and expect normal seasonality as we progress throughout the year.
We expect positive operating profits and margin expansion driven by continued benefit from our ongoing cost productivity programs and our previously announced restructuring initiatives and we continue to focus on our innovative new product launches and growth beyond our core.
Turning to Slide 15 we're highlighting a new line of gas cooktops with glass surfaces and these cooktops have multiple design to complement a variety of kitchen styles high power high efficiency burners to reduce cooking times and twin and full-coverage grids that allow maximum flexibility for our consumers.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Mike.
Thanks Marc.
If you turn to Slide 17 you'll see our Latin America results.
In the first quarter the industry was up 10% while our unit volume grew over 15% as we continue to gain share.
Sales for the quarter were $1.2 billion.
Excluding currency and BEFIEX net sales increased approximately 11% compared to the previous year primarily driven by the higher volume.
GAAP operating profit totaled $123 million compared to $130 million in the prior year period.
Our ongoing business operating profit for the quarter totaled $109 million compared to $114 million in the prior year period.
Favorable price and mix including price increases and ongoing cost productivity were offset by higher material cost and foreign currency.
Turning to Slide 18 for our expectations of the region.
As previously discussed we expect the second quarter appliance industry can be down due to the World Cup and given the government elections in Brazil and uncertain impact of inflation on consumer sentiment we have kept our industry assumption flat for the year.
We expect to continue outperforming the industry and growing our revenue given our strong market position and current competitive environment.
We recently announced the price increase for the second half to help offset negative currency impacts and significant levels of inflation.
Our innovative new product launches are winning with consumers and we will continue growing beyond our core business.
We remain confident in our Latin America business and in particular expect improved performance in the second half of this year as we expect to realize the recent price increase benefits and the World Cup and tough currency comps will be behind us.
Slide 19 shows how we continue to capitalize on the opportunities for growth in Brazil.
Consumers in Brazil love their soccer and love their beer as well particularly ice cold beer.
The Consul brand is already a leader in refrigeration in the Latin America market so we are excited to introduce a home beer cooler with a professional cooling system.
Our first quarter results in the Asia region are shown on Slide 21.
Net sales during the quarter were $166 million compared to $187 million in the prior year period.
Excluding the impact of currency sales decreased approximately 4%.
Operating profit of $5 million improved by $2 million and operating margins improved 120 basis points compared to the prior year period.
Favorable price and mix including cost based price increases as well as ongoing cost productivity offset lower unit volumes from a lower industry increased raw material cost and foreign currency.
Turning to Slide 22 despite challenging market environment our margin expansion continues as our innovative products drive market share and improved mix and our ongoing productivity actions reduce costs.
Additionally we are on track to become the majority shareholder of Hefei Sanyo to accelerate our growth in the emerging Chinese market.
We were pleased to see that Hefei Sanyo recently reported full year 2013 sales of approximately 860 million in U.S.
dollars and increase of 33% compared to the prior year and operating income of approximately 60 million over 7% of sales.
The transaction remains subject to approval by the China Securities Regulatory Commission certain other regulatory approvals required by the relevant Chinese authorities and other formalities.
We continue to expect the transaction to close anytime between the end of the second quarter and the end of 2014.
Slide 23 shows an example of our product leadership in Asia this quarter where we highlighted the Whirlpool Icemagic refrigerator with best in class ice-making and bottle cooling a Powercool zone to help consumers keep food safe during power outages common in India and innovative storage solutions for our consumers' medicines and spices.
Now I would like to turn it over to Larry.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
We are pleased with our first quarter results and are on pace to deliver a record annual performance which we communicated last quarter as shown on Slide 25.
We expect to deliver annual GAAP EPS in the range of $11.05 to $11.55 per share and annual ongoing business EPS of $12 to $12.50.
Our expectations for free cash flow remain at approximately $700 million.
Overall the underlying fundamentals of our business remains strong as evidenced by our continued sales growth and margin expansion as well as a strong balance sheet.
As I speak to the financial results on slides 26 to 28 you will see how we continue to expand our ongoing business operating margin in the first quarter and expect to deliver another balanced approach towards margin expansion resulting in an 8 plus percent margin for the full year 2014.
Price mix was up 0.5 point and we continue to expect to realize a 0.5 to 1 point of margin driven by our cost base price increases innovative new product launches and growth beyond our core business.
Our cost and capacity reduction initiatives contributed another 0.5 point consistent with our full year guidance.
For the quarter our cost productivity more than offset material cost inflation of $52 million to deliver a positive 0.25 point of margin expansion.
Our ongoing cost productivity for the year is on track to fully offset approximately $150 million to $200 million of material cost inflation and is expected to deliver a positive 0.5 point of margin.
As planned and previously communicated our increased marketing technology and product investments primarily reduced margins by 0.75 points during the quarter and we expect to have a negative 0.5 point to 1 full point of margin impact for the year.
Overall our first quarter margins were on track with expectations and consistent with our expected full year improvement.
In summary for the first quarter ongoing business operating profit increased driven by higher sales positive price mix ongoing cost productivity and the benefit from the cost and capacity reductions more than offsetting higher material cost currency and investments in marketing technology and products.
As we said back in January we expect a stronger second half as productivity ramps up Latin America price increases take effect and World Cup and tough first half currency comparisons are behind us.
Our continued margin improvements combined with positive revenue growth enable us to deliver double-digit improvement in ongoing business earnings per share.
The graph on Slide 29 illustrates expenses associated with our cost and capacity reduction initiative.
The actions we have been taking over the past couple of years and into 2014 represent a generational change to our footprint in cost structure.
As mentioned last quarter we took additional cost and capacity reduction actions to address the soft but recovering European market and to continue to expand our margins.
For the year we continue to expect approximately $100 million of charges and $80 million of ongoing benefits.
As we continue to improve margins and grow revenues our plans to deploy the cash generated from our business are solid as shown on Slide 30.
We will fund the business for growth including capital expenditures between $625 million and $675 million.
Last week our Board approved the 20% increase in the quarterly dividend to $3 per share on an annual basis.
Our Board also approved the new $500 million share repurchase authorization.
Finally as Mike mentioned we are on track with our acquisition of majority stake in China's Hefei Sanyo.
The proceeds from our recent bond offering will be used to pay off $600 million of maturing debt during Q2 and Q3 that was for the acquisition of Hefei Sanyo.
In summary given our profitable growth trends increased investment capacity and strong balance sheet we will balance funding for all aspects of our business to ensure the best long-term value creation for our shareholders.
Now I'll turn it back over to Jeff.
Thanks Larry.
Let me turn to Slide 32 where I'll summarize.
Again we continue to grow our revenue and expand our margins.
With our innovative solutions for consumers we are winning the marketplace and we are well-positioned to capitalize on positive global demand trends.
As Larry and Mike mentioned the Hefei Sanyo acquisition is progressing and provides an opportunity for transformational growth for us in China.
We also continue to make investments and see very good growth in our beyond the core businesses are expand and extend and in total as a result we remain very confident in our ability to deliver a record year of performance in 2014 but equally important is our ability to continue to build upon this revenue growth margin and earnings momentum to deliver medium and long-term shareholder value.
Finally I turn to Slide 33 which is our roadmap for growth and value creation and I would just say we are very confident that we're executing in line with our long-term growth strategy.
We are appropriately investing in our business and enhancing returns to our shareholders.
As I said previously as we achieve our 8% plus operating margin target and close the Hefei Sanyo transaction we will provide updates to our shareholder value creation targets at the appropriate time later in the year.
In the meantime we'll continue to execute this strategy to ensure the best long-term value creation for our shareholders.
So with that I will conclude our formal remarks and we'll open this up to Q&amp;A.
(Operator Instructions) We'll go first to David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
I wonder if we could just talk about Latin America for a moment I'm just trying to understand some of the moving parts here.
You say the volumes were up about 15% against the 10% industry number which is looks like you're holding your share gains down there which is great to see.
Revenue excluding FX up about 11%.
But you say as well in your slide that the price increases are offsetting inflation and currency.
Is it possible that price increases were achieved became the 4% difference between those numbers shy of FX? David let me answer that.
We took a price increase earlier on in the year at the beginning of the year and now we were just executing a second price increase.
So what we're expecting is the combination of all these price increases will offset all of the currency impact.
But we're also looking to offset inflation and inflation in the environment has been high.
And so the price increase will offset both of those.
Your competitor earlier this morning talked about a 15% revenue growth in Latin America and said it was attributable almost entirely to price mix not volume.
Can you help us understand the discrepancy? David this is Larry.
I think again what you're seeing is a little bit similar to what we saw in the quarter last year is you got to remember on the unit side that we just have appliance units in there we have a compressor and an appliance business.
So what you're essentially seeing is the fact if we were to combine both units from compressors and appliances and then calculate the ASVs on there you would see the combined businesses being very positive.
So it's just the abnormality we have as we're just reporting appliance units and not compressor units.
David this is Jeff.
I just want to add one last point.
I think you know there are three pieces of our Latin America business Brazil appliance the appliance market outside 32 markets outside of Brazil and our global compressor business and of that it was under different conditions and Brazil appliance business is going very strong very well a large nation with countries like Argentina and Venezuela et cetera has been very unpredictable and the global compressor business particularly because of China has been I would say weak in the first quarter but we're starting to see recovery as we go forward.
So it's a number of these things but the biggest part Brazil we had a very good quarter.
Thank you for that detail.
Could I just ask you to elaborate a little further on your observation as April has been good in the United States? David it's Marc Bitzer and let me expand the April comment more into the first quarter or so not forward but backwards.
As you well know January and February was impacted very strongly by weather and quite still a lot of trade inventory moves.
We've seen in March a very strong demand by way of both sell-in and sell-out and we pretty much see almost the same level of strong momentum in marketplace throughout April both sell-in and sell-out which gives us a lot of confidence.
And can you speak to the builder business as part of that or is it retail I mean just could you distinguish between those two elements? No I mean David first of all it's both but be also clear we saw – if you go back further in time Q3 Q4 we saw exceptional strong momentum in builder business that by definition came down a little bit in January and February because of the momentum and you just could not complete certain houses and never – you know our appliances come in pretty much last so you saw a little bit of dip on this one but our builder business also in Q1 and the builder market from what we see has been up in solid single digits to high single digits.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
We'll take our next question from Michael Rehaut JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
First question I had was on North American margins a little bit up year-over-year but down sequentially and I think in the past couple of years I guess from a seasonality standpoint sometimes it's up sequentially 4Q to 1Q sometimes it's down so I was wondering if you could highlight if there were any drivers on a sequential basis that took you down from the 11% that you did in the back half of '13 and also in 4Q itself down to a little under 10% if those are kind of temporary if you would expect to kind of get back to that 11% run rate that you did in the second half of last year? Michael it's Marc Bitzer.
First of all to make a long story short we see the same strength for our margin in Q1 as we saw in Q4.
Typically what you expect between Q4 and Q1 is a slight dip in margins that comes largely from the seasonality of certain product types.
It's less when you would for example see in Europe or other markets but there is a small dip what you historically see.
The other thing which I want to highlight or point towards also and I made reference about it in the script our margins in Q1 year-over-year the gross margin is up 60 basis points and you see that also that is offset largely by the brand investments.
Most brand investments are also up sequentially even versus Q4 because we simply ramped up this massive Maytag campaign.
So long story short I mean our margin momentum I would say continues that strength.
And I would just add and again we're not going to dwell.
The only surprise we saw at all in the first quarter what we talked about in January and February.
We went from an industry which was running high single digit to low double digit in the last six months of last year to January February combined was like negative 5 and as soon as we got out of the challenging weather conditions in half the country we went right back to the run rate industry demand before.
So that was really the only difference.
Our decision to invest more in new products and brand investment is very consistent with our strategy.
We didn't stop any of those because of Jan-Feb shortfalls in volume because these were more long-lasting and these will fuel further revenue growth for us.
Michael it's Larry.
Just keep in mind when you look at volumes in North America Q4 to Q1 volumes are 20% to 25% lower in Q1.
So you're just not getting the same leverage.
Okay I appreciate that.
Thanks for that help.
And also on Latin America just trying to get arms around the timing of the price increase if that's something that you expect to go into effect in 2Q or is that more of a second half event and as the flowing through of inflation and currency continues to impact that business certainly on a year-over-year it was a solid still solid result but in terms of 2Q itself given the timing of the price increase et cetera some of the cost would you expect margins to dip a little bit in that quarter and then rebound in the back half of the year just trying to get a sense of the timing? Michael it's Mike.
The price increase has already been announced and it will go into effect throughout the second quarter.
So we'll likely see the real benefits of that price increase in the second half of the year.
In terms of and we stated our experience has been this World Cup means that we're going to have lower demand in the second quarter and so as you pointed out yes we do expect margins to be slightly lower but we expect a very strong second half as we both recover on the volume slide as well as the full impact of the price increases.
Great appreciate it thanks.
We'll take our next question from Denise Chai with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
So just want to follow-up on your North America SG&amp;A you mentioned the Maytag campaign so will we see that kind of spend continuing in the coming quarters or was that really a drag on SG&amp;A in the first quarter because it's a small quarter and also it was weather impacted? Denise it's Marc Bitzer.
First of all also let me elaborate on SG&amp;A and that is consistent with what we said earlier.
If you look – if you will break down our SG&amp;A into two components one call it infrastructure which is basically the [indiscernible] fixed cost [indiscernible] revenue generation which is [indiscernible] by investments we held in North America our infrastructure expense as flat for the last two or three years and we will not change that going forward.
So we will have a strong – we had a strong focus on maintaining that fixed cost for that.
So the thing which we basically did is we dialled up our brand investments and [indiscernible] Maytag launch we also have significant amount of product launches in Q2 and Q3 of a magnitude which we probably haven't seen in a long time and that will be supportive by rev gen.
Now having said that let me get back to Larry's point we have these brand investments of course on a low volume base you lose just some of the leverage and that's by definition but I mean with the revenues growing Q2 and Q3 that will probably somewhat change [indiscernible].
Yes Denise.
So what you expect is – no this wasn't a one quarter this was kind of the rate we're spending.
We had a very low demand quarter.
As a percent of sales it will likely decrease with the same dollar spend.
Okay got it.
And then were there any kind of direct one-off costs from weather disruptions given the factory closures and the fact that you couldn't even ship out of that ladder for over a week were those material? Denise again it's Marc.
First of all that may be specific to [indiscernible].
We were not only impacted by consumers but keep in mind we have a majority of factors up north.
So we have a lot of production in Ohio.
Yes indeed it was very hard to get trucks out of Ohio which had a temporary impact on our logistic cost and [indiscernible] supply chain will always cost you something.
It's not a huge [indiscernible] but it involves a one-time impact probably around $10 million to $20 million.
Okay thank you.
Just one last one you gave us the North America gross margin.
Can you give us some sense of the other regions please? What was your question? Gross margins in other regions besides North America? I mean I think what you saw across the regions as Marc just mentioned international margin is also up.
So what you're seeing is the benefit from the price mix improvement in the international businesses that have been able to offset a lot of the material cost inflation and FX that we have.
So I would say globally very consistent to what Marc talked about in the North America picture.
We'll take our next question from Ken Zener with KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
So no good deed goes unpunished.
You beat AHAM but [took out] (ph) margins.
So I just want us to walk through what I think you already said.
Marc you just said $10 million to $20 million hit from weather is that correct? Yes that's what we said.
Would that be considered – hopefully one time but that would be a sequential benefit right to whatever the run rate is? That would be correct.
Now the $10 million to $20 million hit that you just described does that represent more of a margin drag if you will or the cause for lack of margin expansion is that greater than the SG&amp;A investments that you just described given your 60 basis point improvement in gross margin just trying to get a sense of magnitude here? Ken it's Marc Bitzer.
Obviously you can do the math.
If SG&amp;A went up 0.5 points on the revenue base you can do the math.
So by definition it's even the ballpark is much likely less and [indiscernible] logistics cost is slightly less.
I mean logistics cost technically flows into our gross margins.
So that is not showing up in the fixed cost that is in the variable cost.
Ken this is Jeff.
If you start back take a global look and go down the key drivers of our business volume was a little bit weaker than we expected largely due to the U.S.
that we talked about.
We know we've seen that [indiscernible].
So that's – we don't see any other big changes around the world.
Price mix we were up I think 0.5 point we've guided for the year to 0.5 point to 1 point and with some of the cost based price increases that are kicking in we still feel very good about that.
Next one productivity.
As always our productivity ramps up throughout the year.
That will be especially true this year where we had a weak demand in the first quarter or so that's a negative productivity so a return to normal demand plus our normal ramp up during the year productivity will be a big lever.
Restructuring benefits those will flow and we got them in the first quarter and those will flow throughout the year.
The offset is increased brand and product investment but in total the walk if you will from last year to this year we remain confident in delivering our 8 plus percent margin for the whole year.
So by definition yes our run rate will increase.
Thank you.
If we look at the – well let me ask about your cash flow because I think we're getting to the point now that investors are getting more focused on that as you are with the pending Hefei acquisition as well as the announced share buyback now you guys did some buybacks last year but it was mostly for share options if you will could you comment on how much of that $500 million is dedicated to net share repurchases A and then B given that you talked about Hefei on the call here and you did mention China in relation to your compression being kind of weak could you just start giving us a context so investors have some context when you guys do acquire the company for what is happening in China and we can start getting used to your language for that region? Thank you.
Ken this is Jeff.
I go back to use of cash investing in the business which we're doing at an interest rate paying down debt [indiscernible] et cetera were very predictable on drag return to shareholder as we did last year we both increased the dividend and have an authorization for $500 million and we have the very important M&amp;A in Hefei Sanyo.
So we're very much executing to what we've been communicating is our plan.
Last year we purchased $350 million which was by the way our authorization.
We don't have any defined time period for the current authorization.
We typically fund out of free cash flow generation.
Your question on dilution at today's stock price would probably run around 1 million shares a year dilution.
So I mean clearly that's if done today it would be a net reduction but again that we've done over some period of time and we really can't give you as we said in the very beginning I guess last July that as soon as we close because this is a publicly traded company in China we cannot disclose non-public information of Hefei Sanyo.
So we will not be able to give you all the details of the impact it has on us.
I mean you do have the end of the year data point which is clear and shortly after we close or whatever is appropriate we'll go through in great detail both the impact on earnings standpoint on an ongoing basis our expectations of growth in earnings and cash.
Right I understand that.
I guess just trying to keep the commentary constrained to your current business you did highlight compressor when you're talking about Latin America different business and you did highlight compressor had some weakness in China related to China that's the… Yes Ken the Chinese market and depends on which product category but first quarter was weak.
There's different data but it was double-digit declines.
We don't think that's a forever thing there it's going through there has been some slowdowns in China.
We were comping over a really big previous year of growth.
It looks like it's starting to level out.
So yes China was – which affected both our compressor business and our appliance business and Hefei Sanyo has not reported their first quarter yet so there's nothing we can really say about that.
I understand.
I was just [indiscernible].
And then if you would – I'll follow-up with you guys offline.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Sam Darkatsh with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Two more broad questions if I might.
First about Europe a few years ago Jeff you mentioned that I think you needed about 6% operating margin in order to earn your cost of capital.
That was prior to I believe all your restructuring efforts.
What margin do you now need to earn your cost of capital in Europe and can you achieve that without further material restructuring and/or industry consolidation at this point? Yes Sam that's correct.
I think I said 5.5% to 6% given our asset base and so on is where we needed to be.
We absolutely believe we can get there and now are starting to show the path to get there and it's a combination of what I call self-help what we're doing from a fixed cost reduction in that which is support by the restructuring that we're doing and by the way getting the benefits for our ongoing productivity our investment product innovation and I think you're starting to see the accelerated growth that we're getting and absolutely a stable or modestly growing market will certainly accelerate that.
So we are on track for that.
I think we're going to make a very large step forward this year quarter by quarter and every asset that we have has to be able to earn us return and Europe is no different.
So to paraphrase then the 6% or so 5.5% or 6% is still the necessary bogie and you don't need anything dramatic to happen incremental to prior – to previously announced actions then? Well what I've said is that we will take the appropriate cost and capacity and investment decisions needed to do that and we have we've announced a number of them.
On the go – I can't tell you go forward what we need to do but I will say go forward we will get to 5.55 to 6% or hopefully better.
Got you.
Second question your U.S.
market share at least domestic market share was quite good this quarter.
You did have an easy comparison on a year-on-year basis.
At least directionally I won't hold you to specificity but directionally how should we think about your U.S.
market share over the next few quarters? Knowing the comps get harder and you're not going to be matching a whole lot of promotional activity but you do have some new products coming and you have a builder mix that's favorable.
So how should we directionally think about your market share trends over the next few quarters in the U.S.? Sam it's Marc.
First of all pleased to hear the compliment on Q1 markets.
I wouldn't call last year's baseline easy in any case and as you know we really don't give quarterly guidance on market share.
Having said that our market share is both sequentially and year-over-year up that is correct.
It was not done through promotions or by [indiscernible] activities what you've seen in gross margin.
This basically tells you the product launches this innovation without overly aggressiveness on promotion we get to steady good run rate in market share and we're comfortable with current levels.
Last question just real quick.
The BEFIEX I think if my math holds you will not be recognizing anymore BEFIEX credits this year and are we done or what's the status on that program? Based on what we know today we did monetize 14 million in the first quarter and right now we would not anticipate anything if it stays for the rest of the year.
What's left to be – what's still unrecognized? There's $53 million left there tied into legal or large that will be settled over the next few years.
Very good.
Thank you all.
We'll take our final question from Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
On the U.S.
market share showed us for some further detail it seems like the Maytag and the bigger than normal year of the product launches are still in front of you.
So talk a little bit about what allowed the share progress in the first quarter and if I'm correct there is incremental new product coming to market that should sustain or perhaps expand the market share benefit in 2Q and beyond? Eric it's Marc Bitzer again.
I mean what we saw in Q1 in particular are still carryovers of largest product launches [indiscernible] particularly top loader line just called [fusion] (ph) and where we're going to help the market share gains.
Our cooking products are running extremely well.
It's exceptionally strong category and we said it's also carrying over in Q1.
And on top of that you had just the Q1 industry just from the overall industry and that's impacted by Q4 promotions and as we said last year we are not participating that much in aggressive promotions.
So you see we expect all of this met [indiscernible] for Q1 lift.
But at the same time you're correct.
There is a significant amount of product launches ahead of us in Q2 and Q3 that were based on initial trade partner reactions very confident about.
A follow-on on that if you could give a little bit of color of Maytag which has been around for a while but it seems like you're more excited about the new product efforts and attraction and the response from the trade can you just frame a little bit of strategically what you're doing with Maytag in terms of channel or price point or position and then also the magnitude of the uptake you're seeing from the channel on these new products? Eric it's Marc again.
I think to really get into detail it's probably more subject to a [one point] (ph) investor conference to really show you the entire Maytag value creation strategy.
But to basically make it short I mean the Maytag as a brand still stands for exceptional quality and reliability.
I think it's fair to say that the last decade probably and before the Maytag brand [indiscernible] all the product deserves but this is what we're changing okay.
We have a complete new product line which I think fully represent what the Maytag brand and consumer mind stands for and that is accompanied by a very big brand we launched with both TV and ad.
To be also clear we started the TV and ad campaign the products themselves will be launched end of May or early June.
So you don't yet see that in the market.
But of course we already introduced it to the trade and there is a lot of additional flooring which we will get from this.
Okay well if there's no more question I would just like to thank everyone for joining us today and we look forward to speaking with you next time.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's program.
You may disconnect at this time.
Thank you and have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to Whirlpool Corporation’s Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introduction I would like to turn the call over to Senior Director of Investor Relations Chris Conley.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Whirlpool Corporation’s second quarter 2014 conference call.
Joining me today are Jeff Fettig our Chairman and CEO; Presidents Mike Todman and Marc Bitzer; as well as Larry Venturelli our Chief Financial Officer.
Our remarks today track with the presentation available on the Investors section of our website at whirlpoolcorp.com.
Before we begin let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements to assist you in understanding Whirlpool Corporation’s future expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially from these statements due to many factors discussed in our latest 10-K and other periodic reports as well as on Slide 2 and in the appendix of this presentation.
Turning to Slide 3 we want to remind you that today’s presentation includes non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures are important indicators of our operations as they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to results from our ongoing business operations.
We also think that the adjusted measures will provide you with a better baseline for analyzing trends in our ongoing business operations.
Listeners are directed to the appendix section of our presentation beginning on Slide 39 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP items to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
With that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Well good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
As you saw in our earnings release from earlier today overall our results were largely in line with our expectations.
As we’ve managed through a challenging short-term global demand environment.
Our second quarter ongoing business earnings per share were up 11% versus last year and these results were primarily driven by record profits in our North America business.
Overall the underlying fundamentals of our business remain strong.
we received global demand trends improving and we expect second half earnings to ramp up due to a variety of reasons.
If you turn to our financials on Slide 6 excluding the impact of foreign currencies our revenues were up about 1% versus last year.
Our ongoing business earnings per diluted share increased by 25% or up approximately 11% to $2.62 compared to $2.33 last year.
Turning to Slide 7 and factoring in the first half actual performance for industry demand we have revised our regional industry demand assumptions.
Globally we expect second half industry demand levels to improve versus first half.
For North America and specifically the U.S.
we have revised our industry demand assumption to be up about approximately 5% per year.
We did have a slow start for the year in January and February but March – since March we’ve had very strong growth over 6%.
So this adjustment really just reflects the slow start which we saw in January and February.
In Europe we see about the same.
we continue to expect flat to up 2% industry for the full year as a region continues its recovery.
For Latin America we are revising our industry assumption to flat to minus 3% for the full year.
Again primarily due to the short-term impact that we expected and saw from this year’s World Cup and some uncertainties around government elections in Brazil.
And finally our Asia industry forecast is flat for the full year with China being down for the year and India being up.
Again overall we remain very confident in the underlining fundamentals of our business and have multiple opportunities to achieve profitable growth.
Today our business performance has put us in a very strong position as a company.
This has allowed us to enhance our returns to shareholders as we announced in April dividend increase and $500 million share repurchase authorization.
We have significantly increased our brand and product investments and we will see acceleration in new product introductions in the second half of the year.
But at the same time we are significantly improving our global operating platform.
And this has demonstrated by our recently announced agreements to purchase majority stakes in Indesit Europe and Hefei Sanyo in China.
This will allows us to significantly increase the scale and size of our operations in both of these important markets in the world.
So on total we are very well positioned we are on track for a record year of operating performance.
And we are setting up a platform for future growth and very strong value creation.
So at this point in time we will get into regional details and I’d liked to turn it over to Marc Bitzer.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on slide 9 by reviewing North America’s record performance in the second quarter.
Starting with the top line net sales of $2.7 billion for North America were up 3% compared to the prior year period and up 4% excluding currency.
So operating margins expand by 60 base points in the quarter due to unit volume growth in US major appliances and the benefit of ongoing cost productivity along this cost and capacity reductions.
More of an offsetting unfavorable currency and higher material cost we also increased our investments for our brand marketing and support of new product launches that drives continued growth.
Our ongoing business operating margins were 10.6% for the quarter the record second quarter ongoing business operating profit $285 million compared to $262 million in the second quarters of 2013.
The consistent and disciplined execution of our actions resulted in the fifth quarter of year-over-year revenue growth and the 11th consecutive quarter of year-over-year margin improvement.
Now let me take a moment to talk about our expectations for 2014 as shown on slide 10 overall we were pleased with our record operating profit in the first half.
US appliance demand has rebounded from a slow winter start as March through June T7 industries up 6.6% compared to the prior year.
However we are adjusting our full year industry forecast to approximately 5% which is the lower end of our previous guidance range as we don’t expect benefit to fully make up from a slow start with 7% growth level.
Macro economic indicators point to a strong second half as we are seeing the lowest unemployment rates in September 2008.
New housing starts and existing home sales are improving and live in ranges of our expectations for the year.
And finally we believe strong replacement demand will continue as consumers replace older appliances for our innovative energy efficient product.
In addition we expect positive net cost productivity from our ongoing programs to accelerate in the back half of the year.
And in the second half of the year we are excited to launch many innovative new products in almost every four business product category.
We are also driving growth beyond our core business as shown by our recent announcement that Procter &amp; Gamble to introduce a revolutionary at-home clothing care system called Swash.
And our expansive fleet of launches within the KitchenAid small appliance business.
Turning to slide 11 you can see an example of our new Maytag dishwasher that is part of our new Maytag brand design that follows our successful Maytag Man brand campaign.
Maytag dishwashers are our quietest dishwasher ever with strengths to handle tough loads.
It also features in the industry exclusive stainless steel silverware basket and a tiered upper rack to hold large plate and taller items.
I will now talk to the second quarter results for our Europe Middle East and Africa region as shown on slide 13.
Sales were $746 million compared to $731 million in the prior year excluding currency sales decreased approximately 3% year-over-year.
The cost and capacity-reduction initiatives which will put in place combined with ongoing productivity programs and improved product mix have delivered another quarter of positive operating profit.
Operating profit of $2 million improved by $8 million compared to the prior year period and operating margins improved 110 basis points.
Now turning to slide 14 our market environment in the Eurozone remains somewhat soft and expect – and we are seeing some recovery and expect normal seasonality as we progress throughout the year.
We expect positive operating profit and margin expansion driven by continued benefits from our ongoing cost productivity programs and our previously announced restructuring initiatives.
And we continue to focus on our innovative new product launches and growth beyond our core specifically with the growth we’ve seen in the KitchenAid small appliances categories within Europe Middle East and Africa.
Turning to Slide 15 as Jeff mentioned we were extremely pleased to sign the binding agreements to become majority shareholder of Indesit.
We are trying a 66.8% voting stake in Indesit from Merloni family for €11 per share.
To date we have acquired 4.9% of voting shares of Indesit.
Value of this transaction is €758 million or approximately $1 billion.
In addition to the share price Whirlpool would assume indebtedness of Indesit front loading and we intend to pay for this acquisition with cash on hand together with private domestic and international public debt financing.
And we expect judicial and the regulatory approvals by the end of 2014.
Once the transaction is closed we will launch a mandatory tender offer in accordance with Italian law to acquire additional shares.
Slide 16 highlights our opportunity to create significantly more efficient and value creating appliance business in Europe.
With a tremendous strategic fit for complementary country positions products brands and distribution and with efficiencies in R&amp;D capital spending and value chain costs as well as operational scale which increased volume and more effectively integrating our product platforms.
Now given our proven track record of generating value with our acquisitions with high confidence and our ability to execute this transaction successfully and we expect to more than double our presence in the world’s largest appliance market and create value for our shareholders.
Once we complete the integration for the reason that I previously described we expect our combined European business to EBIT margin of 7% to 8% and free cash flow generation of 6% to 7% which will make Europe a significant contributor to the overall financial results of Whirlpool Corporation.
And we expect it will take about three years to fully achieve its benefit.
Following the closing of a transaction we will provide investors with our detailed plans on how we intend to create this profitable growth and shareholder value with recent important acquisition in Europe.
And now I would like to turn it over to Mike.
Thanks Marc.
If you turn to slide 19 you will see our Latin America results.
As expected our second quarter results were primarily impacted by lower demand as consumers focused on ground goods purchases during the World Cup.
Sales for the quarter were $1.1 billion despite industry volumes being down approximately 17% our net sales excluding currency and BEFIEX decreased approximately 4% compared to the previous year.
We continue to gain share both year-over-year and sequentially as we benefited from our compelling brands and the beginning of new product introductions.
We also benefited from previously announced price increases for which the benefits will accelerate and increase in the second half of this year.
Our ongoing business operating profit for the quarter totaled $87 million compared to $111 million in the prior year period.
Improved product price and mix was more than offset by lower unit volumes higher material cost and foreign currency.
GAAP operating profit totaled $87 million compared to $135 million in the prior year period which included $24 million of BEFIEX tax credits.
Turning to slide 20 for our expectations of the region and given the continuation of the World Cup in July and the government elections in Brazil we are now lowering our industry assumption to flat to down 3% for the year.
However we continue to believe that the macroeconomic indicators in Brazil point a long-term healthy demand growth as unemployment is at historically low levels below 5%.
Real wages are growing inflation is within the target range and debt as a percent of income is primarily driven by increased investments in housing.
All of these signs are positive for appliance industry growth.
We also expect to continue outperforming the industry and growing our revenue given our strong market position and current competitive environment.
Our recently announced price increases will impact the second half by helping to offset negative currency impacts and significant levels of inflation experienced throughout the year.
And we are launching over 100 new models in the second half across all product lines and with exciting innovation.
In summary we do expect the strong second half performance in our Latin America business due to the already discussed price increase benefits the launch of exciting new products and the tough currency comparisons being behind us.
Our second quarter results in the Asia region are shown on slide 23.
Overall market demand will soft but improved versus the first quarter as the Chinese economy continues to grow at a more moderate pace.
In addition to the overall slow down in China our business was down significantly.
Our trade customers began reducing their Whirlpool inventory in anticipation of the integration with Hefei Sanyo and the expected delivery of new product lines.
This resulted in a sales decline of over 80% for the second quarter compared to prior year period and therefore had a significant impact on margins and production.
We expect that after the transaction closes we will return to far more positive revenue growth as we launched our new integrated product lines.
The short-term trade actions are having a significant impact on our current business due to reduced shipments and production volumes as indicated in our adjusted guidance.
Post-approval we are confident this acquisition will put us in a very strong position as we entered 2015.
Net sales during the quarter were $211 million compared to $246 million in the prior year period.
Excluding the impact of currency sales decreased approximately 9%.
GAAP operating profit of $4 million compared to $14 million in the prior year and operating margins declined 370 basis points compared to the prior year period.
The benefits of cost based price increases in ongoing cost productivity were more than offset by the trade adjustments of volume in China higher material costs and foreign currency.
Turning to slide 24 we continue to execute ongoing productivity actions and cost based price increases across the region to offset inflation and currency and to execute new product launches.
We are also on track to become the majority shareholder of Hefei Sanyo to accelerate our growth in the emerging Chinese market.
As shown on slide 25 and as previously announced we are in the process of acquiring a 51% stake in Hefei Sanyo for approximately $547 million.
Hefei Sanyo’s expanded distribution competitive products and complementary manufacturing combined with a proven management team and significant capacity to enable growth will provide us with an outstanding platform for growth in China.
As you can see on slide 26 the approval process in line with our expectations and we have received the majority of the required approvals for this transaction over the past 12 months.
The transaction remains subject to the Chinese securities regulatory commission approvals tax clearances and payment approvals as well as share registration at closing.
We continue to expect the transaction to close by the end of this year or possibly by the end of the third year.
Investment integration and transition cost which began in the second quarter will have a negative impact to earnings and cash during 2014.
However once combined we expect this transaction will be meaningfully accretive in 2015 which would be the first year post-integration.
Now I’d like to turn it over to Larry.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Our second quarter results were in line with our expectations and we are on pace to deliver another record year of ongoing business operating performance as shown on slide 29.
We are adjusting our full-year guidance to reflect the impact of investment and integration cost related to the pending acquisitions of both Hefei Sanyo and Indesit.
As Mike mentioned our trade customers in China are reducing their inventories and anticipation of our integration with Hefei Sanyo which is impacting both our GAAP and ongoing EPS guidance by approximately $0.50 per share.
And the pending acquisition of Indesit in Europe is impacting our GAAP EPS guidance by $0.25 per share as we incur additional investment expenses in 2014.
Our guidance for annual GAAP diluted EPS is now in the range of $10.30 to $10.80 per share and annual ongoing business diluted EPS is now $11.50 to $12 per share which represents a 15% to 20% improvement versus a year ago.
Our expectations for 2014 free cash flow of $600 million to $650 million now reflect the impact of these two adjustments.
Overall the underlying fundamentals of our business remain very strong as we continue to invest in our business and bring innovative products to our consumers across the globe.
As I speak to the financial results on slides 30 to 32 you will see how we continued to expand our ongoing business operating margin in the first half and expect to deliver another balanced approach towards margin expansion resulting in an 8% plus margin for the full year.
For the first half price mix was up 0.5 point and we continue to expect to realize 0.5 to 1 point of margin driven by our cost based pricing increases For the first half our cost productivity more than offset material cost inflation of $100 million to deliver a positive quarter point of margin expansion.
Our ongoing cost productivity for the year is on track to more than offset approximately $150 million to $200 million of year-over-year material cost inflation and expected to deliver a positive 0.5 point of margin through 2014.
As planned and previously communicated our increased marketing technology and product investments primarily reduced margins by a 1 point during the first half.
And we expect them to have a negative 0.5 to 1 point of margin impact for the year.
Overall our fist half margins were firmly on track with expectations and consistent with our expected full year improvement.
For the second quarter ongoing business operating profit benefited from improved product price and mix ongoing cost productivity and the benefits from cost and capacity reductions lower volumes largely attributable for the short-term impact from the World Cup in Brazil higher material cost unfavorable currency and investments in marketing technology and products negatively impacted results.
We continue to expect a stronger second half as we introduced a significant number of new products productivity ramps up Latin America price increases fully take effect and tougher first half currency comparisons are behind us.
We believe our expected margin improvements combined with positive revenue growth will enable us to deliver strong double-digit improvement in ongoing business earnings per share during the second half.
Graph on Slide 33 illustrates expenses associated with our cost and capacity-reduction initiatives.
The actions we have been taking over the past couple of years and into 2014 represented generational change to our footprint in cost structure.
The additional cost and capacity-reduction actions we took early in year which we addressed this out by recovering European market and continued to expand our margins.
For the first half we incurred approximately $63 million of charges and for the full year we expect approximately $100 million of charges and $80 million of ongoing benefits.
As we continue to improve margins and grow revenues our plans to deploy the cash generated from our business are solid as shown on Slide 34.
We are funding the business for growth and significant product introductions in the second half including capital expenditures between $625 million and $675 million for the year.
We’ve recently increased our quarterly dividend on the company’s common stock and authorizing the share repurchase program.
Finally as previously mentioned we are on track with our acquisition majority stake in China’s Hefei Sanyo and have recently announced our intention to purchase the majority stake in Italy’s Indesit.
In summary given our profitable growth trends increased investment capacity and strong balance sheet we will balance funding for all aspects of our business to ensure the best long-term value creation for our shareholders.
Now I’ll turn it back over to Jeff.
Thanks Larry.
I’ll summarize our expectations for this year on Slide 36.
As we mentioned we are expecting to significantly ramp up our second half earnings based on what we’re seeing our improvement in global demand trends our continued investments in our brands and new products will support a very strong lineup of new innovative product introductions during the second half.
We are achieving higher prize mix which should continue an accelerated rate in the second half and finally the normal higher seasonality of productivity we fully expect to happen.
Additionally as I mentioned in the previous remarks the Hefei Sanyo acquisition provides us a true transformation on growth opportunity in China.
We will more than buyback to our size in this very important emerging market.
And the Indesit acquisition in Europe provides a various significant opportunity to position our European business for competitiveness leading the growth and ongoing value creation; both of these transactions are on track to close by the end of the year.
We remain confident in our ability to deliver another record year of operating performance in 2014.
Further out I would like to turn to slide 37 which really highlights how we’re creating multiple paths to profitable growth.
First I would remind that our North America region we believe we are still in the early stages of the replacement cycle as well as a multi-year housing rebound and as we mentioned in the last call we’re beginning to see improvements in discretionary demand.
So we see several years ahead of us with good industry demand growth.
Secondly our pending acquisition of Indesit in Europe is a very important part of a comprehensive strategy and provides us to improve our competitive position in Europe and very importantly create a consistent and meaningful source of value creation for our shareholders.
And again Hefei in China establishes a broad platform for growth in China’s emerging market which still has world levels of appliance penetration as we will 10x our distribution throughout that country.
We also have very good opportunities to increase appliance penetration and continue to gain market share throughout the Latin American regions given our strong brands our proven gains of innovation and overall cost leadership.
In addition as we continue to expand globally we have opportunities to fully leverage our fixed cost structure and ongoing cost productivity programs to ensure our competitive position and continuing to improve our margins.
We have a strong cadence of bringing innovative products to consumers and leveraging the best brands in the appliance industry around the world.
We are driving both revenue and margin world by also extending and expanding beyond our core appliance business where such products that you’ll see on KitchenAid small appliances line which will now sell in the many many markets around the world and also our water business where we’re growing in all parts of the world.
So in total we believe these multiple paths to profitable growth provide us with great opportunity to achieve our value creating objectives and we will ensure that we continue to deliver strong value creation for our shareholders.
So with that I’d like to end our formal remarks and open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll take our first question from Michael Rehaut JPMorgan.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Thanks.
good morning everyone.
Hi Mike.
First question I had was actually and obviously a lot of activity in China and Europe but I wanted to focus on your biggest region the North American market and specifically just get a little bit of incremental color if possible on the trends during the quarter as you mentioned volumes improved in the second quarter and maybe perhaps not enough to maintain the overall shipment guidance.
But if you could go into a little bit more detail in terms of the competitive market if you view from a competitive standpoint if incentives or discounts in the industry are stable how you’re seeing some of the different end market drivers new construction versus repair a model any kind of interesting trends from both the end market perspective and the pricing and discounting perspective.
Hey Michael it’s Marc Bitzer.
Thanks for the questions it’s obviously 10 questions embedded in one question.
So let me try to give you – split it up in both industry and then our own performance in this quarter.
First of all on the industry if you just look at the second quarter the U.S.
the market actually has grown 5.8% in T7 which basically the exact in the range of what we earlier indicated 5% to 7% and the reason why that’s exact from the range is because the underlying macroeconomic indicated are exactly what we have them i.e.
if you look at housing starts we continue to see above $1 million it is slightly above $5 million and unemployment rates are favorable or getting better.
So I would say from a fundamental growth drivers from a market nothing has changed the only difference on a full year perspective is just kind of the last six or eight weeks that we have in Q1 I don’t think the markets are strong enough to just mathematically make it up for rest of the year.
But the underlying run rate of the industry we still see in the original 5% to 7% range and that’s an important factor and everything which we see today on current trends are exactly confirming that direction.
You ask about the overall promotional environment I would say same comments as I made the last earnings call by and large unchanged there’s always promotions in the market we don’t participate.
So we don’t see a radical change in the second quarter based on promotional activities.
If you now come a little bit more to our own performance in the second quarter in the units and I also saw in the earlier analyst reports I think there may be some confusion out there.
Yes it is true that for Whirlpool North America we published 0.6% volume decline.
However it is very important that we made that point earlier which typical people compared to.
In these units it’s the additional major domestic which we call T12 it also includes Mexico it also includes Canada and it also includes more domestic appliances.
If you would just go down to the T7 which we don’t think we don’t typically publish but we have roughly a mid single-digit unit growth which would indicate that we’re pretty much held our market share by and large.
And that is despite and that is an important despite us having availability issue on our laundry products which is our biggest category.
But it is also important to note these availability issues are behind us they were Q2 events and they are behind us and we are fully back on track.
That’s a great answer.
I appreciate all the detail just as quick second question for Larry if I could the guidance coming down about $0.50 on an operating basis fully attributable to the China trade inventory issues but additionally your industry outlook for several regions was notched down a little bit.
So I was wondering if there was anything in the overall view that’s kind of offsetting a look for a little bit of reduced volume if that’s from the margin side or corporate expense or any of the other line items?  Yes Michael we mostly took down our industry guidance assumptions in North America Latin America and you’ve seen the Asia adjustment reflected in our guidance I think the thing to point out is that if you look at countries like Latin America where we are gaining share and we are benefiting from price increases that is largely enabled us to offset the industry guidance change.
Michael this is Jeff I would add to give the industry assumptions for demand are marginal.
And they really reflect what’s already happened in the first six months.
So on a go forward basis we feel actually pretty good about run rates for demand and on top of what we can do in the second half.
So we see a actually improving demand revenue growth environment for the second half.
I just add Michael if you look at the half point sales run rate we mentioned a few things Marc mentioned January Feb weather had a lot of currency in the first half World Cup availability China customer inventory reductions if we strip that all away our half one run rate is in the mid single-digit.
And that certainly supports what we would expect in the second half of the year.
Okay next question.
We will take our next question from Denise Chai with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Great okay thank you for taking my question.
So just in terms of the laundry supply issues that you had in North America can you kind of quantify how big that was? Hey Denise its Marc we are not going to go into the specifics of quantifying it.
However it has been material I mean laundry is overall biggest category and majors and we basically in preparation for a major product launch which we have in Q3 we had to some what limit the production capacity as we go through this massive shift on the assembly line and the tools.
So for temporary that was a about six week issue but six weeks of laundry (indiscernible) availability have material impacts I would just directly say its clearly above $10 million clearly.
Okay got it.
And then in – term can you talk a little bit more about the pricing increase that you are putting through this quarter and what you are seeing for orders after the World Cup? Yes Denise it’s Mike Todman.
We had already talked about in our first quarter earnings call that we had executed that price increase.
And what we said is that it would step up over the course of the rest of the year.
And so what we are expecting is to see significant step up in the third quarter and as we go into the second half for that price increase.
And to date July was still relatively soft is because of the World Cup; but what we are seeing is a pick-up in orders and inline with what our expectations.
Okay great thanks.
Excuse me and just lastly in terms of the Indesit acquisition can we get some kind of little bit more detail in terms of your high level thoughts there you mentioned seeing you mentioned that a 7% to 8% operating margin might be possible in three years what needs to happen what do we need to see for that to happen.
And what would be the casings of that kind of improvement presented from qualitative; you can into a little bit there.
And also you are expecting $80 million of ongoing benefits in 2014 from restructuring so far we haven’t seen a whole lot.
So is that still $80 million for the full-year of 2014?  Denise this is Jeff let me answer the last question first.
Yes we actually are seeing some of them Denise in terms of the improvement of Europe but they do accelerate in the second half and we will deliver at least $80 million worth of benefits on a full-year basis.
As it relates to Indesit in Europe and first of all if you just take your public data that’s combined companies are over $7 billion odd company.
So we certainly gives us a competitive scale to accomplish a lot of things not similar to some of our past large scale acquisitions in terms of benefits.
In terms of the timing I would start with and again just based on public data and certainly our business in improving.
They indicated through their guidance that their business is improving.
So there is a baseline that we believe we can build off of and without getting into all the details it would be really optimizing the opportunities we see of a much larger scale business across the value chain.
So and again in terms of timing it’s premature for us to talk about that but Marc comments of 7% to 8% EBIT company is clearly within our expectations and it does take sometime to ramp up.
You ought to think of a ramp up as opposed to waiting three years because we certainly wouldn’t plan to wait for three years.
Okay and let me just slip one more in here.
There was a pretty meaningful increase in inventory could you talk about what was driving that was it timing or something else.
And in terms of U.S.
retail inventory levels of appliances would you say that that correction is done because I think you were saying that all year long you had seen sell through exceed sell in.
Denise this is Larry.
Our inventories as planned they are up year-over-year we have significant number of new product launches in the second half of the year and due to that we did increase levels of inventory now.
We will bring that level down throughout the balance of the year as we normally do but we did plan for higher inventory.
And Denise its Marc.
To your question about U.S.
retail inventories I would say buy and large our sell through of our products during Q2 exceeded the sell in on our products which basically tells you that – you probably had a slight inventory burn in our branded products in the second quarter.
Okay can you see if that’s done yet any sense because it’s been going on for quarter while now?  Well the market is – consumer market is good our brands were in high demand.
So I think that I can’t predict by retailer but I think in total we expect to have good demand.
Great thank you so much.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Ken Zener with KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hi ken.
So busy quarter here just we saw some pretty index for you guys (indiscernible) I would just reiterate the usefulness given you guys comments about the market and investors perception.
Second related to the U.S.
market given the implied back half volume that you’re talking about for the industry which you’ve already been doing.
Given that it’s a tougher comp in terms of the growth rates last year.
What kind of – from a growth rate perspective given their higher growth rates what gives you confidence of visibility into that? I mean is it the shipment; is it the declining inventory that you are seeing domestically?  Hey Ken it’s Marc Bitzer.
First of all I’m commenting the second half against the background of industry assumption; back half is 5% to 7% consistent with what I said earlier.
And the confidence which we have on our own volume growth in that environment is a) we have a massive amount of new product launches in particular laundry but also KitchenAid and small domestic appliances throughout the entire third quarter and then laundry in the fourth quarter so there is a large number of product launch is coming.
In addition we know at least in our products trade inventories are low and we see that as a business right now progresses we have pretty strong shipments.
So that gives us all the confidence for back half and of course we have a pretty firm indication of what we should expect around from the promotion period in Q3 and Q4.
So put it all together we are very confident behind our plan.
Ken the market data March through June is up 6.5% July looks good.
So we feel pretty confident with it as Marc said.
Good.
And I guess Marc you made the comment on or Larry is the $10 million related to the laundry.
I’m assuming that is that EBIT or is that sales $10 million?  Hey Ken it’s Marc.
I said significantly above $10 million and it is EBIT.
Right $10 million will be $0.09 okay so that was good.
Now moving on to another thing such a risk quarter here the $0.50 ahead in China or related at trade inventory.
If tax affects that $50 million I mean again towards $40 million EBIT my recollection was you guys had north of $200 million of sales.
Could you correspond the high EBIT impact relative to the $200 million and why that was – I guess a surprise to you guys if that wasn’t in guidance already?  Well original guidance was profitability in China and as Mike mentioned in his script sales are down significantly.
So it will be – our base China business which was a loss.
Yeah and Ken as Mike explained that the wildcard in the whole China situation is the timing of the approvals.
They set many levels of approvals we got through most of them very quickly in fact quicker than what we thought on our internal plan.
But we still have that – as Mike talked the equivalent of the SEC approval as well as the tax and all that.
In fact – as though our trade partners now believe that ultimately this is going to work out and they are preparing to do business with the new entity and the fact that they are preparing basically they didn’t buy from us.
And so we are basically – until we get this all combined we’re basically not selling anything in China.
And I think we have new lines ready to go and so on and so forth but again we just need to get this done.
We are optimistic we will get it done soon but there is a transition cost it was not forecastable simply because the variable of approval.
Okay as it sounds – it seems like the EBIT relative to the sales of $200 million-ish would imply a very high incremental EBIT versus…  Well basically you have all fixed cost and the under absorption not all was cash because some of it’s burdening stuff but yeah our whole fixed cost structure which we are now reducing very aggressively but the fact as we’re on let’s call on the small existing Whirlpool business we basically don’t sell anything.
Yes we’ve taken a beat in there.
Well I hope the guidance impact this year is a function of the upside when you choose to give guidance for that acquisition.
Well and as Mike said and I think you’re still on the one chart I mean it will be earnings and cash negative this year as we absorb all these transition expenses and we do expect the approval this year but we expect it to be a nice contributor to our overall operations beginning next year.
Very good the next point Europe Marc really we appreciate the 7% to 8% margin in guidance directionally in year three and my calculation that’s roughly 450 in EPS compared to roughly $0.60 today from Europe.
so it’s obviously very meaningful.
Could you address if any the volume assumptions that would underlie that or is that simply consolidation of the functions like distribution and overlay in production areas? Hey Ken.
First of all let me come back to process where we are we signed but we have not completed and there’s several approvals that what we have to go through.
I would just argue please bear with us until we close the transaction and then we will show you all the details about baseline assumption synergies restructuring industry forecast breakdown and everything including cash flows by year.
It is just premature and inappropriate given the state of a process where we are to go into these details.
Understood.
Thank you very much gentlemen.
Thank you.
Thanks Ken.
Thanks Ken.
And we’ll take our next question from Jay McCanless with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> First question I had is on the small appliances in North America.
can you discuss what percentage that is of revenues now and quantify and give us some numbers around what kind of growth you saw year-over-year in that business? It’s Marc and first of all let me just make a broader comments we have on small domestic appliances if you look the last three or four years we had a really really strong growth trajectory very strong clearly above market average and clearly above rest of the company.
We have this year in North America a little bit of setback which is related to two specific trade partners who kind of took inventory down there were some challenges which I would say is not reflective of the overall long-term growth trend and it’s also not reflective of what we see for example in Europe they are small domestic a third growing heavily.
Having said that we have maybe one of the largest product launches ever in Q3 in small domestic appliances that’s why I’m very confident we very quickly get back on the growth trajectory but it was somewhat a negative for us in Q2.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> All right.
and then just one other question with the Maytag has been another – was a topic conversation in the last conference call and it sounds like a fairly large product launch coming for 3Q directionally what should we expect for North American operating margins that there’s still going to be a lot of SG&amp;A loaded into there if you could give us some guidance I’d appreciate it? Yes.
It’s Marc Bitzer again.
First of all in the product launches the ones which I referred to earlier are multi-brand product launches that were basically particularly on top-loaders which is a bulk of our laundry business where we have a number of launches pretty much from September this year until Q1 next year almost the entire top-loader line.
So that is obviously a big and significant and impact to all our brands.
In addition we had a number of dishwasher launches which also continued to progress and some of our product categories so that is just giving the side of our laundry business is massive and impact of our North America business.
As you probably also know we don’t give margin guidance by region and by quarter.
I would just generally say that we have the North America 11 consecutive quarters on year-over-year market expansion and I don’t intend to break that spring.
And the only thing I’d add to Marc if you look at our 0.5 margin and what we’re guiding to for the full year we do expect second half to have a nice margin increase and we would expect that in all three of our largest regions around the world.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong>  Great thanks for taking my question.
Thank you.
Yes.
good morning everyone.
Good morning David.
Good morning David.
Good morning.
Jeff congratulations on this it’s a nice job there.
Thanks David.
I guess I wanted to give Mike to talk a little bit about Latin America.
and so far the discussion is seemed to have been focusing around the impact of the World Cup and not as much perhaps on the macro developments down there.
and so is it safe to assume that your view on the weakness down there is largely associated with the World Cup and now that’s behind us we should begin reverting back to a more normal market condition or is there bigger macro condition down there that really is at play? No David as I said in the script we think that the underlying macro environment is actually pretty good.
When you look at on unemployment rates they were down real wages are up above 3% inflation is kind of in that band it’s around 6%.
So we’re actually feeling pretty good about the macroenvironment.
there are some things the World Cup was won.
there are some elections going on.
so you never know what short-term impacts those are going to have.
but largely we think we’re going to get back to certainly a better growth environment and scenario and if you think about it in the first quarter the market was up 10% and that was down 17% for the second quarter.
so what we’re expecting is the market to rebound and certainly be flat to positive as we go forward.
And David I would add as we’ve talked in the past there’s really three pieces of our Latin America business as Brazil appliances there is the appliance business is in all the other 30 market surrounding Brazil and there is our global compressor business.
And in fact matter is our Brazil appliance business has been even in this environment performing extraordinarily well.
There was clearly a volume head in Q2 which we fully expected but even with that our appliance business performed very well.
The real weaknesses have been more international which I mean Argentina Venezuela et cetera et cetera perhaps Colombia is really a strong market in that group.
Although we’re now seeing that improve and the other part was global compressors which where we have the big presence in China and with a very very double-digit decline in the first half of the year in refrigeration that impacted that.
so all the pieces were coming back but I think the one misconception is that our Brazil appliance business is weak and it is not the market was weak but our business was very strong.
Okay.
And then Jeff if I can get just you to talk about sort of the discussion that’s in the public forum right now concerning General Electric’s appliance business and the possible sale of that business your largest competitor in the builder channel maybe you could talk about sort of the competitive strength of the competitor vulnerabilities of your builder channel business versus a change of ownership in that business.
how does that influence your overall North American competitive situation?  David I mean I only know what I read about as you do.
So I can't really comment specifically on that situation.
I can’t comment on our business is we feel very good about our position in the builder channel itself we’ve made significant inroads over the last five or six years.
And those inroad and start with the fact that we got an outstanding brand portfolio.
We can meet the needs of virtually all price levels of the marketplace which is a huge advantage.
So that supported by again that can we hit even during the downturn.
We invested heavily in new product innovation.
And then thirdly we built that market has specific system requirements from ordering delivering servicing et cetera et cetera.
And we built up our capabilities which were massive investments over a long period of time.
And so we have those capabilities.
As does the competitor you talked about.
So anyway we’re growing we’re winning new customers it’s a market that’s going to continue to grow for sometime.
And I don’t see any change in the trend that we currently have.
Thanks very much guys.
Thank you.
And will take our next question from Megan McGrath MKM Partners.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Good morning  Good morning.
Most of my questions have been answered.
But just a couple of quick follow-ups.
In Europe does the pending Indesit acquisition put any of your recent I mean its cost saving initiatives on hold until you get that completed.
Hi Megan its Marc Bitzer.
No we already announced restructuring initiatives up fully on track and will be implemented and executed.
So that is not impacted by Indesit.
Okay great.
And then just one final follow up on Latin America you’ve talked about rising prices to offset higher inflation it looks like that didn’t occur in the second quarter was that more of just a timing issue or was the inflation more aggressive than you had initially anticipated.
Yes Megan what we said actually at the end of the first quarter.
We had already announced these price increases and that they would scale in if you will over the course of the year.
And so what we are expecting is to benefit more from the price increases in the third quarter and the fourth quarter.
And as we’ve go throughout the year but it’s the same price increase that we took its how we introduced in our real life.
Great.
Thanks so much.
And our next question comes from Sam Darkatsh with Raymond James.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Inc.</strong> Good morning Jeff Marc Mike Larry how are you?  Good thank you.
Inc.</strong> Most of my questions also have been asked and answered.
But to also follow-up question.
First regarding Larry the $0.50 item the trade inventory transition how much is that impact that $0.50 is in the back half of the year versus was already recognized in the second quarter.
$15 million in Q2 the balance would be in the back half.
Inc.</strong> And should we I guess Mike assume that this is a permanent impairment of your legacy Chinese business I mean at some I don’t imagine that business is coming back even after the Hefei deal is consummated.
No what we are expecting is to actually resume and grow from the business.
And we – as we introduced new model lines we’re certainly expecting not only to recover but to grow as we expand distribution into all the distribution outlet.
So no it would not be permanent.
So what was the reasoning behind the huge take down at retail I’m confused.
Well if you think about it Hefei Sanyo is about (indiscernible).
And so what the trade knows is that there would be new model lines coming in there is probably some new terms and so what they are basically doing is kind of protecting at this point if you will there their inventory they are marking sure that they don’t have too much as they know these new lines are going to be introduced.
And so it’s kind of a one-time adjustment but they will re-buy as we move forward and as the – and from the new combined entity as the transaction is closed.
Okay as I guess what was surprising about is that wouldn’t have been flushed out within the due diligence process that that type of scale response would be a possibility.
Sam this is Jeff as I said before the variable is the timing approval so that was – that is a variable and we saw this in the second quarter which was bigger and more than we previously thought but the fact now is it’s still dependent upon the approval so that was hard to forecast it.
Inc.</strong> Understood.
Last question the acquisitions that you are making the two of them plus I’m guessing the future restructuring that’s going to occur in order to integrate does that free cash flow usage preclude any share repurchase activity this year or next.
No.
Inc.</strong> So we might expect share repurchase activity in the back half of the year once if you generate their free cash? What I would say Sam is we do intend to repurchase shares in the future and we continue to balance the various aspects of capital allocation we have but our intention would be in the future yes we would be repurchasing stock.
Inc.</strong> Okay thank you both.
Thank you all appreciated.
Thank you.
And we will go next to Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thanks two things.
First of all on the – your performance versus the AM I appreciate the distinction that it’s a bit of apples versus oranges could you just flush out a little further in 1Q I think your units were up meaningfully more than the industry number 4 versus 1 and then that reversed obviously this quarter from triple points ahead that’s 6 or 7 points behind.
You just explain a little more would change some markedly between 1Q and 2Q in that apples versus oranges comparison? Hey Eric this is Marc Bitzer again just coming back to my earlier comments I said that in Q2 if you look at the AMT-7 shipments that were mid single-digits so I didn’t say we are down we actually were up mid single-digit so which also means the rest of – difference to the overall unit shipments came from Canada small domestic and some other businesses on the means on our AM shipments we are pretty much held market share year-over-year directly.
In Q1 we picked up market share year-over-year and now we held market share.
I guess sorry to make my question clear the non T7 it looks like the performance was much weaker in 2Q than it was in 1Q that’s what I’m trying to figure out what was different in 2Q versus 1Q? I think the biggest difference you would see I mean year-over-year is Canada and small domestic appliances.
And is that – can find the 2Q or is that ongoing how should we think about that? I mean as I mentioned earlier we are very confident in our small domestic appliance business for the back half of the year it’s just back different number product launches.
And again the AM market sluggish and it has been impacted by currency therefore having significant price increases and that’s got to settle its way through.
Okay and then the second question Jeff in Europe the 7% to 8% margin target three years out is I think more than you’ve made in the past.
I’m just curious as you look at both the market and the new business or platform you will be operating there.
What’s different on either side of that that would allow this to make margins that you haven’t achieved in the past?  Well first of all we have achieved those in the past that’s been albeit a while.
Second of all there is – I think if you look at the one or two companies they have big scale these are not new levels for the industry and Marc you might want to comment on kind of the parameters.
I mean Eric to the earlier comment I mean obviously we will give you all the details post-closing and many of you will understand the assumptions about scale synergies restructuring and baseline assumption.
But I really want to refer back to Jeff’s earlier comment.
We made 7% plus margins in the 90s we made 6% plus margin in 2000 and with a lower scale position.
To Jeff’s earlier point there are players in Europe who make 8% or 9% operating margin on sustained base.
So these are not of the normal margins but obviously the key will be for you to understand post-closure of the ingredients and how we come up with that plan.
Okay thank you.
Okay with that we’re going to conclude the call here.
Thanks everyone for joining us today and we look forward to speaking with you next time.
This does conclude today’s program.
You may disconnect at this time.
Thank you and have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to Whirlpool Corporation's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Senior Director of Investor Relations Chris Conley.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Whirlpool Corporation Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
Joining me today are Jeff Fettig our Chairman and CEO; Vice Chairman Mike Todman and Marc Bitzer; as well as Larry Venturelli our Chief Financial Officer.
Our remarks today track with a presentation available on the Investors section of our website at whirlpoolcorp.com.
Before we begin let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements to assist you in understanding Whirlpool Corporation's future expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially from these statements due to many factors discussed in our latest 10-K and our other periodic reports as well as on Slide 2 and in the appendix of this presentation.
Also note that disclosure on the expectations and financial impacts of our acquisitions of majority interest in Indesit and Hefei Sanyo is currently limited due to the timing of the closing of these transactions.
Both Hefei Sanyo and Indesit are publicly traded companies with independent reporting requirements and regulations and it is not yet appropriate for us to fully discuss their financial or operational results.
Turning to Slide 3.
We want to remind you that today's presentation includes non-GAAP measures.
We believe these measures are important indicators of our operations as they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to results from our ongoing business operations.
We also think the adjusted measures will provide you with a better baseline for analyzing trends in our ongoing business operations.
Listeners are directed to the appendix section of our presentation beginning on Slide 37 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP items to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
With that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
As you saw in our earnings release we delivered a good quarter -- another good quarter of results with revenue growth margin expansion and record earnings.
Our ongoing business earnings per share were up 12% year-over-year.
These results were mainly driven by revenue growth ongoing cost productivity and the benefits of our cost and capacity initiatives.
We continued our investments in our brands and our products and we're delivering a very strong cadence of new products which will help our business in the fourth quarter and continue into next year.
In addition we are very pleased to have closed our acquisitions by acquiring a majority interest of Indesit in Europe and Hefei Sanyo in China.
Both of these acquisitions represent transformational opportunities to create value for our company.
Overall we are on track to deliver record operating profit and earnings per share this year along with strong free cash flow.
And based on the momentum we've had year-to-date we remain confident in the performance of our business and we've created multiple opportunities to drive profitable growth and value creation.
To fully communicate our comprehensive strategy for growth and review our long-term value creation opportunities we are hosting an Investors Day meeting on December 17 in Chicago.
Here we expect to share our specific plans for both our new acquisitions as well as our overall expectations for our future business performance.
Now I'll turn to Slide 6 and talk briefly about the third quarter.
As you can see our revenues were up 4% versus last year excluding currency impact and our ongoing business earnings per share increased by 32% -- or I'm sorry $0.32 to a record level of $3.04 up 12% versus last year.
On Slide 7 we've listed an update of our regional industry demand assumptions.
Overall not a lot of change.
North America continues -- we continue to expect 5%-plus growth in the U.S.
market.
That's about where we've run year-to-date through September.
In Europe we continue to expect the industry to be flat to up 2% for the full year as the region has spotty recovery across the different markets.
We are revising downward our Latin America full year assumption to minus 4% to 5% for the full year.
This really reflects the weak regional demand that we've already seen year-to-date although we have seen some modest improvement in the last couple of months.
And finally our Asia industry forecast remains flat for the year with China being modestly down and India up.
Our business performance has put us in a very strong position which has enabled us to both strengthen returns to shareholders via higher dividends and share repurchase and at the same time enabled us to invest in value-creating acquisitions.
So in total we are on track for a record year of ongoing business operating performance and we continue -- and we're continuing to build a great global platform for future growth and value creation.
With that I'm going to turn it over to Marc Bitzer.
Marc? Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on Slide 9 by reviewing North America's performance in the third quarter starting with the top line.
Net sales of $2.8 billion for North America were up 6.3% compared to the prior year and up 6.9% excluding currency.
The consistent and disciplined execution of our actions resulted in 6 consecutive quarters of year-over-year revenue growth.
Our ongoing business operating margins were at 10.9% for the quarter with a record operating profit of $304 million compared to $289 million from the third quarter of 2013.
Operating margins were relatively flat in the quarter as ongoing cost productivity and higher unit volumes were offset by the unfavorable impact of product transitions higher material costs and unfavorable currency.
Now let me take a moment to talk about our expectations for the full year 2014 as shown on Slide 10.
Overall we're pleased with our record operating profit on a year-to-date basis.
U.S.
appliance demand continued to strengthen in the third quarter.
And while we have experienced additional monthly and quarterly fluctuations we expect the full year industry to remain at its current year-to-date growth rate levels of up 5%.
We continue to see improvements in employment and consumer confidence which bodes well for all aspects of demand in the U.S.
In addition we expect positive net cost productivity from our ongoing programs to continue accelerating in the fourth quarter.
We're excited to launch many innovative new products in almost every core business product category.
In the second half of this year we have product line transitions in top mount refrigerators freezers top-load laundry and dishwashers which represent a significant portion of our overall U.S.
core business.
As expected and planned these product line transitions have unfavorable short-term impacts on product mix and margins as existing product lines were transitioned out to create space for the new product.
As the new products become available to consumers who demand very innovative new features in energy efficiency we expect revenues and margins to improve and working capital to return to more normalized levels.
Turning to Slide 11.
You can see an example of our product leadership in the laundry category.
The revolutionary new Whirlpool Cabrio washers and dryers have a fresh design increased capacity and intelligence that make clothing care easier than never.
And we're proud to bring the newest innovation dryer technology to the U.S.
market this quarter.
Our new Whirlpool HybridCare clothes dryer with ventless Hybrid Heat Pump technology an industry first in the U.S is designed to regenerate energy during the drying cycle to reduce energy consumption while providing dryer speed and performance flexibility.
I will now talk to our third quarter results for our Europe Middle East and Africa regions as shown on Slide 13.
Sales were $785 million compared to $778 million in the prior year.
Excluding currency sales increased 1.2% year-over-year.
Our cost and capacity reduction initiatives combined with ongoing productivity programs and higher unit volumes have offset unfavorable product price and mix and currency to deliver another quarter of expanded operating profit.
Operating profit was $9 million and operating margins improved 110 basis points.
Now turning to Slide 14.
While the market environment in the Eurozone remains soft we continue to see slow recovery and expect normal seasonality for the fourth quarter.
We expect positive operating profit and margin expansion driven by continued benefits from our ongoing cost productivity programs and our previously announced restructuring initiatives.
We continue to focus on our innovative new product launches and growth beyond our core.
As Jeff mentioned we were extremely pleased to close the transactions to become majority owner of Indesit.
Turning to Slide 15.
You can see that we have completed several of the key steps required in the acquisition process.
To date we have acquired a 60.4% stake in Indesit which represents 66.8% of the voting stock.
At this time court approval and the European Commission's antitrust approval have been received.
And in accordance with accounting law we have filed our notice to initiate a mandatory tender offer for remainder of Indesit's outstanding shares with intention to delist the company between the fourth quarter of 2014 and the first quarter of 2015.
As Chris mentioned in the beginning of this call our disclosures are limited at this time because Indesit is currently a publicly held company and is not yet fully owned subsidiary of Whirlpool.
Additionally Indesit has not yet disclosed their third quarter financials so any disclosure on our part would not be appropriate.
For 2014 the impact of our majority interest on earnings in our ongoing business is negligible as part of these earnings will be partially offset by purchase price accounting adjustments.
And based on Indesit's historical cash flow patterns we believe the cash flow impact in 2014 will be moderately positive.
After delisting and integration we continue to expect these transactions will be meaningful and accretive on an ongoing basis starting in 2015.
We expect efficiency in R&amp;D capital spending and value chain costs as well as operational scale with increased volume and the ability to more effectively integrate our product platforms across a larger European market position.
This acquisition represents a substantial change to our position in Europe and combined with existing cost and capacity reduction initiatives creates a path to earnings growth and long-term shareholder value creation that is independent of market recovery.
We plan to share more details on these expected benefits during our Investor Day in December.
Turning to Slide 16 you can see just one example of our innovative product development capabilities in Europe.
The Bauknecht dishwasher with PowerDry 3D airflow delivers optimum drying performance with minimal energy consumption and spotless drying.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Mike.
Thanks Marc.
If you turn to Slide 18 you'll see our Latin America results.
During the quarter our Latin America region delivered record ongoing operating profit while operating in a challenging external environment due to the end of the World Cup currency fluctuation and uncertainty around the recent government elections.
Sales for the quarter were $1.1 billion.
Despite industry volumes being down approximately 8% our net sales excluding currency and BEFIEX increased approximately 3% compared to the previous year.
We are benefiting from previously announced cost-base price increases which have accelerated in the second half of the year; new product introductions; and improved mix in our appliance business.
As we look at profit for the region our ongoing business operating profit for the quarter totaled a record $118 million compared to $104 million in the prior year period.
Improved product price and mix and new product introductions more than offset lower appliance demand and higher material cost.
GAAP operating profit totaled $118 million compared to $133 million in the prior year period which included $29 million of BEFIEX tax credits.
Turning to Slide 19 for our expectations of the region.
Our full year industry assumption has been revised to down 4% to 5% for the year reflecting lower short-term although steadily improving demand.
We continue to believe that the macroeconomic indicators in Brazil point to long-term healthy demand growth as unemployment is at historically low levels real wages are growing inflation is within the target range debt as a percent of income is primarily driven by increased investments in housing and as appliance penetration levels increase.
All of these signs are positive for appliance industry growth.
In fact the third quarter became progressively stronger as Brazil's industry demand improved from down 13% in July to down 7% in September.
We also expect to continue outperforming the industry and grow our revenue given our strong market position industry-leading brands and strong cadence of new product introduction.
The effect of our recently announced cost-base price increases along with new product introductions improved mix and continued productivity will continue to help offset negative currency impacts and significant levels of inflation experienced throughout the year as we continue to grow beyond our core and launch new models across all product lines with exciting innovation.
Turning to Slide 20.
We are highlighting growth beyond our core appliances with the first all-in-one beverage platform for our Latin American consumers in which we deliver a completely new business model including B.Blend as the first countertop appliance that can deliver hot cold and carbonated beverages.
And in partnership with Bevyz B.Blend uses a capsule-squeezing system to create automatic beverage dispensing and has 24 capsule options of beverages.
Now turning to our third quarter results in the Asia region which are shown on Slide 22.
And to fully understand these results it's important to note that there are 2 very different drivers: one our India business delivered strong results with another quarter of revenue growth and margin expansion; and two yet we continue to experience our short-term issues in our China business related to the acquisition of Hefei Sanyo.
In addition to the overall market slowdown in China our business was significantly down.
Similar to our comments in the second quarter our trade customers continued to stock and sell well-known Hefei Sanyo-branded appliances but cut back on orders of our Whirlpool-branded products until the closure of the acquisition.
These trade customers were anticipating new product lines and as a result of our integration with Hefei Sanyo and in order to avoid excess inventory they postponed ordering Whirlpool products.
As a result our sales declined significantly in the quarter impacting margins and production volumes which contributed to the 20% revenue decline and $8 million operating loss in Asia for the third quarter.
Now that the acquisition is closed we expect to return to far more positive revenue growth as we launch our new integrated product lines that leverage the combined technology of both Whirlpool and Hefei Sanyo and we will begin launching these new products in November.
With the transition issues largely behind us we are confident that this acquisition will put us in a very strong position as we enter 2015.
Turning to Slide 23.
We continue to execute ongoing productivity actions and implement previously announced cost-base price increases across the region to offset inflation in currency and to execute new product launches.
Lastly we are prepared for a successful integration as we have become the majority shareholder of Hefei Sanyo and will leverage the combined company to accelerate our growth in the emerging Chinese market.
As shown on Slide 24 we have received all of the approvals and completed all of the steps required to acquire a 51% stake in Hefei Sanyo.
We have acquired Hefei Sanyo's expanded distribution of over 30 000 distribution points competitive products and significant capacity in a complementary low-cost manufacturing base.
Combined with a proven management team that has consistently delivered growth and results that on average deliver 7% to 8% operating profit margins we have created an outstanding platform of -- for growth in China.
As we move forward with the integration process transition costs will be behind us and we will focus on driving sales growth and cost synergies to deliver profitable growth and reinvest in our business.
At a very high level our combined China business with this acquisition would be over $1 billion in sales and our earnings accretion would be approximately $0.80 to $0.90 per share compared to a 2014 baseline.
That accretion is based purely on the recovery of our base China sales added together with our portion of Hefei Sanyo's 2013 operating performance.
Therefore once integrated we expect this transaction will be meaningfully accretive to 2015 and beyond.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Larry.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Let me start on Slide 27.
Our full year ongoing business EPS guidance remains in the range of $11.50 to $12 which represents a 15% to 20% improvement versus a year ago.
The business is performing very well and we continue to navigate effectively through global volatility in demand currencies and material costs.
Given the accelerated pace we have been on to close both the acquisitions we are increasing acquisition-related costs during the fourth quarter and are adjusting GAAP guidance to a range of $9.40 to $9.90 per share.
This change reflects incremental investment expenses and purchase price accounting adjustments related to the acquisitions as well as additional restructuring charges primarily related to integration activities.
These charges will enable us to accelerate the benefits of the acquisition.
A reconciliation of these adjustments to GAAP EPS can be found in the appendix on Slide 44.
It's important to note that all changes to our original guidance have been related to upfront costs to acquire both Hefei and Indesit.
Our base business continues to perform in line with our original guidance for the year.
Our expectations for 2014 free cash flow of $650 million to $700 million have increased from previous guidance due to our strong underlying operating performance and expected incremental cash flow from the recently acquired companies.
As I speak to the financial results on Slides 28 through 30 you'll see how we continued to expand our ongoing business operating margin in the first 9 months of this year and expect to deliver another balanced approach towards margin expansion.
Year-to-date price/mix is up by 0.5 point and we expect to realize 0.5 point of margin for the year driven by our previously announced cost-base price increases innovative new product launches and growth beyond our core business.
Our cost and capacity reduction initiatives contributed another 0.5 point consistent with our full year guidance.
For the first 9 months of 2014 our cost productivity more than offset material cost inflation of approximately $140 million to deliver a positive 0.25 point of margin expansion.
And our cost productivity for the year is on track to more than offset approximately $150 million to $200 million of year-over-year material cost inflation and is expected to deliver a positive 0.5 point of margin for 2014.
Our planned increases in marketing technology product investments and the impact of currency reduced margins by 0.75 point year-to-date which is in line with the full year guidance.
Given the combined impact from initially consolidating the acquisitions and required purchase accounting adjustments we expect that acquisition margins in the near term will be slightly dilutive by about 0.5 point.
More importantly as we integrate the businesses and realize synergies we expect the impact of both businesses to be accretive to our margins.
As a result we are expecting full year operating margins of approximately 7.5%.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions we are firmly on track with our previous guidance of 8% margins.
Ongoing business operating profit for the third quarter reflects revenue growth ongoing cost productivity and the benefits of cost and capacity reduction initiatives.
Lower volumes largely attributable to demand softness in Brazil and China higher material costs and unfavorable currency negatively impacted results.
As a note third quarter gross margins were down about 1 point versus the prior year on a GAAP basis.
This drop was driven primarily by unfavorable currency and nonrecurring BEFIEX tax credits from last year.
We continue to expect a strong finish to the year with our new product launches a ramp-up in productivity and Latin America price increases taking full effect.
We believe our expected operating margin improvements combined with positive revenue growth will enable us to deliver strong double-digit improvement in ongoing business earnings per share during the fourth quarter.
As we turn to Slide 31 we have a few updates on liquidity.
Our balance sheet remains strong and our credit ratings were reaffirmed post acquisitions.
We recently renegotiated and increased our credit facilities.
We will fund our acquisitions with approximately $500 million in cash and $1.5 billion in debt.
During 2016 we expect to return to preacquisition debt metrics.
As we continue to improve margins and grow revenues our plans to deploy the cash generated from our business are solid as shown on Slide 32.
We are funding the business for growth and significant product introductions.
Earlier this year our board increased quarterly dividends on the company's common stock and authorized a new $500 million share repurchase program.
As referenced since resuming our share repurchase program in 2013 we have repurchased approximately $375 million in stock.
Finally as previously mentioned we are spending approximately $2 billion to fund the acquisitions of Hefei Sanyo and Indesit.
In summary given our profitable growth trends increased investment capacity and strong balance sheet we continue to balance funding for all aspects of our business to ensure the best long-term value creation for our shareholders.
Let me take just a few minutes to walk you through our cash flow assumptions and a brief update on restructuring.
We historically use cash in the first half of the year and generate cash in the second half.
This year is no different.
In the fourth quarter we expect to generate cash through strong cash earnings and working capital improvements.
As for restructuring we have incurred approximately $100 million for charges year-to-date.
For the full year 2014 we expect approximately $150 million of charges and $80 million of ongoing benefits.
This reflects an increase of $50 million in charges from our previously -- previous guidance largely associated with our acquisitions of majority interests in Hefei Sanyo and Indesit.
We expect to update our forward view of these items and share details of our long-term value creation strategy as Jeff mentioned with you at our Investor Day on December 17 in Chicago.
Due to the expected demand for the event our Investor Day will be webcast for those investors and analysts who are not able to attend in person.
Those webcast details will be provided in early December.
Now I'll turn it back over to Jeff.
Thanks Larry.
I'll turn to Slide 34 where I'll summarize our expectations for the year.
Again we delivered another quarter of revenue growth margin expansion that resulted in record earnings.
We are continuing to invest in our brands and have a very strong lineup of innovative products coming to market in the fourth quarter and into 2015 so we feel we're very well positioned to capitalize on improving global demand trends.
And as I mentioned our acquisitions provide us with a truly transformational growth opportunity to create significant value through successful integration.
So overall we remain confident in our ability to deliver a full year record year of operating performance in 2014 with our operating margins in line with our stated goal of 8% excluding the impact of acquisitions.
I would point out our 8% goal is a milestone.
It's not a destination for us.
And if you turn to Slide 35 this frames our comprehensive strategy for growth that we've now created where we believe we can grow our revenues expand our margins and create significant shareholder value.
We are growing geographically through our acquisitions in Europe and China as well as expanding our emerging markets exposure in those markets where we see appliance growth opportunities and favorable demographics.
Our North America region is poised for multiple years of growth through a strong replacement cycle continued improvements in housing and improving discretionary demand.
And from a product and brand perspective we have a very strong cadence of innovative products coming to the market which will benefit customers around the world.
We believe these investments will deliver both revenue growth and margin expansion.
And finally we have opportunities to fully leverage our global fixed cost structure and drive ongoing cost productivity around the world.
This will ensure our competitive position and continue to help improve our margins.
So we believe that these multiple paths for profitable growth geographical expansion brand and product innovation and cost structure improvements provide us with an outstanding opportunity to achieve our next level of performance and in doing so we'll deliver strong value creation for our shareholders.
So we do look forward to sharing in more detail these plans at our Investor Day in December.
With that I'd like to end our formal remarks and we'll now open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Ken Zener with KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> So Latin America did far better than I think most people expected in line with kind of what you were talking about.
Look you guys talked about so much good news.
I'm going to try to pick a hole in North America margins here.
The lower incremental margins year-over-year is that attributable -- I mean the Maytag obviously 11% nearly 11% it's a very good margin but in terms of incremental did that have any particular drags that are related to product introductions marketing or anything that you'd like to call out versus the longer-term 15% incremental EBIT? Okay.
Ken it's Marc Bitzer.
First of all thanks on picking on North America.
But apart from that as you highlight first of all 11% operating margins in a historic context and also when you look at our competitive results it's nothing I'm going to apologize for.
Having said that at the same time and we alluded in the script a little bit I think there's always a couple of items in there in every quarter but I think what was -- which was particular strong was the amount of product transitions.
And to put that in context product transitions are a part of our life.
We typically transition every year about 20% to 30% of our products.
If you know that in this quarter we transitioned the entire top mount refrigerators the entire freezers the entire top loader line you know this is well well beyond normal.
Transition costs in both sides of the equation: the cost in manufacturing efficiency because you're ramping down ramping up; but even more so it costs you basically on pricing because you basically -- you have to discount the end of a line to create new space.
So if there was one factor to highlight I think it's the unusual amount of product transitions in Q3 which also is by and large behind us.
There's some carryover in Q4 but it's by and large behind us.
Research Division</strong> Good.
And I guess is there a way for you to quantify a normal product transition in terms of drag so we can understand the impact on the third quarter? Ken let me just maybe rephrase the answer like different.
First of all it has been unusually high and it had a material impact.
Having said that let me ask the other way around -- or answer the other way around.
The 11% in our view does not mark at all a ceiling of our North America margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I do appreciate your comments on the Hefei Sanyo.
I think it's the first time you've talked about the earnings accretion.
So the $0.80 to $0.90 that was discussed off of -- on your business when it's fully integrated I believe that -- and if you could clarify I believe that it counts for roughly $0.50 of drag in 2014.
So the guidance for Hefei Sanyo would be in the $0.30 to $0.40 range if that's true.
And then second because you now own it can -- how should we think about the fourth quarter sales impact? You talked about a big drag in the third quarter and purchase accounting that's getting pushed below the line.
How should we think about the operational EBIT that you're kind of guiding to? Okay.
Well Ken first of all I think your math is right.
It was about $0.50 of drag.
And then all we've done is add the $0.30 to $0.40 based on their performance this year okay? So that really doesn't speak to what our expectations are moving forward.
In terms of sales improvement in the fourth quarter clearly we expect to see a good increase in sales as we begin to floor the new product lines throughout distribution.
I'm not going to give a specific guidance on the EBIT number.
But yes you're right there will be a PPA adjustment but all of that is factored into kind of our overall view and outlook.
Ken this is Jeff.
And again we'd like to be more -- we just closed Friday on Hefei and basically about 10 days ago on Indesit.
We obviously know the business we've modeled the businesses so on and so forth.
But I would just say there's a lot of moving parts at this point in time that -- everywhere from their run rates our run rates and so on.
They -- both businesses continue to perform in line with what they've seen which are both publicly -- public information.
There's just accounting activities that will be impacted.
So our overall guidance at this point as it relates to the fourth quarter is largely negligible on the earnings side.
It could be a little up could be a little down.
We don't really know right now.
We do think on the cash side it will be marginally up.
So I wouldn't worry so much about the fourth quarter.
I think we'll get all that behind us.
And then when we talk about next year we can talk about how these pieces really -- what I would call the expanded Whirlpool will look like by region.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just ask one more.
Brazil the outperformance given I believe investors' baseline can you guys talk about having a record EBIT there? And I know that there were some doubters.
Can you discuss why that was so strong? I mean is it just that the pricing you were able to get really offset obviously cost-base inflation or currency inflation? But why are the margins -- was there something really unique in the quarter? Because it was a very strong performance obviously given the volume there.
Just a little more clarity since that was one of the main concerns for investors.
Yes thanks.
There wasn't Ken just to answer your question anything particularly unique.
We had -- we have 3 factors.
One was the cost-base price increases which I think I commented in the second quarter would begin to take full effect as we went throughout the year.
Second is we've had and continued to have new products that we're introducing into the marketplace and those products are -- that we introduced generally have a higher ASP and a higher margin associated with them.
And then thirdly that's also driven mix.
So it's really all those 3 factors that have -- that drove the performance of Latin America.
Yes and Ken I would just add but it's pretty much in line with what we expected and we talked about in our Q2 call that we were taking strong actions to offset inflation to deal with currency devaluation and so on.
But to Mike's point the other part was we've been investing very strongly in our product innovation and product leadership there.
So a lot of these new products really have helped the mix along with the price increase and help us more than offset this down market.
We'll take our next question from David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
I guess I wanted to ask you just about the noncore business you like to talk about in the adjacencies business and just how that's setting up for the fourth quarter.
I know it's a seasonal business.
Fourth quarter is very important.
How's your offering versus last year? Can you talk about any gains in listings? And how do you quantify that for us? Well David this is Jeff.
Let me just talk globally.
I mean we've got I mean a number of things that are reflected in really regions around the world.
But if I take our KitchenAid small and domestic appliance business globally it's growing very nicely.
I think you've seen a lot of the new product innovation new launches that are going on right now.
They're on a limited basis on distribution.
But that business is going strong going well.
Our water business worldwide is good very good in many parts of the world.
Water/beverage you saw the new B.Blend introduction in Brazil which is a world's first beverage product but that's just now starting up.
So as I look at these businesses around the world all continue to improve.
We have some businesses growing double digit some just starting up.
You've probably seen our new SWASH launch here in -- starting in the United States that really started in September and started shipments in October.
So we've got a combination of big businesses growing high single or double digits and a lot of new seeds that are just taking hold and beginning to grow.
But in total these businesses represent a little over 20% of our business.
And as I've said before they have significantly higher margins than what we call if you will our traditional core.
So there -- I think we'll have a good fourth quarter.
Good.
A question on Latin America just to follow up on the previous discussion.
It seems like volumes are getting better according to Michael's comments.
And I guess the question is in a scenario where volumes recover can you continue to maintain the pricing? Or does competitive forces begin to erode that? Well David I won't comment specifically on that.
I think what we've done is executed our plan.
But what we're seeing in the market is what we expected.
It's still a little volatile but we're performing the way we expect with new products.
And we're comfortable kind of where we are in terms of our execution of the prices.
Yes David we talked about Brazil but I'd say all of Latin America and I'd say other emerging markets like Russia Turkey India et cetera where we have a lot of dynamics going on at all times.
We have rapid demand changes rapid currency changes high levels at times of inflation and so on and so forth.
And what we feel good in our business is we've got very experienced leaders in each and every one of these markets.
There's no one way to manage through this.
You have to try to stay ahead of the change curve and so far we've been doing a pretty good job at that this year.
So Brazil we're going to have -- despite the environment we're going to have a record year in Brazil.
The rest of Latin America we were off to a slow start in the beginning but we're tracking very well throughout Latin America.
So it's not just one thing.
It's managing all this volatility together.
And fortunately we have the size and scope of the business that we can lead these changes in the marketplace and that's what we've been doing.
And we'll take our next question from Denise Chai with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just want to ask first on guidance.
You said that in the fourth quarter given the acquisitions the impact from acquisitions could be up or it could be down.
Does your guidance which you've maintained at $11.50 to $12 include any impact from acquisitions? What we said Denise was the current ongoing guidance we said that the acquisitions would be neutral to the earnings.
And that's just obviously due to the fact that we haven't had the businesses for the full quarter.
We haven't begun integrating the businesses where we have some purchase accounting that we're factoring into the business and then we're absorbing a little bit more interest.
So net-net essentially it'll be neutral.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of your -- the raise in your free cash flow guidance how much of that can we attribute to Indesit? I would say the acquisitions in total -- and I would just take into consideration the fact that we have some higher acquisition-related costs we're doing a little bit more restructuring.
But in general I'd say around in that $100 million range combined acquisitions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But that's -- okay.
So in the slides you said that Indesit was going to be a -- it would contribute positively to free cash flow.
And we are.
I'm saying combine the -- the combined businesses will contribute -- the acquired businesses will contribute about approximately $100 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
Got it.
Could you talk a little bit about the change in working capital you saw this quarter? Was it really just related to new product transitions? Or was there something seasonal or perhaps related...
Yes I'd say our working capital year-over-year is up marginally I think $35 million $40 million on a year-over-year basis.
Historically what we do you see just due to seasonality of our business working capital will come down in the fourth quarter.
We'd estimate that to probably in the range of $700 million and we'll generate essentially the remainder of the cash through cash earnings.
And we'll take our next question from Jay McCanless with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> First question I had is on raw materials.
Can you comment on what specific commodities caused the cost pressure this quarter? And am I reading the guidance correctly that you expect some of that to abate in 4Q? Yes yes Jay we've got a couple of things.
One in the currency markets we've had raw material increases across the board all year.
But -- and that would be Latin America and India and places like that.
But as we highlighted before we were particularly negatively impacted in some regional markets and the -- but probably the biggest single one is steel in the U.S.
which is higher than we expected and everything else is pretty much as we expected.
In terms of reductions there's clearly been a big change in the external environment over the last 30 days whether it be oil or input costs or base metals or so on and we'll have to see what happens.
I mean we don't have a new forecast for the year but clearly the external environment from just a pure raw materials cost appears to be turning downward which if that holds that ought to translate into lower material costs.
Research Division</strong> And then the second question I had was looking at promotion you guys said that you transitioned to the new lines.
Looked like it was a drag on gross margin this quarter.
That should be done with.
How much are you thinking about increasing promotions or adding some SG&amp;A to really push for the holiday season and push some of these new brands? And are you expecting the spend for that to be up on a year-over-year basis assuming that you've got more product launches et cetera? But on an apples-to-apples basis do you expect the spend is going to be up for the promotional activities going into the holiday season? Jay it's Marc Bitzer.
Let me try to answer this one.
As we indicated in earlier calls we will not give forward-looking statements on promotional pricing strategies.
However let me just comment on Q3.
And our past behavior in Q3 I want to underline is consistent with our past behaviors in promotion.
And I think we've got to differentiate between promotions on one side and product transitions on the other side.
Promotions we always said we will participate when we see a value-creation opportunity for us and the consumer and that policy hasn't changed in Q3.
What is different in Q3 is the unusual high amount of product transitions.
And when you -- whenever you do product transitions it's kind of a closeout but you just -- you need to put certain investments in market in order to free up the space.
And that has been higher than normal -- I mean higher than a normal quarter in a normal year but that is largely behind us.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Rehaut with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> First question on -- just wanted to circle back to Latin America with the good performance there the strong performance there.
Just trying to get a sense for the ongoing timing with the cost-base price increases against currency and inflation.
And given how currency has moved throughout the last 2 3 months just wanted to get a sense to your best estimate on the current level of profitability here a little bit over 10%.
Given where currency and perhaps also inflation has moved during the quarter is this number sustainable near term? Or would there be additional actions required to allow this level to be maintained? Yes I think Michael probably the best way to answer that question is kind of go back to the beginning of the year.
When we saw what the environment was we took appropriate actions.
And I talked earlier in the year that we took some cost-base price increases.
Actually I think we took 2 price increases.
But it's more than that.
We're kind of looking at what's going on in the environment all the time.
We're launching new products all the time.
We're looking at how best we can manage our mix and improve our mix during the course of time.
So I do think we are at margin levels that we can sustain.
I mean so that -- and I think we just do what we need to do in terms of what we execute in the market.
There's nothing that we've seen that's unexpected so we're basically operating in an environment that we expect and executing what we need to to deliver at these operating margin levels.
Research Division</strong> So in other words Mike given what we've seen over the last month or 2 you wouldn't expect to see an incremental negative impact on margins all else equal? Well I don't expect to see that no.
The only thing I would add Michael is the price increases were taken throughout the third quarter and there will be additional benefit in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful Larry.
And I guess just a second question.
Going back to North America for a moment I know there's been a few questions around that potential impact of the product transitions and I guess we're not going to get necessarily a quantifiable answer.
But just looking forward certainly it appears that you're saying that there would be some type of drag that would alleviate in the 4Q.
And if you can't necessarily break that out from a numerical aspect I was just thinking about longer term in this business I think in general perhaps you've talked about an incremental margin of 20% 25% on a consolidated basis and certainly that would apply to North America.
Is that still the right way to think about this business as you grow it going forward? Michael it's Marc Bitzer.
Let me try to take a shot at your question.
First of all no we're not going to quantify by expense transitions and what it means for Q4.
But again keep in mind there's 2 aspects to this one.
We had in Q3 inefficiencies on both the cost side and the pricing side.
Going forward first of all that's going to be absent largely.
Second of all of course as we -- when we introduce a product like the new top-load washer which we believe is absolutely industry leading we also expect higher sales and higher margin realization otherwise we wouldn't introduce new products.
So we feel extremely confident about these new products that we're introducing.
So that on its own should help us on posting even stronger margins going forward.
And we'll take our next question from Megan McGrath of MKM Partners LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to switch to Asia a little bit.
Your inventory reduction issues are happening at the same time where there's some concern over slowing growth.
So do you have any sense excluding the inventory pull-down what the overall market for appliances is doing in China right now? Yes the overall market in appliances was slightly down year-to-date Megan 1% to 2%.
So it's not significant.
And we expect that the market will be somewhere in that range through the course of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then when I think about this I know you'll give us more detail in mid-December but if I think about that business moving forward you just closed the acquisition should we expect that you'll see a little bit more of that inventory pull-down this quarter? Or do you think that's pretty much 100% done? I think Megan that that's pretty much done.
As I mentioned we are launching new products in the Whirlpool brand starting in November.
So we've got to get those products floored.
We've got to get the inventory out there.
So I'm expecting to see some improvement as we move forward from now.
And we'll take our next question from Tom Mahoney with Cleveland Research.
Tom on for Eric Bosshard today.
I wanted to know that as you look at Latin America and the units down there it sounded like the market was maybe a little better than your unit shipments down there.
What were the moving pieces within that in the quarter? Yes Tom we did lose a little bit of market share in the quarter not unexpected.
We expected it.
Year-to-date our share is flat and we expect that we'll begin to recover that over the course of the remainder of the year.
So we're actually feeling pretty good about where we're positioned.
Okay.
And then you talked about September -- or kind of exiting the third quarter down 7% year-over-year.
What are you expecting for growth as you move kind of through 4Q and into 2015? Well I'm not -- I won't give 2015 at this point but we are expecting the market still to be down in the fourth quarter.
And that still achieves the guidance that we get.
And we'll take our next question from Denise Chai with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Given that the China market's still a little bit on the soft side could you comment please on your global compressor business and how that performed during the quarter? Yes Denise.
Our global compressor business actually our revenues were up in the third quarter despite the soft market.
But if you remember we're comping against a quarter where last year there was a port closure.
So I would say overall if you normalize the compressor sales are slightly down in total from an industry perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
Just 2 more quick questions.
Could you please give us the gross margin by region? And then just looking at your corporate cost line so far this year it's kind of been running at $47 million $48 million a quarter.
This quarter it was only $36 million.
Is this lower level sustainable? Or was there something one-off? I think we provide the operating profit by region.
Well the Q will be out later today and I think you'll have that Denise so you can have -- take a look at that.
And then your question was on corporate -- the corporate line? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Figure a couple hundred million dollars of what we call corporate administrative costs and then you'll have $150 million in restructuring that goes into that line item.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back to our speakers for closing remarks.
Well listen being no more questions again we appreciate your interest in this call.
Again we're really -- we're pleased so far with the performance we've delivered this year and we look forward to updating you on our longer-term view of our business as we mentioned on December 17.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's program.
You may disconnect at this time.
Thank you and have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to Whirlpool Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Senior Director of Investor Relations Chris Conley.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Whirlpool Corporation fourth quarter 2014 conference call.
Joining me today are Jeff Fettig our Chairman and CEO; Vice Chairman Mike Todman and Marc Bitzer; as well as Larry Venturelli our Chief Financial Officer.
Our remarks today track with a presentation available on the Investors section of our Website at whirlpoolcorp.com.
Before we begin let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements to assist you in understanding Whirlpool Corporation's future expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially from these statements due to many factors discussed in our latest 10-K and our other periodic reports as well as on Slide 2 and in the appendix of this presentation.
Due the complexities of our acquisitions and recent currency fluctuations we're also providing additional clarification on operating profit margin expectations by region for 2015.
These expectations are being provided on a one-time basis to provide clarity around our recent acquisitions and will not be updated on a go forward basis.
Turning to Slide 3.
We want to remind you that today's presentation includes non-GAAP measures.
We believe these measures are important indicators of our operations as they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to results from our ongoing business operations.
We also think the adjusted measures will provide you with a better baseline for analyzing trends in our ongoing business operations.
Listeners are directed to the appendix section of our presentation beginning on Slide 36 for a reconciliation of non-GAAP items to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
With that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
As we discussed at our investors day in December 2014 was a milestone year for us.
We delivered a record year of revenue and ongoing earnings and are creating an exceptional platform for growth and margin expansion for the future.
During the year we completed two very important acquisitions in China and Europe and we have accelerated the immigration activities of both.
Overall for the year we grew our revenue; we expanded our margins drove ongoing productivity and delivered restructuring benefits.
While at the same time we continue to invest our preferred brands and innovative products.
So as a result we generated a strong year of result including cash flow we ended the year with a strong balance sheet and we have created multiple opportunities to create value going forward.
I'll now turn to Slide 6 where you see our financials.
And as you can see again we delivered good results for the year slightly above our most recent guidance with record revenue and ongoing earnings.
Excluding the impact of currency our revenues were up 8% versus last year and our ongoing business earnings per diluted share increased to record level at $11.39 compared to $10.02 last year.
Our free cash flow grew year-over-year $164 million to $854 million and we effectively deployed that cash in line with our priorities.
Turning to Slide 7 we highlight our business priorities for the year.
First we remain confident in our ability to integrate our acquisitions and deliver these synergies which we previously communicated.
We do expect top line growth margin expansion price mix improvement with our new product launches in our continued growth in our extend and expanding categories.
We will execute our ongoing productivity programs and leverage a much broader global operating platform to improve the efficiency or our productivity actions in our investments.
And as we've seen over the last several years we do expect volatility for movements and things like currency which we've seen raw materials and emerging market demand.
But we do fully expect to offset these actions through our own actions throughout the course of the year.
So as a result I'll turn to Slide 8 and we're reiterating our financial guidance for 2015 as we announced in December we expect our ongoing business diluted EPS outlook is to deliver $14 to $15 per share.
Our free cash flow forecast for the year is this range of $700 million and $800 million and again that includes all of our restructuring and additional capital included with our new acquisitions.
I now would turn to Slide 9 and just briefly summarize our long-term strategy that we discussed about a month ago at our investors day.
We have outlined multiple opportunities for growth and margin expansion which really follow under three main pillars.
The first is geographical expansion.
Our acquisitions provides with outstanding opportunities to truly transform and change our business position in both Europe and China which we think will create substantial sources of value creation and a diversification globally of our earnings profile.
Additionally we have great opportunities for growth as demand in the U.S.
continues to recover which we expect will happen not only this year but over a number of years ahead and we're very well positioned to capitalize when growth does return to emerging markets such as Brazil China India and Russia.
The second important pillar for us is our product and brand innovation.
We continue to accelerate our investments in those relevant technologies in new products which clearly benefit our end consumers.
We’re also continuing to drive revenue growth in those areas that expand and extend with our core appliance business and we will continue to accelerate growth in these higher margin categories.
And finally we have a great opportunity to create value with what we believe is the best global cost structure in our industry.
We will continue to drive ongoing cost productivity programs globally leverage what we believe is our right size fixed cost structure with volume growth and we’ll reduce complexity through our introduction of high volume global platforms.
So in total we are on track for another record year of business operating performance and we believe we’ll continue to build a great global platform that will drive future growth and strong value creation.
So with that I’m going to turn over to Marc Bitzer to give us a view on North America and Europe.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on slide 11 by reviewing North America’s performance in the fourth quarter starting with the top-line.
Net sales of $2.8 billion for North America were up 4.1% compared to a prior year period and up 5.1% excluding currency this is number seventh consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue growth.
Our fourth quarter operating margins were 9% with operating profit of $255 million compared to $301 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our operating margins were down in the quarter as ongoing cost productivity and higher unit volumes were offset by several drivers the impact of product transitions very unfavorable currency in Canada and Mexico and what is most likely the last quarter of higher material costs.
Similarly while higher fourth quarter our volumes were negatively impacted by very aggressive and value destroying promotions on import products.
And as we’ve consistently stated we only participate in promotion activity where we can create value for our shareholders and our brands.
Why we are not surprised by these results we’re not satisfied with them either so we are taking actions to drive our margin to 10.5% to 11.5% in 2015 as shown on slide 12.
The product transitions largely behind us we expect the new product line to increase revenue and improve price a mix we believe our business has a right sized fix cost structure with enough capacity to meet the demand of industry growth as well as growth from our strong cadence of new product launches.
Our business priorities for 2015 all things to grow beyond our core business in areas like KitchenAid small appliances Gladiator garage products and our recently introduced Swash product.
And from an operating perspective we will continue to drive ongoing cost productivity.
As Jeff mentioned we believe raw materials will have a neutral to slightly positive impact in our operating margin.
And as we have stated previously we believe U.S.
industries in the beginning of a multi-year recover.
2014 was up 65 and we expect the full year 2015 industry to be in the 4% to 6%.
We continue to see improvements in housing trends consumer sentiment and discretionary spending which we expect will translate into increased appliance demand in the U.S.
Current trends of low real wage growth and unfavorable accounts you have a two factors that we believe have a potential to negatively impact our business.
However in total we feel confident in our plans to mitigate both risks and deliver operating margin of 10.5% to 11.5% in 2015.
I’ll now talk to a fourth quarter result for our Europe Middle East and Africa region as shown on slide 14.
Due to the timing of the acquisition these results include a partial core of consolidated results.
Sales were $1.7 billion compared to $800 million in the prior year.
In addition to positive organic demand growth over 800 million of revenue growth was provided by the acquisition.
Our cost and capacity reduction initiatives combined ongoing productivity programs moving of the product price mix and unfavorable currency to deliver another quarter of expanding operating profit.
Ongoing operating profit was $101 million as ongoing operating margin of 6.1%.
It is important to note that our business along with Ignis' has strong seasonality impact but has historically driven much higher margins in the fourth quarter.
For the full year 2015 we’re expecting operating margin of 4% to 5% as shown on slide 15.
Our integration activities are progressing very well and are on track to deliver synergies.
We expect positive operating profit and margin expansion driven by growth beyond our core new product launches and continue benefit from our ongoing cost productivity programs.
The margin environment in the Eurozone continues it slow recovery so we’re expecting industry to be flat to up 2% over year.
Our raw materials are expected to be neutral to slightly positive we expect a significant unfavorable currency impact which we plan to offset for productivity accelerated integration activities and the benefits of previously announced cost base pricing.
Overall we believe our business priorities and mitigating action plans for headwinds will deliver operating margin of 4% to 5%.
And now I’d like to turn it over to Mike.
Thanks Marc.
Let me begin with our Latin America results in slide 17.
During the fourth quarter our Latin America region delivered record ongoing operating profit or operating in a challenging external environment; sales for the quarter were 1.3 billion down 7.6% from the previous year primarily due to unfavorable currency and reduced demand which was down approximately 2% during the quarter.
However our net sales excluding currency and BEFIEX increased just over 1% compared with the previous year.
Our ongoing business operating profit for the quarter totaled $149 million or 11.7% of sales compared to $130 million and 9.7% in the prior year period.
Previously announced cost based price increases new product introductions and improved mix in our appliance business more than offset lower industry demand higher material cost and unfavorable currency.
Turning to Slide 18 we summarize our expectations for the region in 2015.
We will continue to successfully manage through a challenging external environment as a result we believe that price mix along with continued productivity and restructuring benefits will continue to help offset these external factors.
We continue to focus on growth beyond our core and launching new models with exciting innovation across all product lines.
As discussed in the past we also believe that the low appliance penetration rates real wage growth and other macroeconomic indicators in Brazil point to long-term healthy demand growth.
Although currently we face volatility in the short-term we will offset it with appropriate actions which may include productivity improvements cost reductions and price mix.
Given this volatility we expect industry demand to be flat to down 3% for 2015.
However we also expect to continue outperforming the industry and growing our revenue with industry leading brands and a strong cadence of new product introductions.
As we look at the total business we expect operating margins of 10% to 11%.
Now turning to our fourth quarter results in the Asia region which are shown on Slide 20.
So we closed on our acquisition at the end of October it is important to note that these numbers include a partial quarter of consolidated results.
Net sales were $282 million compared to $177 million in the prior year period.
Over a $160 million of this revenue growth was provided by the acquisition.
Consistent with our expectations as we combine these two organizations ongoing operating profit of $17 million improved by $7 million and ongoing were up slightly compared to prior year period.
Growth related to our acquisition continued strength in our India business positive price mix and the benefits of cost and capacity reductions were partially offset by unfavorable currency.
Turning to Slide 21.
We have been accelerating our integration activities and expect to see benefits beginning in 2015.
We are excited to bring our trade customers and consumers new integrated product lines that leverage our global technology organization.
And with the transition issues largely behind us we are focusing on driving sales growth and cost synergies to deliver profitable growth and reinvest in our business.
We are confident this acquisition has put us in a very strong position to leverage our new growth platform in China going forward.
Operationally we continue to execute ongoing productivity actions and benefit from previously announced cost based price increases across the region to offset inflation and currency.
We expect favorable macro trends to continue in India and relatively neutral trends to continue in China.
For the Asia region in total we expect industry growth of 1% to 3%.
For the full year 2015 we believe accomplishing our business priorities will deliver operating margins of 7% to 8%.
Now I'd like to turn it over Larry.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Let me start with our fourth quarter results on Slides 23 and 24 and then transition into our guidance for 2015.
Our fourth quarter results were largely in line with the guidance provided in mid-December as we delivered slightly stronger earnings per share and free cash flow.
Reported net sales during the fourth quarter were 6 billion compared to 5.1 billion last year excluding the impact of both foreign currency and BEFIEX credits bills were up over 22% compared to the same prior year period.
As Jeff mentioned we were pleased to close on two major acquisitions late in the year.
Our results include a partial quarter for the acquired companies which translated into approximately 1 billion of additional sales.
Due primarily to acquisition related cost and the previous year benefit from BEFIEX credits operating margins were down 2 points versus the prior year on a GAAP basis.
However fourth quarter ongoing business operating profit increased 18% driven by higher sales ongoing cost productivity and the benefits of cost and capacity reduction initiatives.
Lastly our tax rate for the full year of 2014 was approximately 22%.
The rate was lower than our guidance of 24 due to benefits from tax extended legislation in the U.S.
that was approved very late in 2014.
Our 2015 tax guidance remains at 24% for both GAAP and ongoing while the range could be 22% to 25%.
As a general reminder Slides 36 to 47 in the appendix will provide you with reconciliations of our non-GAAP financial measures to reported GAAP measure.
In total the business performed well and delivered another record year of ongoing earnings.
Before I move on to our outlook for 2015 I would like to put the 2015 estimated impacts of cost headwinds into context by looking at our results over the past three years on Slide 25.
From 2012 to 2014 higher raw material costs and unfavorable currency have averaged approximately $300 million or just over 1.5% of sales.
During this time period we were successful in offsetting these external headwinds and our ongoing operating margins grew from less than 5% in 2015 to approximately 7.5% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Recently there have been fluctuations in several currencies around the globe however we're also seeing a partial offset to currencies from positive trends in commodity prices.
We currently estimate the net impact of headwinds in 2015 to be about 300 million which is consistent with what we've successfully managed through over the past few years.
We expect to fully offset this year's headwinds to productivity favorability and material cost of roughly 50 million new product introductions and previously announced cost base pricing.
In fact we have implemented prices increases in Canada and Russia during the fourth quarter in addition to previously implemented price increases in Brazil.
Given the significant recent changes in currencies over the past 45 days let me make some general comments regarding 2015 first half versus second half earnings expectations beginning on Slide 26.
The normal seasonality in our industry and demand environment thrives a ramp up of both volume and productivity as we progress throughout the year.
So the second half is typically more positive than the first half.
As we look the macro-variables for 2015 we expect currencies to have a greater impact in the first half of the year.
On the other hand we're also seeing positive trends in commodities around the world.
It is important to remember that the full impact of lower commodity costs take time to fully flow through our financial results due to hedges in contracts but we're already beginning to see the impact of these prices softening and expect favorability to build throughout the year.
Additionally we expect to benefit from our acquisitions and restructuring activities to ramp up throughout the year and we expect positive benefits from our previously announced price increases.
Given the external factors effecting the first half we would expect to deliver approximately 40% of our ongoing earnings in the first half and approximately 60% in the second half which is slightly different than our historical trends.
Based on the actions we've discussed today we are reaffirming our full year guidance for 2015 as showed on Slide 27.
Relative to the guidance we provided at our investor day in December we're expecting revenue to be towards the lower end of the $24 billion to $25 billion range given recent changes in currency.
In spite of that change our full year ingoing business EPS guidance remains in the range of $14 to $15 which represents approximately 25% improvement versus our 2014 results.
We will have slightly stronger margin performance than previously expected due to price mix actions we have taken as well as higher productivity from recent commodity cost trends.
Higher margin will offset the lower revenue guidance.
We expect to report full year GAAP net earnings per diluted share of 10.75 to 11.75 which includes acquisition related integration cost.
Our expectations for 2015 free cash flow remained at $700 million to $800 million.
Turing to Slide 28 you will see how we intend to deliver approximately 7.5% to 7.8% ongoing business EBIT margin with another balanced approach towards margin expansion.
And walking from our 2014 ongoing business EBIT margin of 6.9% to our 2015 goals we expect to realize a full point margin in price mix driven by our previously announced cost base price increases innovative new product launches and growth beyond our core business.
Benefits from our cost and capacity reduction actions are expected to contributed 0.5 point.
For the full year of 2015 cost productivity is expected to deliver full point of margin expansion.
We expect material cost to continue improving and are encouraged by recent downward trends.
Our planned increases in marketing technology and product investments are expected to reduce margins by about 0.5 points.
And the impact of currency is expected to reduce margins by 1.0 point to 1.5 point.
These overall impact result in the range that previously communicated.
Our acquisition integration activities remain on track as you can see on slide 29.
For 2015 restructuring related expenses contribute to be estimated at $300 million which is primarily related to the acquisition integration activities.
Benefits of approximately $175 million are primarily driven from acquisition synergies and benefits associated with previously announced restructuring actions.
As we deliver on our 2015 objectives to continue to grow revenue improved margins and deliver yet another year of record ongoing earnings we have solid priorities to deploy the cash generated from our business as shown on slide 30.
These priorities are consistent with what we've previously communicated.
In summary given our profitable growth trends increased investment capacity and strong balance sheet we continue to balance funding for all aspects of the business to ensure the best long term value creation for our shareholders.
I'll turn it back over to Jeff.
Let me turn to slide 32 while I'm going to summarize our comments.
Again we're focused on successfully integrating our businesses in Europe in China and fully leveraging our new expanded global platform to create shareholder value.
We will continue in ramping up investments in our brands and bring a very strong line-up of new innovative products to the marketplace both in our core business and in our adjacent business.
In total we’re very well positioned to capitalize on improving demand trends which are coming -- which are uneven around the world today but we’re seeing good demand trends in the U.S.
and some volatile trends in some of the emerging market.
We’ll continue drive benefit that’s through our ongoing cost productivity programs and despite continuing headwinds that Larry outlined like currency devaluations we do remain confident in our ability to grow revenues expand margins and deliver another record year of ongoing operating performance for the year.
And then lastly again strategically we’re very excited about our opportunities to grow geographically with our -- not only with our acquisitions but with our expanded presence in emerging markets.
Our North America region is poise from off a year of growth we never had a stronger innovative product lineup as we have today coming in the market and these things together give us lot of confidence on building revenue and margin expansion.
And finally we’re not taking our eye off to the day operations of our business we have many opportunities to fully leverage our fix cost structure and drive ongoing productivity around the world to both ensure our competitive position but also to improve our margins.
So we believe these multiple paths for profitable growth provide us with a great opportunity to really move and achieve our next level of strong operating performance and this will deliver significant value to our shareholders.
So with that I’d like to conclude our formal remarks and open it up for question-and-answers.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Megan McGrath.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just wanted to ask a little bit about your expectations for end market demand.
You've altered them slightly in three of the major regions.
So if you could just talk us through what's changed in your outlook since mid-December when you gave the initial guidance for those three regions? Yes.
Well let me ask Marc and Mike to discuss their regional expectations.
Megan its Marc Bitzer.
Let me first talk about North America as you know we basically -- that guidance for 2015 has not changed since our December meeting which basically means we remain bullish exactly to the same level as move mid-December.
As you may recall that we issued the market demand guidance early 2014 initially it looked like the market would know its 6% and they actually ended up doing and we have a same reason to be bullish for 2015.
Our housing demands we believe both on existing homes sales will probably rise to somewhere around 5.2 million new housing probably 1.1 plus or minus and these are still the most important demand growth drivers in the industry.
However I would still expect some seasonality in the growth rates.
So that’s a full year guidance but it doesn’t mean that you would exactly every quarter every promotion period.
But for Europe we’ve gotten a little bit more positive.
As you may recall in December we basically expect flat and we right now see a flat to plus 2% but big uncertainty in Europe very frankly is Russia demand.
Russia was a main reason by we were on zero in December and right now it's actually about some reasonably stable in December and so far Q1.
But still but big uncertainty.
The balance of the other markets was certainly being slightly positive.
Megan let me comment for Latin America and Asia because we did change both the outlooks for both regions.
Latin America really focus on Brazil and what we’ve seen since the time that we’ve spoke is continued currency fluctuation and it's had an impact on the overall market there and we’ve also seen the government come out with some new economic measures which has created a little uncertainty in the consumer base.
So our view right now as we go in we were flat before we said flat to minus three.
We think that the first quarter is going to be down because we’re lapping against a very high first quarter last year.
We think the second quarter will be up because if you remember last year it was down significantly and then the balance of the year may trend flat to slightly down.
So all-in-all we made that slight adjustment just given some of the volatility in the region.
For Asia what we’ve seen is China changed growth a little bit I mean now it's flat we were seeing it be slightly up before and that’s just due to kind of the same overall global economic situation with currencies and so on India continues to be on track we think that market will continue to be positive.
So the change that we made for that region was from two to five to one to three and we think that’s appropriate with what we see today.
The only thing Megan is if you take the pluses and minuses of the industry changes in total industry demand just given the weight of where the changes are is about what we said and during Investor Day.
Great.
That's really helpful.
Thank you.
And then a quick follow-up Marc on North America.
In terms of the pricing that environment that you mentioned that happened in the fourth quarter could you give us a little bit more color in terms of did you -- were you forced to follow at all with the pricing or did you hold your pricing stable? I'm not sure how much of the sort of implied negative pricing in the quarter was just due to the currency mix shift if we do the calculation there.
So Megan let me by enlarge repeat what I said in the earlier script.
Yes we've seen a more aggressive from both environment by certain imports as we stated in the past and we stayed course on Q4 we did not follow our promotions all the way down because it distorts value for our shareholders for our brands and so in a certain way it had a negative volume impact related to market opportunities in Q4.
Our next question is from Denise Chai.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
I had a couple questions.
So again on North America can you detail for us the product transition costs in the quarter and how much more we should expect in 2015? Denise its Marc Bitzer again as I'm going to give a track it in.
First of all let me repeat also what I said earlier yes we were not surprised by our Q4 margins but that doesn’t mean that we were satisfied with our Q4 margins.
With Q4 margins were down year-over-year and they were not in line with how we delivered the first three quarters and our guidance for next year.
Ultimately beyond the promotion as I just referred to we have the three major kind of issues which we have to deal with.
One was the product transition two was the extremely unfavorable currency in Canada Mexico and hopefully we're pretty certain actually the last quarter of higher material cost.
It's difficult to exactly give a number behind these three issues but I would ballpark them all each of them around $20 million each.
Now in terms of your question of timing of course it's difficult to exactly predict what's going to happen in currency as we're going forward the currency part is still big for us.
Canada has gotten a lot worse even in Q1 but product transitions are largely behind us but they still play a factor in Q1 and material costs we're pretty certain are behind us.
Okay.
Okay got it.
And then a question on Europe.
How much did weakness in Eastern Europe benefit Indesit -- or kind of your overall margins? And can you give us a sense maybe of growth rates in Western versus Eastern Europe? And just directionally how are margins in the existing Whirlpool business in Europe compared to Indesit if you just kind of separate those directionally.
Denise it's a lot of question in one question.
Let me try to just kind of simplify a little bit so first of all Indesit historically have been more exposed to Eastern Europe and the Whirlpool standalone business so of course a weak market demand hurts.
What hurts even more is rapid currency move to the extent which we've seen.
I would say the existing Indesit team but also the Whirlpool team did a fabulous job in moving fast as cost based price increases which basically reflect the currency.
So if we want to say so the pain which we could have experienced if we wouldn't have responded in Q4 is a lot less but still that has been painful.
And if you look at historical margins and I mean yesterday we commented on this one the current margin in the Russia are not comparable to historical margins or leverage market could be in the long-term.
Just last on a separate subject.
In terms of hedges in contracts what do you actually hedge and when are those contracts rolling off? Denise we're kind of on a rolling forecast from a hedging perspective we continuously hedge some currencies more than others but normally we can hedge anywhere from today through 36 months out depending on the currency so it's hard to give you an answer as far as when they roll out what we try to do is to take volatility out from swings in currencies overtime I think we've done that successfully over the last few years what hurts us is we see sudden changes in currency it takes us a little bit longer to over kind of offset that but in general we do follow a hedging policy across most currencies and it's a rolling forecast type of currency so… And Denise I'd add the same what raw materials commodity base metals and things like that we hedge it's where our philosophy is to take a rolling 12 month to 18 month view that we're always hedging if you will it's not to guess the market it's to smooth out the volatility so when base metals are going up we're generally under the curve for a while when they're going down we maybe above the curve but on average we smooth it out.
And if I heard you right you said that you expect to see a 50 million benefit from raw materials this year? That's correct.
Yes that's everything including the base metal hedges.
Our next question is from David MacGregor.
Your line is open.
Just on Europe stronger performance there than I had anticipated.
I'm wondering you've done such a nice job at the analyst meeting of quantifying the whole synergy expectation over the next few years.
Is there any way you could quantify for us the extent to which synergies were realized in Europe in the fourth quarter? David its Marc first of all I'm pleased to hear what we gave positive price but let me also reiterate a little bit what I implied in the earlier comments.
Europe generally has the stronger seasonality in Q4 than for example North America that is on our base business coming from essentially two elements that's because you have more small domestic business which is very profitable for us and you have much higher microwave sale which is also very good business for us.
On the Indesit side Russia more than any of market is a strong Q4 market so you put the three things together you should always expect that the Q4 revenues and operating margins in Europe are generally higher than full-year average so don’t extrapolate too much from the Q4.
In addition very frankly it’s been mix bag of ins and outs in Q4 which is normal to such acquisition.
Having said that we’re very pleased with the ramp up over for transaction integration and the synergies and we’re at this point very confident that we fully delivered or over delivered the synergies which were presented at Investors Day.
David I would just add and I think we’ve talked about in the Q&amp;A as well.
Those synergies as are on track it’s moving very well but the net effect is probably you’d see kind of the full synergy delivery Q3 onward because again we’re still forming new organization and doing all the all things in Q1 and they’re actually very little if any synergies in Q4.
That was my sense but it’s nice to hear you said.
Where do you think your capacity utilization rate is today in Europe? David again that’s very blended average and it all depends on how many shifts you run in different factoring but I would say particular the acquisition we have ample capacity to fill this factory.
I mean it’s clearly below over 75% if that’s your question.
Okay that’s helpful and then is there any way you can quantify the organic growth in Europe in the quarter? David again it’s Marc it’s a mixed bag because of the acquisition but let’s say both businesses had underlying organic growth.
Okay and then last question just CapEx guide to 8 to 8.50 for next year is at the new normal going forward? David certainly for now we feel good about that number that includes absolutely the acquisitions which have their own capital spending plan.
We do have a lot of product innovation and we do have a fair amount of capital supporting the integration of these things so what we’ve guided to is 3.5% of revenues is a good benchmark could be little higher could be little lower but and of course on a much larger revenue base that gets you to 850 million.
Our next question is from Ken Zener.
Your line is open.
Europe.
The 6%.
The last time you were there was 2007 and then the preceding year so it was 2007.
So it was actually third quarter was your higher seasonality.
Understanding the comments around 4Q relative to your fiscal year guidance in Europe could you talk to how we might think about the European countries being a little different in terms of the retail rhythm if you will? So in 4Q in the US you highlighted discounting.
Does that happen as prevalently in some European countries? And when are you going to be having -- when is it normal to have the discussions with the retailers relative to your floor space in the retail market there? Okay Ken it’s Marc Bitzer.
Without revealing too much competitive information here but this could probably take an hour so let me just by I would say in general you have in Europe because of the counter fragmentation probably less of a holiday impacted promotion impacted the more steady business in general terms despite trends like U.K.
has started Black Friday there and that kind of stuff.
But in general you don’t have the spike over promotion holiday.
I would say you have a very competitive environment period its overall land and you got to work through the mix and the other tools to generate margins.
So I think the strongest countries you now see in Europe is still Russia which had very strong Q4 basis that’s long historically.
The other markets are reasonably balanced and if you see the seasonality is more driven by our product mix which sometime the strong and weak in certain quarters.
Okay.
And then kind of the housekeeping question.
But just what's your interest expense? And then your guidance for Asia obviously includes two distinct regions China and India.
I apologize if I missed you breaking the growth rates for those two regions out.
Thank you.
Yes Ken interest figure around 190 and we said growth rate China would be around flat and India will be flat couple of point but may 3% to 5%.
Our next question is from.
Sam Darkatsh.
Your line is open.
Two or three just clarification questions.
So the EMEA EBIT in the fourth quarter was considerably better than what you were suggesting it would be in the analyst day slides at least by my math by $75 million or so of EBIT or so.
I'm trying to understand what the positive variance was due to.
Was it because that you were much quicker with the price increases than perhaps you were giving yourselves credit for back in mid-December? Or is it the synergies? Or what was the specific derivation of that magnitude of a positive variance? Sam it’s Marc.
As we note at Investor Day we gave a revise guidance which took all aspects into account but from what I recall we did near-term break it down in Q4 guidance by region.
Having said that the synergies to Jeff’s earlier point are small factor in the Europe Q4 numbers.
There has been a good underlying business and a couple of our factors playing to it but it was a strong underlying performance which frankly we were proud of because typically these kind of acquisitions you would expect more disruption more volatility and that we mentioned on both sides of equation very strongly.
And the other thing Marc did share today for the full year we expect 4% to 5% operating margins that will ramp up quarter-by-quarter for two regions; one just for a simple most to seasonality I mean Marc talked about that before but the large volume quarter is Q1 and then Q2 Q3 Q4.
So Q4 should in normal circumstances always be the best quarter and then on top of that for this year our synergies which are significant will largely be ramping up and kind of that run rate level begin in Q2 onward.
So I mean we’re happy with Q4 I mean I hope these levels of EBIT in future are norm not an exception as you pointed out.
And that’s really on the path but Q4 should always be the highest margin quarter.
And then I will just add Q4 relative to competition our margin in Europe was pretty much in line with what we elsewhere.
And just a follow-up question or two here if I could.
Hefei on a pro forma basis was that business up down and to what extent? The Hefei business was slightly up and their own if you were the standalone business in Q4 we expect that to continue.
As you know with the Whirlpool business we were going through we had destocking through the year we then started in the November timeframe to floor new products and so we expect that business to start ramping up in the course of 2015.
And final question if I could.
Larry do you have what the Company-wide gross margin would have been excluding a lot of the deal-related costs that were broken out in the adjustments? Margins gross margins would have been Sam probably about a point higher than what you're seeing on a GAAP basis and that’s because you got BEFIEX credits and some purchase price accounting adjustments and COGS.
It would have been 1 point higher year on year or a point higher than the reported number? It would have been a point higher year-over-year.
Our next question is from Eric Bosshard.
Your line is open.
Two questions.
First of all in terms of North America I think your units were up 6 in an AHAM up 8.5 markets.
I know those are slightly apples versus oranges.
Could you talk about how you view your market share performance in 4Q and how you think that performs in 2015? First of all as you pointed out and implied already in your question as you know the public AHAM numbers are not comparable to the unit numbers which we compare.
One is because it's 36 37 and we also report a lot of other units in there.
Second of all in our unit number we also have Canada and Mexico and in particular these markets with such strong currency moves also a lot of volume volatility.
So it's not fully comparable.
Having said that I would say our market-share first of all on a full year base was 80% on Q4 base in product which we talked about stable to slightly down and the slightly down came largely from our kind of lower participation of holiday sales due to reasons which I mentioned before.
And of course where these promotional holidays where we talked about we do use share in those periods of time where we choose not to participate because of value destroying actions by certain competitor.
And then typically when those promotional periods go out we come right back up and that’s our full expectation just like it's been for the last three years.
And as much as you have visibility into 2015 into the promotional intensity and plans from your customers and perception on your competitors how do you think that plays out in 2015? And then also again how do you think your market share performance behaves in 2015 after you framed how 2014 played out? Of course difficult to impossible to predict the promotional environment because it's driven by many factors.
Our market-share objectives are not lose market-share clearly.
They have to come through stronger and better products not for more aggressive promotions.
Okay.
And then secondly you indicated 4Q I think perhaps Larry or one of you that 4Q was a little bit better than you had expected.
Can you just give a little more detail of what performed better than you had thought in 4Q? Eric actually we were slightly a little bit better I did mention the tax rate base business came in relatively closing to what we expect is just slightly better.
And our European business as better.
And sorry.
To follow on to that the Europe comments was this the underlying market is better? That the acquired business is performing better in terms of its market share or your existing business' market share? What explains the Europe do you believe? I think it's a combination of all the factors but March was slightly better than we anticipated but I would only say slightly our internal performance again on both sides of the business was actually very strong.
And our next question from Michael Rehaut.
Your line is open.
First question just to clarify some earlier comments.
Marc when you mentioned that roughly speaking in the fourth quarter North America the product transition costs the currency and the raw materials each was about a $20 million impact.
How does that affect the movement into first quarter? You said you expect raw materials to subside but would the product transition costs and the currency continue or intensify? Michael let me just repeat what I said earlier so I do expect the currency issues to still be with us if you follow the Canadian dollar and the Mexican peso it's gotten worse now we -- what helps on the mitigating side we have previously announced price increase in Canada for January but of course now the currency moved again so in a certain way it's the same issue still around us the raw materials we do not expect in Q1 and the transition will be to a slightly lesser extent but it's not going to be completely behind us.
Okay.
So would that result then I know you don't like to go into quarterly margin guidance by region but given the range of -- that you gave for the full year for North America would that result in perhaps 1Q being a little bit below the low end of that range and improving throughout the year? Is that a right way to think about it at least? Michael its Larry let me just speak in general for the company as far as margin progression goes and we talked to currency being a headwind more in the first half and the second half we talked about synergy building productivity building the segment have so what you're going to see is margins expand more in the second half than they do in the first half.
And I would just add onto that it's again there's a lot of changes in the environment that's not new.
We tried to frame the comments around currency that currency happens immediately and we adjust we adjust through cost we adjust through pricing and so on in some markets it ultimately has an impact on demand so we have to adjust for demand so kind of my view or the view I would take today is that the currency stuff that happens already happened so it's having an immediate impact.
The material cost have been coming down so that's as Larry pointed out is a partial offset.
Our productivity will ramp up throughout the year as it normally does.
And then we have taken in some cases due pricing based on these currency moves and then lastly in our case our synergies largely ramp up Q2 to Q4 so not all these things happen at the same time there is some volatility on our results because of that but I think the view Larry gave about full year guidance confirmed 40-60 split is our best view of it right now.
No that's perfect.
Understandable.
Again just trying to understand the context quarter to quarter.
So thanks for that.
Second question just on North America overall in terms of 2015 you mentioned the 4% to 6% on the industry.
Given if the promotional activity just for argument's sake was similar in 2015 versus 2014 would you expect your volumes to be in line above or below that number? Michael its Marc again so let me first of all clarify and this is not specific comment to '15 just a general comment typically promotion activity doesn’t increase the full year demand contrary to what many people may believe it just pulls demand forward in a certain time period.
So having more or less promotion intensity will not drive more annual consumer impact.
So [Mike] the dynamic of a market comes largely from overall strong consumer confidence existing home sales which is one of the strongest drivers in our appliance demand and new home.
And then I would only add in the promotional activity as March said it probably it did worsen and the areas where we've seen dampening in the past is the areas we're continuously in.
Well that's again to everybody this appears to be the last question that we had.
Thank you very much for joining us today and we look forward to updating you at our next earnings call.
So thank you very much.
This does conclude today's program.
You may now disconnect at any time.
Good morning and welcome to Whirlpool Corporation's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Senior Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Chris Conley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Whirlpool Corporation first quarter 2015 conference call.
Joining me today are Jeff Fettig our Chairman and CEO; Vice Chairman Mike Todman and Marc Bitzer; as well as Larry Venturelli our Chief Financial Officer.
Our remarks today track with a presentation available on the Investors section of our Web site at whirlpoolcorp.com.
Before we begin let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements to assist you in understanding Whirlpool Corporation's future expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially from these statements due to many factors discussed in our latest 10-K and our other periodic reports as well as on Slide 1 and in the appendix of this presentation.
Turning to Slide 2 we want to remind you that today's presentation includes non-GAAP measures.
We believe these measures are important indicators of our operations as they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to results from our ongoing business operations.
We also think that the adjusted measures will provide you with a better baseline for analyzing trends in our ongoing business operations.
Listeners are directed to the appendix section of our presentation beginning on Slide 41 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP items to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
With that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Well good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
In the press release this morning we reported strong revenue growth in our earnings performance for the first quarter.
To-date our integration activities in Europe and China are on track and we continue to see substantial value creation opportunities in these regions through synergies and growth.
During the quarter we did see significant movements in global currencies and a very negative demand environment in Brazil.
But our larger global operating platform helped to offset most of these issues and we deployed a series of new actions which are expected to deliver margin expansion in the second half of the year.
We will review these actions in detail during our regional reviews.
Turning to Slide 5 in the quarter you can see we delivered strong revenue growth.
Excluding the impact of currency our revenues were up 23% on a year-over-year basis.
As expected our free cash flow was lower compared to last year primarily due to seasonal working capital requirements related to our acquisitions.
Our ongoing business EPS came in at $2.14 a share compared to $2.20 last year.
Again primarily due to the negative impact of currency devaluations and lower demand in Brazil.
As a result we are revising our 2015 earnings guidance which we show on Slide 6.
Our revised GAAP to EPS is down $9 to $10 per share.
Our ongoing business operations EPS is down $12 to $13 a share and free cash flow is approximately $700 million positive for the full year.
On Slide 7 you can see the combined impact of these environmental changes that had on our business and is expected to be approximately $2 per share.
Within this environment we expect our first half results to deliver earnings per share that are approximately flat on a year-over-year basis.
And as a result the new actions implemented or in the process of being implemented we expect to deliver margin run rates in the second half consistent with our prior expectations for the year which represents a substantial level of margin expansion from where that is today.
As shown on Slide 8 we feel good about the progress we're making in our long-term growth strategy which remains on track.
We continue to see multiple opportunities for both growth and margin expansion over the medium and long-term falling under three prime categories; the first is our geographical expansion again our integration plans are fully on track and already producing positive results.
Additionally while emerging market is currently slow or weak we still remain very confident.
There's a tremendous mid to long-term opportunity in these emerging markets and this along with what we see as recovering demand in both the U.S.
and in many European markets.
The second area we're focused on is product and brand innovation.
We continue to accelerate our investments in the relevant technologies and innovative products which benefit our end customers.
This will ensure our future growth rate and margin expansion.
And third and very importantly we will continue to leverage and right-size our fixed cost structure with volume growth which will lead to further margin expansion.
So in summary our strategy remains on track.
We will continue to deliver results and enable us to overcome short-term environmental challenges as we are seeing today.
Turning to Slide 9 you can see that our business priorities for 2015 are fully in line with these growth and margin opportunities and remain largely unchanged for the year.
Our integration and activities in Europe and China will continue and are on track.
We have taken additional cost-based pricing and very strong cost productivity actions around the globe.
We do except our investments in new products and growth beyond the core to continue to drive both revenue growth and margin expansion.
And as a result we expect to expand operating margins significantly during the second half of the year.
So at this point in time I'll move on to our regional details and I'd like to turn it over to Marc Bitzer.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on Slide 11 by reviewing North America's performance in the first quarter starting with the top line.
Net sales of $2.3 billion for North America were up slightly compared to the prior year period and up 2.1% excluding currency.
This is now the eighth consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue growth.
Our first quarter ongoing business operating profit was $230 million compared to $228 million in the first quarter of 2014.
In summary in an essentially flat market we delivered strong margins in the first quarter which confirms that our product transition and availability issues are largely behind us.
Turning to Slide 12 our expectations for North America in 2015 remain unchanged.
With major product transitions now largely behind us we expect to leverage with launches and drive margin expansion.
From a broader U.S.
market perspective we believe the industry is on track for a multiyear recovery as evidenced by a recent increase in the existing home sales.
In the first quarter the industry was up 1% and we expect the full year industry to be up around 4%.
2015 did start out a little soft industry-wide largely driven by destocking at several major retailers a somewhat slow start to the housing markets and what we believe to be a delay not a reduction in the ramp up of consumer spending.
In Canada specifically where we have a significant currency issue we do expect that our recently announced cost-based price increases will help offset the margin impact of currency devaluation.
As we speak we are launching a new commercially inspired suite of KitchenAid appliances.
On Slide 13 you can see our award-winning five-door refrigerator that features storage for easy access for family favorites five customizable temperature zones and a platinum interior option.
I will now talk to the first quarter result for our Europe Middle East and Africa region as shown in Slide 15.
Sales were $1.3 billion compared to $0.7 billion in the prior year.
While a significant portion of its growth was driven by the integration it is important to note that we had underlying growth in both the legacy Whirlpool and Indesit businesses.
Ongoing operating profit was $35 million with ongoing operating margin at 2.7% compared to $7 million and 1% in the first quarter 2014.
During the first quarter positive volume ongoing cost productivity price mix and accelerated integration activities more than offset the significant unfavorable impact of currency and lower demand in Russia delivering another quarter of expanded operating profit and margin.
As we look towards the full year 2015 on Slide 16 our integration activities remain firmly on track and we continue to drive margin improvement in the region.
For 2015 we expect the continuation of the Eurozone recovery and industry to be flat to up 2% for the year.
Demand continues to be strong in Western Europe which is more than offsetting weaknesses we're seeing in Eastern Europe most prominently in Russia and the Ukraine.
We have announced cost-based price increase in both Eastern European countries to offset the impacts of currency and we are well positioned for growth and demand return.
In summary we remain focused on accelerating integration activities ongoing cost productivity programs and growth throughout new product launches both within and beyond the core.
On Slide 17 you can see our all-in-one countertop cook processor as an example of innovation outside of our core appliance categories.
It is designed to simplify the lives of our consumers functionality to prepare entire meals and featuring six automatic cooking modes that guide consumers step-by-step for recipes for delicious culinary preparations.
Now I would like to turn it over to Mike.
Thanks Marc.
Let me begin with our Latin America results on Slide 19.
Sales for the quarter were $899 million down 24% from a very strong baseline in the same prior year period primarily due to unfavorable currency and reduced demand in Brazil.
Excluding the impact of currency sales were down 11% from the prior year period.
Our ongoing business operating profit for the quarter totaled $59 million or 6.6% of sales compared to $109 million and 9.2% in the prior year period driven largely by the factors mentioned earlier.
On Slide 20 we want to provide additional detail on the macroeconomic picture in Brazil.
Throughout the first quarter the demand environment in Brazil weakened rapidly.
Inflation unemployment and consumer confidence had a significant impact on demand which was down 16% in the first quarter.
While these macro changes are significant it appears that the economic crisis has been initiated by the political crisis in the country which is having a strong impact on consumer sentiment in the short-term.
We continue to believe that Brazil's long-term attractiveness remains intact.
As shown on Slide 21 if you look at the last 14 years of GDP Brazil has shown a strong capacity to rebound from downturns and we believe that the country as a whole has a positive long-term outlook.
On Slide 22 we have taken strong and decisive actions to offset this rapid demand decline and currency impacts.
We have executed and announced new cost-based price increases that become effective early in the second quarter.
Additionally we deployed strong actions to reduce our fixed cost which included a significant workforce reduction and production shutdowns to control our inventory levels.
It is important to note that while we have taken these strong actions we will not see their full impact until the second half of 2015 at which time we expect to deliver operating margins in line with our prior expectations.
We have adjusted our 2015 industry guidance for Latin America to down 10% to 12%.
In summary we expect to expand margins in the second half similar to our prior expectations while we continue to operate in a more challenging environment in Brazil.
Turning to Slide 23 we launched a new Brastemp laundry product with an easy visibility glass lid in multiple color options that is designed for top performance in cleaning bedding and larger items.
Now turning to our first quarter results in the Asia region which are shown on Slide 25; net sales of $378 million more than doubled from the prior period primarily due to the integration.
Consistent with our expectations we are on track with the integration process and have delivered ongoing operating profit of $26 million compared to $5 million in the prior year period.
Ongoing operating margins were 6.9% up significantly compared to the prior year period behind continued strength in India and our expanded China growth platform.
Turning to Slide 26 we continue to see favorable macro trends in India and relatively neutral macro trends in China.
Our industry guidance for Asia as a whole is up 1% to 3%.
In summary for 2015 we expect significant growth from our integration activities continued strength in India and as a result strong margins from our larger growth platform.
On Slide 27 you can see our new entry-level refrigeration product for India.
It features rapid cooling and ice making technology which has been well received by consumers.
Now I would like to turn it over to Larry.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Let me start with our first quarter results on Slides 29 and 30 and then I'll discuss guidance for the year.
As Jeff mentioned we had record net sales and ongoing operating profit during the quarter.
Our revenues were $4.8 billion compared to $4.4 billion last year an 11% increase.
The business performed well given the rapid changes in global currencies and a weak demand environment in Brazil.
Currencies which have weakened double digits versus the dollar year-over-year impacted our revenues by over $500 million EBIT margins by just under 2 points and earnings by approximately $0.85 per share.
Despite significant currency headwinds and a weaker-than-expected demand environment the company delivered solid ongoing earnings of $2.14 per share down slightly from the $2.20 last year.
The diversification of our regional profit contribution and the combination of positive price and mix cost and capacity reductions productivity and benefits from our acquisitions offset most of the headwinds we've discussed.
You'll note that interest and sundry increased $30 million compared to the prior year and this is primarily due to fluctuations in currency.
Additionally as shown on Slide 30 on a GAAP basis our effective tax rate for the first quarter was lower than our full year guidance however the ongoing rate was 24% and we expect our full year tax rate to between 22% and 25% for both GAAP and ongoing earnings.
Turning to Slide 31 relative to the guidance we provided in our last earnings call we are revising ongoing business EPS guidance to $12 to $13.
This will represent a 10% improvement in earnings compared to last year.
Our expectations for 2015 free cash flow are now approximately $700 million.
On Slide 32 let me make some additional comments regarding the challenging macroeconomic environment and actions we have taken to mitigate the impact.
Our revenues year-over-year will be reduced by approximately $2.5 billion due to currency and we are now expecting a $500 million year-over-year impact to EBIT which is $150 million higher than our previous guidance.
This includes transactional currency of approximately $330 million which impacts our margins and translational currency of $170 million.
Additionally we expect approximately a $100 million impact due to the recent weakened demand environment in Brazil.
Combined these two factors lower our current earnings by approximately $2 per share from our previous guidance.
We view this earnings reduction as concentrated in the first half of this year.
We expect to fully offset these headwinds and return to the second half run rates we previously expected.
As Mike and Marc discussed we have taken further accelerated actions through cost-based pricing cost productivity and integration synergies to mitigate these impacts.
When combined with the actions we've previously communicated we now expect to deliver $700 million in EBIT improvement on a year-over-year basis to offset these headwinds and deliver 10% earnings improvement.
We have demonstrated over the past few years that we can offset significant cost headwinds and improve our margins in earnings.
On Slide 33 let me make some additional comments regarding regional operating margins and our earnings expectations.
Given the fact that significant volatility in currency and demand have an immediate impact on our results and the cost and pricing actions we're taking billed throughout the year we would expect first half margins and earnings to be relatively flat with the prior year.
We do expect strong second half margins and earnings given the normal earning seasonality of our business and the benefits from actions we have taken.
As we previously discussed the normal seasonality in our industry and demand environment drives a ramp up of both volume and productivity as we progress throughout the year.
So the second half is typically more positive than the first half.
In North America and Europe we expect second half demand growth and the continued price mix benefit from prior year product transitions and our new product launches.
Previously announced price increases as well as a ramp up in acquisition integration of synergies in Europe will also improve second half results.
Both of these regions remain on track.
For Latin America with recently announced price increases fixed cost reductions second half product launches and actions to lower inventories to current demand levels behind us we expect to restore margins to our prior expectations in the second half.
We expect that Brazil's demand weakness and currency impact to result in lower margin expectations for the region on a full year basis.
Asia is on track and we expect continued integration progress from our acquisitions in China as well as continued strong performance from India.
In summary we expect margins to accelerate in the second half as our previously announced cost-based pricing ongoing cost productivity and price mix benefits ramp up to more than offset the negative currency impact.
On Slide 34 you can see additional detail and how we intend to deliver ongoing business EBIT margin expansion with a very balanced approach.
On Slide 35 you can see an update on the progress of our integration activities in Europe and Asia.
We incurred 33 million in restructuring expense and $30 million in benefit during the first quarter which was consistent with our expectations.
For the full year our acquisition and restructuring activities are on track but we expect 300 million in expense and 175 million in benefits consistent with our earlier guidance.
Benefits will be more weighted towards the second half of the year.
As we continue to grow revenues and improve margins we have solid priorities to deploy the cash generated from our business as shown on Slide 36.
Recently we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend by 20% reflecting our confidence in the continued strength of our ongoing business.
In summary given our profitable growth trends increased investment capacity and strong balance sheet we continue to balance funding for all aspects of our business to ensure the best long-term value creation for our shareholders.
Now I'd like to turn it back over to Jeff.
Thanks Larry.
Let me sum up by saying we certainly are addressing the short-term challenges we see throughout our business.
But as I mentioned earlier the priorities that we have for the business have not changed.
We're focused on successfully integrating our European and Asia acquisitions which are on track.
Additionally we do expect revenue margin growth from our innovating new product launches that are in the market today.
I feel good that we deployed very specific actions to address the current challenges and position us well to expand margins in the second half of the year.
Our long-term growth strategy certainly remains on track and we're making great progress towards this as we do continue to see multiple pass to profitable growth throughout our business.
And we certainly haven't changed our mid to longer term value creation expectations.
Overall these growth plans do provide us with an outstanding opportunity to continue delivering significant shareholder value.
So with that I'd like to conclude our formal remarks and open this up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we can take our first question from David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning everyone.
Good morning David.
Good morning David.
I guess just to talk about Latin America for a second; that will certainly be a focal point today but I wanted to see if you could address to the extent you can the discrepancy between your competitors that announced 2% organic growth in Latin America this quarter and your negative 11.
And I realize you are up against a pretty tough call from a year ago but can you help us understand that? Maybe was Embraco a factor there or maybe to the extent you can add some color it would be helpful.
Yes David it's Mike Todman.
I'll talk about our business in Latin America and what we saw in the marketplace.
And we saw a market that it was dramatically down and significantly from where we thought it was going to be when we entered the year.
And what we saw was that volatility and really throughout the first quarter.
So what did we do? We took immediate action to lower our production levels to make sure that we were producing in line with kind of where the market demand was.
What we also saw was that some of the trade partners had too much inventory and so started to de-stock so that had an impact on overall volumes.
So I could only comment on kind of where our volume was and what the impacts were.
And those were largely the significant impacts for us.
David this is Jeff.
I would add to that.
As we've talked in the past we subdivide our Latin America business into four elements.
Our global compressor business which I would say is on track.
Obviously currency translation affects everything but in terms of the fundamental business it's on track.
What we call our LAR [[ph] international appliance business all of our appliance business in the 30 some odd countries outside of Brazil is off to a good start.
Our extended expand categories within Brazil continue to grow very rapidly.
So the heart of our challenges really has to do with the core appliance business in Brazil.
And there the issues -- Mike explained it very clearly the market was down over 20%.
We certainly have the currency the valuation of almost over 40% and then we still have the issue with inflation which is relatively high in that country.
So I think we understand the dynamics of our business very well.
A big part of our business is the core appliance business.
That's what's under pressure right now.
I feel good about the actions we're taking to get it.
At least the margins stabilized.
Demand is going to be whatever demand is.
And we think that's a nearer term problem but will be with us most of the year.
Okay.
Just a follow-up question would be with respect to the guidance of down 10 to 12 for the industry for the year in the second quarter the comps starts to get decidedly easier here just as you're up against the World Cup from a year ago and then the Presidential Election in the second half.
It just seems like you go from a very difficult comp situation 1Q to a much easier comp situation hesitant to use the word "Easier " but easier nonetheless over the balance of the year.
And you took your guidance down substantially.
Do you expect that still those procedure [ph] comps still have kind of a 10% challenge as the year goes on or how does the cadence play out? Yes.
David it's Mike again.
What we're seeing right now is still lower demand even starting in the second quarter.
So we expect demand even though those comps are a little bit easier to continue to be down in the second quarter.
And then we see a relative improvement although still negative but down in the third and the fourth quarter.
And that's exactly what we're experiencing.
Remember a lot of these comps and demand is based on consumer sentiment.
And as we said there are some issues in Brazil in the overall political environment which are impacting which won't necessarily resolve just in the short-term.
So that's how we have come to the 12%.
We still see second quarter being challenging and slight improvement in the third and fourth quarter.
Okay thank you very much.
And we can take our next question from Megan McGrath with MKM Partners LLC.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks.
Obviously a lot of questions; just one of the moving parts here could you just give us a sense for when we're watching things going forward as to when you lowered your guidance what date you took the FX at? Things are moving pretty quickly so just so we can sort of track going forward.
Was it this week? Was it last week at the end of the quarter? Yes.
Megan obviously the currency has moved a lot.
So we're using recent rates that we're seeing in the currency markets around the world.
As we did during the last call and as we've seen currencies move we've taken actions to improve our business in specific areas like price increases and cost reduction because of the fact that currencies are relatively immediate.
The benefits that we get from these actions will build over time but essentially to answer your question we used very -- the rates we're using are very consistent with what we've seen over the last -- in the very near term.
Okay great.
And then a follow-up on your guidance could you give us an update on what you're assuming from commodities? Because we have seen still [ph] prices also continue to decline.
Yes I would say Megan this is Larry.
I would say our guidance last time was about $50 million of deflation.
We're seeing -- probably at current rates we're probably closer to 100 million but I would say currencies especially in some of the emerging markets around the world obviously are having a negative impact and reducing the benefits of that.
But certainly what we're seeing trend-wise material costs have been favorable.
I would expect that the benefit from that will be more back-half weighted than first-half weighted.
Megan I would just add to that.
You talked about the moving parts if you really step back and look at our global business; we spoke the two negatives which are globally currency but really a handful of currencies in particular.
The Euro the Reais the Canadian dollar and the Ruble are probably our four most impacted currencies.
And they have moved significantly.
In the other we talked about demand and the only place where we're largely different in demand that we thought is Brazil.
Those are the two negatives.
On the positive side we feel really good about the rate of integration that's going on to-date.
That's very positive.
The new product transitions that we had some challenges with in the last couple quarters is behind us and now we actually have the benefits of having those in the marketplace.
And for the full year our ability both through our cost productivity our synergies and our integration benefits our cost position will improve radically as we go throughout the year.
So as we look at it it's really have we adjusted the business to the current range of currencies and demand and I think the actions we've taken to-date are putting in place in the second quarter we have and that's why we feel good about our ability to get our margin run rates at an accelerated level in the second half of the year.
Great thank you.
I'll let others get on.
Thanks.
And we can take our next question from Sam Darkatsh with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Jeff Larry Marc Mike.
How are you? Hi Sam.
Hi Sam.
A couple of quick questions; raising prices in Latin America in the face of demand deterioration obviously there is some benefit to how appliances are sold from a pricing standpoint in the country but how concerned are you about elasticity as demand perhaps making things more challenging for the consumer down there? That would be my first question.
Okay Sam.
It's Mike.
The reality is we've raised prices every time we need to based on the inflation and the environment.
And right now we're focused on expanding our margins getting our margins back to the level that they need to be.
The fact of the matter is there is a level of demand that stays [ph] there and we're relatively confident in the demand outlook that we've given in that.
Having our price increase won't have a material impact on that.
Sam I would add to that.
If you look at our price increases they're at or below the overall level of inflation one.
Two we're taking just as harder [ph] actions on the cost productivity side so ensuring that our business is competitive every day.
And then the third thing is we don't believe in selling products at a loss and so restoring the margins is critical in -- I think all the things going on in Brazil recently politically et cetera has shaken consumer confidence.
That has more of an impact than absolute pricing levels particularly when you consider virtually everything in Brazil is bought on installments and it's a cost per month.
Therefore that's usually not the factor.
Next question and I recognize this is patently unfair because your visibility four months ago is going to be different than now and I'm going to be asking you a question about four years from now but regarding your 2018 expectations you are expecting second half 2015 stabilization.
Should we reset the base year lower now and then assumes similar growth rates from there or is that $22 to $24 goal still hold without making it a stretch goal? Sam the way I'd answer that everything we talked about at our Investor Day in our strategy remains intact.
We have a different environment in a couple of dimensions right now.
We do view this as -- certainly we've been through ups and downs in Brazil demand before.
And we think -- we still believe over the mid to long-term we're going to like the grow rate in Brazil.
Currencies you adjust and we are adjusting very rapidly.
So as you said may be it wasn't clear enough but there's nothing that has happened to date that would cause us or give us pause as to the targets that we outlined for investors last December.
And final question Larry if you could help.
Do you have the breakdown of the organic units' growth or you change year-on-year in Euro and Asia? As Marc I think mentioned our units both the acquisition was up in units and the base business is up in units.
And then I think in the [indiscernible] side we're up slightly.
So in line with the industry in both counts? At least in line or better.
I would say Europe was better China the same yes.
Okay thank you.
You're welcome.
You can take our next question from Denise Chai with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Okay thank you.
Could we get some more color on the $100 million benefit from raw materials? What commodities do you see benefiting you the most? And is it your expectation that you'll be able to keep all of this benefit or that it will be partly computed [ph] away? Yes Denise.
I think the whole basket of commodities are -- have been stable to lower whether it's -- again it depends by market because and again I don't want to get into complexity here but currency outside U.S.
dollar denominated is -- does have a negative impact.
So for example globally in U.S.
dollars we've seen commodity prices go down.
That does not mean they go down in local currencies.
In fact in Brazil we have again that 40% evaluation we have a huge increase in local currencies but at a macro level globally steel is a little bit lower year-over-year hydrocarbons are lower therefore you see plastic prices and although we hedge all the pure commodities the commodity trend has being going down.
We are probably above that trend right now because of hedges but over time it just smoothes it out.
So a $100 million plus or minus is not a lot in the global business.
I would just say this is the first time in absolute dollars that we might actually have lower raw material costs in over a decade.
But on the other hand we have a lot more than that in currency impacts as it relates to materials.
So I don't see it as a big game changer either way other than it won't be a drag against our productivity numbers this year.
Okay got it.
And just a follow-on on that; can you give an update then on the North American competitive situation? I'm just wondering if the strong dollar would be encouraging more discounting by your foreign competitors.
But I guess from what you are saying but U.S.
-- in local currency commodity cost has also gone up.
Denise it's Marc and I'm trying to answer your question.
First of all on the cost base in North America.
On the cost base in North America yes it is true.
We're starting to see raw material tailwinds.
As you may recall Q4 and we said that that would be the last quarter where we had headwinds and now kind of it's slightly turned.
So we have some modest benefit in the raw material which we expect to build and that added with cost productivity actions helps us improving our cost situation.
I presume your second question was relatively more to a promotion environment.
As you know we're kind of -- we're a little bit somewhat concerned about the heightened level of promoting in Q4.
I will take Q1 was what I would describe more back to normal levels.
Okay got it.
Thank you.
And just last one you reduced your CapEx guidance.
Are there any projects getting pushed out to 2016 or what's changed there? No you shouldn't think that any changes -- I mean just again on currency in U.S.
dollars we're going to have lower CapEx with the same projects.
Okay understood.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ken Zener with KeyBanc Capital.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Ken.
Good morning Ken.
Might have more than two questions for you; so when you guys talk about the first half '15 I believe you were talking about flat EBIT.
Can you attribute how much of that would be to Brazil? If it's most of it and then what is that 10% unit decline in Brazil relative to where you were kind of before in volume imply for LATAM margins sequentially.
I think this -– the strength you're talking about in the second half specifically is related to LATAM.
You guys had previously a 9% to 11% margin range.
So I'm just trying to make sure we're all on the same page for 2Q sequential which seems to be nine to 11 on the back-half.
Yes Ken let me try to answer this a little bit differently.
I think I understand what your question is it's more half one versus half two related.
We said we'd be relatively flat in the first half of the year and we did a little under $5.00 a share in the first half of last year so that'd imply we do over a $7.50 in the second half of this year.
There's probably about five factors that you need to take into consideration first just the normal seasonality in the business.
Historically results are high -- we have higher volume in margins in the second half than we do the first half.
If you would go back and look at the last three years that's probably about $1.50 a share.
We talk a lot about the acquisition synergies those will be higher in the back half of the year.
That will give you in order of magnitude probably $0.50.
Net cost productivity combination of the cost take out material cost trends we're seeing will be better in the second half as I mention and could get a dollar out of that.
And then the enacted price increases and improved mix will be more weighted towards the second half based on actions we've taken.
There will be a slight offset to that.
When we just do the year-over-year currency impact will be higher in the second half than it was in the first half.
That's just that the business is larger has higher volume in the second half.
But that's really the bridge that gets you between the first half and the second half.
And Ken this is Jeff.
I would add you talk about Latin America I mean the challenges that we saw in Q1 which is currency which is lower demand and I would add inflation that's been persistent.
Also causes us to reduce our production schedules which will continue on into the second quarter.
So you should expect the one part of the region in the world that's negative in terms of EBIT year-over-year -- in Q1 it is Latin America and in Q2 it will be Latin America.
Everywhere else it is either modestly improving or improving a lot.
And so what we're really seeing is that those trends that you saw in Q1 will be similar in Q2.
But in Q3 onward we expect our margins to albeit at a lower revenue level will expand significantly in Latin America.
You'll see continued improvement with more cost productivity in North America -- well in all parts of the world.
And in the markets where we have which are Europe and China where we have integration activities those too will ramp up.
Q2 is going to look a lot like Q1 and you ought to see an acceleration because of those factors in Q3 and Q4.
So I do Larry and Jeff I do appreciate the details.
I'm just still trying to I guess hone you in on that sequential margin.
Because when you guys talk about a strong second half in LATAM last quarter you guys provided regional EBIT guidance which was very useful.
And if you could update that I think everybody would appreciate that but it seems… I would say the goals that we talked -- Because we're not going to give quarterly guidance on regional EBIT but I would say this though the goals we articulate haven't changed.
The one that has been the delayed is Latin America.
And you saw we were at 6.6% so we went down before we go back up but in terms of where we want to get to that has not changed.
I would say everything else we expect to be tacking to those goals in second half of the year.
Right okay.
Taking a different perspective and given the majority of the regions are doing well as LATAM.
Other companies have elected to use their balance sheet so you guys have a free cash flow that you're talking about should improve overtime.
Can you talk about your willingness to use your balance sheet to perhaps offset some of these currency headwinds whether it be by buybacks or what some of the constraints might be and you're thinking that way whereas many other companies have elected to do that.
Yes Ken look I think Mike mentioned the several actions that we've taken in Latin America to get our run rates back on track in the second half of the year again this is timing between half one and half two.
We've –- as a company if you look over the last several years we continue to fund the business through capital spending.
That's averaged 3.5% a year.
We do have a targeted debt to EBITDA ratio of approximately one to one and a half times.
You have to remember today is the highest debt to EBITDA that we've had over the last several years and that's primarily due to the acquisitions that we took on last year and we fully expect to be back to pre-acquisition metrics by the end of 2016.
That has not changed.
We've also over the last several years repurchased over a billion dollars of stock.
We've provided a dividend in the range of 25% to 30% of our earnings annually.
I just mentioned we just increased that and then opportunistically we've taken advantage of M&amp;A.
I think all those actions combined have been reflected in the company's stock price.
So we're deploying the operational actions that we can do to return the business and Latin America back to the margins that we previously expected.
We will from time-to-time repurchase stock as well as balance the other opportunities we have.
So our capital allocation decisions haven't changed.
I think we're doing a very well-balanced approach to it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We can take our next question from Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
The Europe margin performance in the quarter and the outlook through the year it sounds like the incremental cost saves and synergies you're talking about it sounds like you're affirming the 175 million same number that you've been at and so the two questions one how do you think about the progress of Europe margins 1Q relative to 4Q and how the margins should behave through the year.
And then secondly as you're generating cost saves your confidence in netting those cost saves to the bottom line as we work our way through the year.
And Eric it's Marc.
Let me try to answer your question.
First of all the previous full year margin which we gave as a guidance from regional perspective was 4% to 5% for Europe and 2.7% in Q1.
So to answer it in short we're fully confident that we are within that margin range.
You've got to bear in mind first of all in Europe the seasonality in Europe is probably stronger than in other regions.
So the Q1 is typically -- and if you go back the last ten years I think nine of ten years it's by far the lowest margin quarter.
Two as we previously indicated a lot of the integration synergy is build throughout the year so things which we -- and actions which we either took over or announced in Q1 that starts to build in terms of synergies throughout the year.
So take the normal seasonality add the typical synergy build up throughout the year we're very confident that we are exactly within that margin range.
And then within that the second part of the question the experience and -- again I understand you're on the business for six months or so now but the confidence that you have in netting the saves to the bottom line I'll ask differently how is the competitive environment there the pricing environment how do you feel and what are you observing within that? Is that any different now that you've combined the two businesses? Eric on that point I mean keep in mind the synergies are unique to us.
So it's not industry-wide cost benefits.
These are unique to us.
So yes we have a high degree of confidence that we can take them to the bottom line.
And we've been pleased with the market combined market or performances they're running at or above the market in terms of volume.
Our price mix is stable and so we fully expect them to follow the bottom line.
All right.
And then if I could just follow-up on Latin America; two questions there.
One what were your units in Brazil down relative to the market that sounds like was down 16 to 20 is the -- is the first question and secondly the inventory situation in Brazil yours and the channel did you exit the first quarterback at normal or is that progress expected to be made in 2Q? Yes answer to the first question Eric; we were slightly down more than the industry so we did loose a little bit of market share in the first quarter.
But we felt a bit about where we were in the run rates.
And the answer to the second quarter is we expect some continued inventory reduction in the second quarter.
We think we will be more normalized as we get through the second quarter going into the second half.
Okay thank you.
And our next question will come from Michael Rehaut with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
First question I was hoping to go back to Slide 32 where you quantify on a full year basis the currency and Brazil demand and the actions taken and I wanted to try and look at that slide if possible thinking about it through just the incremental change from today versus three months ago when you gave your guidance originally.
And so I believe you said earlier Larry that there is an incremental 150 negative impact between today and three months ago from the currency.
I'd presume that Brazil demand environment worsening that 100 million is also fully incremental.
And if you could just confirm that and then on actions taken as you list the different categories there what is just purely incremental versus three months ago? I know you talked a lot about cost-based price actions but if you could kind of walk through the different buckets there? Yes.
Michael versus February when providing guidance we made a $2 adjustment; $1.50 of that is strictly due to currency primarily the Real and the Euro.
And the balance is related to the Brazil economic environment.
If you would go back and look at our expectations for the year from a price mix perspective last time we said I believe we get about a point of price mix now we are seeing a point to point and a half.
We take that additional pricing since the last call in Brazil Canada and Eastern Europe.
So that explains that.
Cost and capacity reduction essentially remains unchanged from what we said for a full year basis.
Ongoing cost productivity material costs we are seeing benefits from material costs versus last year about a point.
But remember we are taking out a lot of production to meet demand.
So we are still saying we will get at least a point there.
Marketing and technology is essentially the same.
And the big mover as I mentioned before was currency.
Now we are seeing -- I think we said 1 to 1.5 times last time and now we are seeing 1.5 to 2 times.
So I guess taking it in another way with essentially your expectation that second half is unchanged from previous expectation does that effectively -- in kind of reference to an earlier question if you expect all these actions to come in fully and get you back to your prior 2H '15 expectations it would seem then that excluding any incremental again currency or demand type shocks that would kind of get you back on track for those longer term expectations is that fair to say? That's fair to say especially the action we have taken in the first quarter and what we are doing here in the second quarter positions us well to get back on the run rates for the second half of the year than we expected originally.
Okay.
And just lastly on this topic it seems like most of the offsetting actions are the additional pricing initiatives but there is also little bit of cost out in Brazil as well.
To offset that impact is it really kind of like two-thirds additional cost-based pricing and one-third cost reductions or how to think about that mix? Yes Michael I would say we are pushing hard on both but I mean the bigger factor is price.
But I would say we are redoubling our efforts on cost productivity in places like -- well really everywhere but particularly places like Brazil including significant structural changes.
We are not going to wait for the demand environment to get better although we believe it will.
We are reducing fixed costs headcount et cetera et cetera et cetera very very aggressively because we learned from being in the Brazilian market for 70 years that the faster you adjust to the new environment the better position you are even in recovery and that's what we are doing.
All right.
And just to make sure also the acquisition synergies and the acquisition contributions expected this year that has not changed at all in other words there is no acceleration in any of those synergies or benefits? Hey Michael it's Marc.
Let me try to answer this for the European part of the acquisition.
The acquisition as I said before is firmly on track.
Actually if you would peel back and look in Euro-denominated synergies we're even ahead of our original scheduling timeline.
But of course because of Euro/dollar translation you lose some of that okay.
Net-net even dollars are synergies and synergy expectations are fully on track.
It's a complicated and complex undertaking but we are fully in control and on track.
And Michael I would say that in Asia this China integration we're fully on track with the expectations that we gave at the beginning of the year.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Jay McCanless with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
First question I had when you look at the $12 to $13 on ongoing EPS guidance can you discuss what type of interest rate environment you factored into that guidance and also what type of currency impact you factored into it? Yes Jay from an interest rate perspective we are largely -- our portfolio right now is fixed.
We have a small maturity in May.
So I would say that what you're seeing from our run rate in Q1 should be fairly close and indicative of what you will see for the full year.
As I mentioned before from a currency perspective the way we set our guidance is recent rates that we've experienced in the key markets; Euro Real Canadian dollar Russian currency.
So hopefully that answers your question.
Okay.
The second question I had if you exclude the one-time gain from the curtailment it looks like SG&amp;A deleveraged by about 100 bips year-over-year is that how we should expect deleverage going forward to the rest of the year? Yes.
We did have a curtailment gain first one that was not in our ongoing results and that is in our GAAP results.
The majority of that would have hit in the gross margin line.
But from an SG&amp;A perspective apples-to-apples if you adjust out pension settlements acquisition-related transition expenses this year and last year we were really around 9.8% run rate compared to what we're reporting today about 10.3.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's Q&amp;A session.
I'll now turn the program back over to Mr.
Jeff Fettig for closing remarks.
Well again thank you all for joining today.
We appreciate your questions and we look forward to talking to you next time.
Thank you again.
And this does conclude today's program.
Thanks for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
And have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to Whirlpool Corporation’s Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Senior Director of Investor Relations Chris Conley.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Whirlpool Corporation’s second quarter 2015 conference call.
Joining me today are Jeff Fettig our Chairman and CEO; Vice Chairmen Mike Todman and Marc Bitzer; as well as Larry Venturelli our Chief Financial Officer.
Our remarks today track with the presentation available on the Investors section of our website at whirlpoolcorp.com.
Before we begin let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements to assist you in understanding Whirlpool Corporation’s future expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially from those statements due to many factors discussed in our latest 10-K and our other periodic reports as well as on slide one and in the appendix of this presentation.
Turning to slide two we want to remind you that today’s presentation includes non-GAAP measures.
We believe these measures are important indicators of our operations as they exclude items that may not be indicative of or unrelated to results from our ongoing business operations.
We also think the adjusted measures will provide you with a better baseline for analyzing trends in our ongoing business operations.
Listeners are directed to the appendix section of our presentation beginning on Slide 37 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP items to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
With that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Well good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
In our press release this morning we reported record revenue and ongoing earnings for the second quarter.
As expected the global economic environment continue to be challenging with currency volatility and weak emerging market demand primarily in three core countries for us in emerging markets.
First in Brazil we saw a decline in demand of about 12% Russia was down about 25% and China was down about 3%.
At the same time our integration activities in Europe and Asia are progressing well and we will continue to accelerate these integrations as we move into the second part of the year.
As we outlined in April we’ve deployed actions to deliver second half margin expansion and those plans are on track to deliver record revenue and ongoing earnings performance for the year.
Our ability to deliver these results in this environment reflects the strength and focus of our execution and the benefits of our expanded global operating platform.
I’ll now turn to Slide 5 to briefly review the financials.
You’ll see here that we had strong revenue growth year-over-year in the quarter.
Excluding the impact of currency our revenues were up 25% versus last year.
Our ongoing business earnings per diluted share were a second quarter record at $2.70 compared to $2.62 last year and this was primarily driven by strong earnings growth in Europe and Asia.
Our free cash flow was slightly higher compared to last year primarily due to the stronger – strong working capital management partially offset by the impact of our acquisitions.
On Slide 6ix you see that we’re reaffirming our ongoing business EPS guidance with ongoing EPS forecast for the year of $12 to $13 a share and we expect to generate approximately $700 million of free cash flow.
Turing to Slide 7 you can see that our business properties which we’ve shared previously for the year are unchanged and we believe that are fully aligned where we see growth and margin opportunities.
There’s three core areas where we’re driving opportunities for the year.
Certainly our integration activities in Europe and China as I mentioned are on track and we expect to accelerate those integrations in the second half.
We have deployed cost-based pricing and inflationary and currency markets and we continue to focus on cost productivity programs around the globe.
Combined we believe these will expand our margins in the second half of the year.
We do also expect our investments in new products and growth beyond our core business – our core appliance business to continue to drive both revenue growth and margin expansion.
Finally I just reference Slide 8 where we outline what we’ve showed you before our long-term growth strategy which we believe remains on track.
We continue to leverage multiple opportunities for growth in our market expansion which fall under three main pillars: geographical expansion product and brand innovation and leveraging our right-size fixed cost structure.
So in summary we are making good progress so far this year and we expect to deliver record sales and ongoing earnings in 2015.
So with this I will turn over to Marc Bitzer.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on Slide 10 by reviewing North America’s performance in the second quarter starting with the top line.
Net sales of $2.7 billion for North America were up slightly compared to the prior-year period and nearly 1.5% excluding currency.
Our second quarter ongoing business operating profit was a record $290 million or 10.8% of sales compared to $285 million in the second quarter of 2014.
We continue to expand our operating margins behind the strong ongoing cost productivity and fixed cost leverage.
While we’re pleased with our second quarter margins we did experience a few challenges.
One Canadian currency continued to be unfavorable with roughly 14% year-over-year devaluation and we have already executed cost base price increase to offset that impact.
Two due to very strong demand for our newly launched products including our new KitchenAid line we experienced some short-term capacity constraints.
We have made several investments to improve our capacity for these new products and expect to meet demand in the second half.
Three we also adjusted our production levels to appropriately match inventory risk demand.
These challenges had an unfavorable impact of approximately $40 million on our second quarter margins.
As you might recall on our fourth quarter conference call we provided operating margin expectations of 10.5% to 11.5%.
After a strong first half we are already at the lower end of that range.
And turning to Slide 11 we layout our second half actions to continue improving margins.
We believe the industry is on track to grow by 4% consistent with our expectations for multi-year recovery.
If our new products fully floored we expect to continue leveraging consumer demands to drive improved price mix and volume growth in the second half.
And our previously announced Canadian cost-based pricing actions are designed to offset the impact of currency.
And we will also continue to deploy a strong cost productivity plans.
We expect these actions combined with our normal seasonal improvement to deliver growth and margin improvement in the second half of 2015 consistent with our prior expectations.
And on Slide 12 we highlight our new suite of black stainless steel KitchenAid appliances.
These products are designed to bring professional-style appliances without a commercial stainless steel look and has been exceptionally well received in the U.S.
I would now share the second quarter results for our Europe Middle East and Africa region as shown on Slide 14.
Sales were $1.3 billion compared to $0.7 billion in the prior year driven by the integration and continued recovery in Western European demand.
Ongoing operating profit was the second quarter record of $56 million with ongoing operating margins of 4.2% compared to $2 million and 0.2% in the second quarter 2014.
During the second quarter positive volume ongoing cost productivity and the planned acceleration of integration activities more than offset the unfavorable impact of currency and lower demand in Eastern Europe delivering yet another quarter of significantly expanded operating profit and margin.
On Slide 15 as we look towards the full-year 2015 we expect our integration activities to continue building in the back half.
For 2015 we expect the industry to be up 0% to 2% although it is currently trending at a higher-end of the range as Western European demand recovery is more than offsetting the weakness in Eastern Europe most prominently in Russia and in Ukraine.
The benefits from previously announced cost-based price increases are designed to offset the impact of currency.
And in summary we remain focused on accelerating integration activities ongoing cost productivity programs and growth from new product launches both within and beyond the core.
And on Slide 16 as an example of product leadership in the region you can see our new Whirlpool branded refrigerator that is designed to optimize food preservation by reducing freezer burn by up to 50%.
And now I’d like to turn it over to Mike.
Thanks Marc.
Let me begin with our Latin America results on Slide 18.
Compared to what we shared on our first quarter call the macro environment in Brazil has weakened further and currency has remained significantly devalued.
As a result sales for the quarter were $854 million down approximately 22% from the same period of prior year period.
Excluding the impact of currency sales increased 1% from the prior year period.
Our ongoing business operating profit for the quarter totaled $36 million or 4.2% of sales compared to $87 million and 8% in the prior year period.
These results included an unfavorable operating profit impact of $25 million due to currency and another $10 million due to reduced production levels.
These impacts were partially offset by previously announced cost-based pricing the benefits of cost and capacity reduction initiatives and strong results in our appliance business outside of Brazil.
On Slide 19 we layout our actions to improve margins and return to run rates more reflective of our expectations.
We now expect 2015 industry for Latin America to be down approximately 15% reflecting the further deterioration in Brazil.
As mentioned earlier currency continues to be a challenge for us as we expect the reais to U.S.
dollar exchange rate to be between $3 and $3.25.
As discussed on our previous call we have executed strong and decisive actions to offset the impact of the demand decline and currency devaluation.
These actions include previously announced cost-based pricing new product launches and fixed cost reductions.
And in the weaker demand environment we are taking additional actions targeting fixed cost reduction to improve margins.
Additionally in the first half we rebalanced production levels to match reduced demand and we will continue to monitor and adjust if needed for the remainder of the year.
It is important to note that we expect to see the impact of all these actions beginning in the second half of 2015 at which time we expect to deliver improved operating margins compared to the first half.
As we implement these actions we expect margins to strengthen in the third quarter and then to grow significantly in the fourth quarter.
While we will likely be lower than our long-term margin expectations for Latin America we believe we have the right actions to address the operating environment and improve the trajectory of the margin profile.
Turning to Slide 20 as a demonstration of our global leadership in the laundry category we launched a Whirlpool laundry product with the smart load system that reduces water consumption in addition to delivering best-in-class capacity and superior washing results.
Now turning to our second quarter results in the Asia region which are shown on Slide 22.
Net sales were $381 million in comparison to $211 million in the prior year period primarily driven by the impact of the integration.
We have delivered a second quarter record ongoing profit of $31 million compared to $4 million in the prior year period.
Ongoing operating margins were 8.1% up significantly compared to the prior year period behind the record performance in India and the expanded benefits of integration activities in our expanded China business.
Turning to Slide 23 we continue to see favorable macro trends in India and negative macro trends in China.
Our industry guidance for Asia as a whole is flat.
In summary for 2015 we expect continued growth from our integration activities strength in India and as a result continued strong margin performance in the second half from our larger growth platform.
On Slide 24 you can see our Diqua front-load washing machine with a five-inch interactive display and a sensor that reduces vibration and noise.
This product is an example of how we continue to leverage products from the integration to accelerate our growth in China.
Now I would like to turn it over to Larry.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Let me start with our second quarter results on Slides 26 and 27.
As Jeff mentioned we have record net sales and ongoing operating profit during the quarter.
Our revenues were $5.2 billion compared to $4.7 billion last year an increase of over 11%.
Currencies impacted our revenues by nearly $650 million EBIT margins by 1.75 points and net earnings by approximately $1 per share.
The diversification of our regional profit contribution cost and capacity reductions ongoing cost productivity and benefits from our acquisitions more than offset the headwinds we’ve discussed.
And as expected the company delivered record ongoing earnings of $2.70 per share up from the $2.62 reported last year.
Allow me to make a few more detail points on our financial results.
First SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales on a GAAP basis increased by one 1 point approximately half of this increase is due to acquisition related costs with the remainder primarily associated with the deleveraging effect of a weaker demand environment in Brazil.
We do expect the SG&amp;A margins to return to prior year levels as we realized integration synergies additional fixed cost reductions and higher volumes in the second half.
Additionally the interest in sundry line improved year-over-year driven by a gain from a business investment in Brazil which had no impact on ongoing earnings.
Finally as shown on Slide 27 on a GAAP basis our effective tax rate for the second quarter was 32% and year-to-date is approximately 20%.
We continue to expect our full-year tax rate to be between 22% to 25% for both GAAP and ongoing earnings.
On Slide 28 we reaffirm our guidance for ongoing business earnings of $12 to $13 per share here as well as our expectations of approximately $700 million for free cash flow.
Turning to Slide 29 let me make some additional comments regarding expected earnings per share drivers for the second half as compared to the first half of 2015.
We expect strong second half earnings given the seasonal ramp up in demand of our business and the benefits from actions we have already taken.
In North America and Europe we expect demand growth to continue in addition to the price mix benefit from prior product transitions and our new product launches.
In the second half we expect our previously announced price increases will be in full effect in Canada Brazil and Russia.
As a result we expect $1 in earnings per share from price mix and another $1.50 from normal volume seasonality in the second half.
And additional $0.50 in earnings per share improvement is expected from ongoing cost productivity and positive raw material trends.
Our acquisition integrations are firmly on track in Europe and Asia and we expect an additional $0.50 in the second half as those synergies continue to ramp up throughout the year.
Finally we expect currency to drive a negative $0.75 in earnings per share impact primarily due to the translation effect of higher seasonal volume in the second half.
In summary we expect earnings per share to accelerate in the second half as our previously announced cost-based price actions ongoing cost productivity acquisition synergies and price mix benefits ramp up to more than offset the negative currency impact.
And as a result we expect to deliver between $7.16 to $8.16 per share in the second half from an EPS perspective.
On Slide 30 you can see an update on the progress of our restructuring and integration activities in both Europe and Asia.
We incurred $90 million in restructuring expense and $65 million in benefits during the first half which was consistent with our expectations.
For the full year consistent with prior guidance we expect $300 million in expense and $175 million in benefits.
And as previously discussed these benefits are more weighted towards the second half of the year.
As we continue to grow revenues and improve margins we have solid priorities to deploy the cash generated from our business as shown on Slide 31.
In the second quarter we continued our balanced approach to cash allocation.
In addition we raised our quarterly dividend by 20% and $0.90 per share and repurchased $50 million of stock through our share buyback program.
We also signed an agreement to purchase the American Dryer Corporation which closed in early July.
In summary given our profitable growth trends increased investment capacity and strong balance sheet we continue to balance funding for all aspects of our business to ensure the best long-term value creation for our shareholders.
Now I’d like to turn it back over to Jeff.
Thanks Larry.
Well just to sum up our priorities as you’ve heard throughout the call have remained focused on the successful integrations in both Europe and Asia and we have very strong operational plans to deliver the expanded margins we’ve discussed for the year.
These actions do include cost-based pricing and – already communicated the key markets as well as cost productivity programs.
Overall we expect these actions to move us towards the run rates more representative of what we outlined in our long-term planning.
Our strategy is progressing well and we continue to execute many actions on the three paths I described earlier in terms of providing opportunities for both revenue growth and margin expansion.
And we continue to believe that these plans provide us with an outstanding opportunity to not only have another record year this year but also to deliver significant shareholder returns.
So with that I’m going to close our formal remarks and I would like to open it up to Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll take our first question from Megan McGrath [MKM Partners].
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my call.
I wanted to start on North America – pardon me.
First on the demand environment it does look as if you may have underperformed the overall market a little bit in the quarter I know that there are some differences between your numbers and AHAM but was that part do you think of the inventory adjustment or was there sort of more aggressive pricing happening in the quarter that you decided not to participate in? Good morning Megan it’s Marc Bitzer.
I’m going to take your questions.
First of all let me just reiterate what I said in the couple of previous calls also.
First off all our reported unit shipments versus a T6 market share what you typically see were not fully comparable.
We sell more of just T6 major appliances.
We also report non-T6 major appliances as well as Canada and Mexico units.
We’ve also have extended – expand business made of many products like small domestic appliances.
So obviously you should focus on revenue growth and margins.
And as you know we delivered strong margins and we did deliver growth in Q2.
Admittedly that growth lacked industry and it’s important to keep a few issues and I will get to your question in mind with regard to our second quarter unit performance.
One we completed one of our larger product transitions in the middle of the quarter with a rollout of a KitchenAid suite of kitchen products which is a side note.
The last time we did that was 10 years ago.
So this is a very significant product launch.
Because we have been transitioned in large product lines for much of the past few quarters we haven’t yet seen the full capability of our new product lines in the market.
Obviously going forward we expect that the healthy growth from these new products in the markets.
Second during the quarter we saw stronger than expected demand for our recently launched new products while our production capacity is still ramping up.
We’ve made investments to improve our capacity and we also expect to see marked improvements in the third quarter and fourth quarter as a result.
And thirdly yes during the quarter we did see some moderately aggressive promotional activities from a few competitors which we choose not to participate in.
As an example we saw validate strong promotions in front-load laundry where we sustained dumping by certain imports or top-mount refrigerator and we’ve seen promotions in spite of cost increases due to the energy efficiency investments.
So whenever there is a promotional activity in the market we evaluate whether or not we can create value for our shareholders and rank [ph] by participating.
When we see value we participate.
When we don’t see value we do not participate.
Great thanks for that.
And I just wanted to clarify.
You mentioned in your opening remarks a $40 million negative impact was that just from the inventory adjustment or was that all three things that you mentioned the Canada the product transition and the inventory adjustment? Megan it’s Marc again.
It’s all three things combined.
All three things okay.
So and of course that is a rough estimate but that gives you a sense in terms of probably what our potential in Q2 was.
And can you give us any sort of breakdown of what was the biggest impact of that 40? No I mean we took it – first of all the 40 is already a rough estimate.
So it’s kind of difficult to really break it down to components.
But the inventory adjustment was a big part.
Back to you other question Megan just trying to bring our working capital levels in line before we saw as a top-line growth from the first half of the year.
Great thanks.
I’ll get back in the queue.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from David MacGregor [Longbow Research].
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Congratulations on some of this progress.
I wonder if you could talk a little bit about Latin America and specifically you’ve referenced pricing initiatives aimed at offsetting FX.
Can you talk about your level of confidence in the Latin American price increases for holding and what’s obviously difficult macro-environment? And then secondly if you could just maybe provide a little bit of color on your non-Brazilian Latin American business you said it was doing better if you can maybe give us a little more elaboration that would be helpful? Thanks.
Yes David it’s Mike Todman.
With respect to the price increase in Brazil in fact we held as well as holding our market share.
So we had sequentially flat market share and the pricing has held and that’s what’s allowed us frankly to offset the huge currency impact as well as the demand – the market demand environment but pricing is absolutely held.
In terms of the business outside of Latin America actually we saw a growth of around 12% in that business.
So that business continues to perform very well and we saw a significant as well improvement double-digit in operating profit from that business.
So we feel very good about that in the markets outside of Latin America.
David this is Jeff.
I just add to that in Brazil in particular when we say – there is really three impacts.
There is obviously the demand environment which is negative.
We have the devaluation year-over-year of about over 40% so you have the translation impact.
And when we talk about pricing offsetting currency it’s really offsetting the inflation consequences of the currency in the Whirlpool market.
Well we will not offset translation currency.
Okay thanks.
And then if I could squeeze one more in.
And just if you could comment on raw material deflation and you know your competitor adjusted their guidance for the year any thoughts on how you’re tracking versus that $100 million target is it possible that you might have ultimately outperformed that number in the second half? Yeah David it’s Larry.
As we stated in our prepared remarks we do expect a higher second half contribution of about $0.50 per share versus the first half from net productivity which would include materials versus our first half performance.
During our last call we did say that materials would be approximately $100 million lower this year and you know I’d say if current commodity rates hold it could be better than that.
We’ll see how the rates continue to evolve but we’re confident in $100 million and we are – if rates continue to improve we should potentially have some upside.
I would mention that it’s important to remind – remember that we are experiencing headwinds in currency which in currency outside of the U.S.
and from when you’re purchasing U.S.
denominated current commodities.
Okay.
And if you are to revise the raw material guidance would that also imply that you’d be revising your cost synergy guidance on Indesit given that a large portion of the early stages in the synergies are raw material related? David it’s Marc Bitzer I can take it.
No in a nutshell we wouldn’t because when in the particular – Indesit in particularly applies what Larry just outlined.
You still have a large amount of purchases in U.S.
dollar denominated.
So even while you may see increase in tailwind from a raw material side it’s pretty much eaten up by currency a bit because you buy still in the U.S.
dollars.
Got it thanks very much.
Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Denise Chai [Bank of America Merrill Lynch].
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Okay thank you.
Just going back to Latin America could you talk about how Brazil performed during the quarter? I mean even just over the course of the quarter do they continue to deteriorate and how are you looking at the back half? And could you be a little bit more specific in terms of where you expect second half margins to come in? Yeah.
Denise it’s Mike Todman.
During the quarter what we saw was just a continued deterioration of the overall market environment.
So and as you all know it’s kind of the political crisis that’s been led to an economic environment and challenging environment.
And the fact of the matter is what we’ve said is we’ve adjusted our outlook for the year to now minus 15% which implies that the second half will be slightly worse if you will than the first half.
The first half was about minus 14%.
So we continue to see a fairly challenging environment.
What we’ve done is obviously adjust our business to that particular market demand environment.
And so the actions that we’ve taken including the cost-based price increases which we’ve already announced but we’ve taken some significant fixed-cost reductions and are taking more just to make sure that we can improve the margins.
I’m not going to give you an exact margin number for the second half but we do expect for it to improve significantly substantially over the first half.
Denise I would – it’s Jeff.
I would add that I mean clear of the two variables are – right now are demanding currency and they moved quite radically.
Our assumption we’ve kind of laid down is that it’s pretty much stays the same as where we see it today.
But if you accept that I would just say as I said in my comments we expect over time our Latin American business to deliver double-digit operating profits.
We clearly didn’t with all this in the first half.
We won’t get there in the second half but we will be – if those assumptions stay the same we will have significant improvement from what we see in Q1 and Q2.
Okay got it.
Thank you.
And then just in North America – sorry you have the $40 million negative impact in the second quarter.
Will there be anymore of that to come in the third quarter from Canada’s upon transition et cetera? Hey Denise it’s Marc Bitzer.
I would say on the capacity constraints we’re slowly working our way out and again that’s just normal ramp up as we launched brand new product line.
And capacity in this case not only our own production capacity it’s also applied capacities.
So that’s been a normal ramp-up coupled with strong demand.
So I would say it’s largely behind us.
The inventory adjustment is completely behind us.
And the Canadian currency unfortunately not actually – this week it got worse.
So I think it would – it’s a mix bag but I would still characterize the majority of issues are behind us.
Okay got it.
And just really fast the value of the strong promotions that you saw in the second quarter have those continued as well? First of all Denise you’ve got to bear in mind that there’s certain promotion of [indiscernible] throughout the year and obviously July 4 is a key element.
So right now we’re kind of end of July or mid July there’s no active big promotion out there.
And it’s too early to speculate on what might be happening on Labor Day or on Black Friday.
But what I would like to emphasize is the promotions were not across all categories.
With our certain categories it is just our choice when to participate or not to participate.
Understood thank you.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Ken Zener [KeyBanc Capital Markets].
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Ken.
Good morning Ken.
I might have more than two questions.
So if we look at Brazil LatAm Jeff I think – and Mike please jump in.
1Q was down 20 the mark was down 15.
You said LatAm net overall you now expect to be down 15 versus 10 to 12.
But your comments seem to be that Brazil is getting weaker but with all that decline your 10 to 12 down to 15.
Is that all Brazil and what does that mean about the second half comp? Is it seems like you have kind of stabilized in May.
So did it get worse since May and how much was attributable to Brazil versus other markets? First question.
When we refer to the market data Ken we’re only talking about Brazil.
And I don’t know that it got worse it’s just been consistently bad kind of since the first quarter and it’s still bad.
We thought – when we talked in April that it might not be as bad in the second quarter given we’re comping against a weak prior year World Cup driven type of thing but it just stayed double-digit negative.
And so our view is – given the environment there right now is that we don’t see anything that’s going to change that in the very near-term.
Okay.
And again respectfully but it seems like it got worse from where you had kind of talked about and I think Mike you alluded to the margins being second half better than first half.
It’s specifically they are being a big ramp in 4Q versus 3Q where I think before the baseline was kind of at the back half would it be 9% to 10% margin? Could you give a little granularity there to the extent your pricing in the quarter was very strong at 2015 price mix versus your down volume 2014 so what’s causing that I guess delay in that margin expansion that what Mike referred to a significant in 4Q versus 3Q in the second half versus first half? Hey Ken.
I think – it’s Larry.
I think what’s important to remember is Brazil has had to take out a lot of production in the second quarter to meet that demand.
So while we are – well Mike is absolutely right.
We are getting the price mix of some very strong price mix.
You have two things happen.
One is productivity from taking inventories down and with the lower sales base right now you’re not getting as much leverage on SG&amp;A.
We expect that actions we’ve taken the right-size inventories are largely behind us now.
The price increases we’re taking are now in full effect which should continue into the second half of the year.
And then I think the combination of those in the fixed cost reductions we’re taking the exit rate for Latin America will exit at a nice strong margin.
And there is also the normal – even there depressed demand levels are still the normal seasonality.
Q4 is going to be a much higher volume although lower much higher volume than Q3 as Q3 is traditionally one of the weakest seasonal demands.
Okay.
And then how much does currency plays into not only in terms of how it translates but in terms of how you’re bringing right inventory to be then priced in.
It sounds like you gave a currency of 3 to 3.25 for the reais which would be I think it was kind of just above 3 when you guys reported in April.
So you kind of had another 4% or 5% deterioration there it seems in that currency does that play into that delay of EBIT? Well.
You know actually I mean it’s been all over the management I think even in April it’s 335.
335.
So we again we got two critical assumptions on the Latin America and Brazil forecast.
And that’s currency levels which we’re just saying that we’re basing our – of our discussion around where our planning is that it’s going to be between 3% and 3.25% and it’s kind of right in the middle now.
And the demand will remain basically negative by about 15% for the full year.
Now those can change but that’s what we base things on.
And that – and based on that environment we know our pricing actions and our cost actions taking into count those negatives will improve as we go throughout the year.
Okay.
And I guess this last one for North America.
Mark you referred to seasonality being stronger in the second half versus the first half.
Just looking at them out I mean there is a lot of different variance but it generally seems like you’re on the order of 100 basis points higher than the second half because that volume leverage.
Would that be a fair characterization? Thank you.
Yes Ken it’s Mark.
So first of all on the margins particularly as you recall we gave a guidance or expectation of 10.5% to 11.5% full year.
We finished Q2 with 10.8%.
We still firmly believe that we’re in that range on a full-year base which also tell us in the back half clearly margins on the average or to the high-end of that range.
Back to your point [indiscernible] versus certain amount of volume leverage in part of Q3 there is also certain seasonality in particular of a small domestic which lifts typically out Q4.
So it’s a combination of both volume leverage and the seasonality of certain products.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next we’ll move to [indiscernible].
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning and thanks for taking my question.
I wanted to inquire what was the organic volume growth in EMEA and the Asian businesses? And your margin performance was a lot better than we were expecting.
Now I was just wondering to ask you how much in the back half can we see further expansion? Bob it’s Marc.
I maybe start with the Europe piece.
So I’m glad to hear that the margins meet your expectation but it didn’t meet our expectation very exactly in the range of what we guided towards.
On a full year basis we guided European margins 4% to 5%.
We finished Q2 with 4.2% which is encouraging that we’re already in Q2 in that range.
We do see a further margin expansion and probably more to the high end of that range and that is largely coming from a build of synergies and restructuring activity.
There is some top line growth.
On your question about the top line growth I understand obviously in particular when you look at revenues it’s a little bit confusing that’s exchange rate.
In local currency i.e.
in euro we had a very healthy growth pretty much across all base business despite our now much stronger exposure in Eastern Europe.
Okay.
And Bob let me just talk about China.
We had a strong growth in China.
I think it was slightly over 80%.
If you look at both businesses combined in fact we picked up market share.
But it’s a lower demand environment in China than we had originally thought it was going to be.
So we’re on a minus 3% or so market.
So that obviously impacted the total volume but the growth was about in line with what we thought it was going to be.
In terms of our margins we were at 8.1% margins for Asia and we guided at the beginning of the year to be between 7% and 8%.
So we’re already at kind of top end of that range and that’s what we expect.
And there is some seasonality in emerging markets in Asia as well.
Second quarter – first and second quarter were good third quarter is usually weak and then fourth quarter it recovered.
So there is some seasonality effort.
To Mike’s point we’re pretty much in track in the way we want to be.
That’s good and I just want to get a little clarification on your North American volume outlook for 4% growth.
I was just hoping you could slice a little bit is the benefit by your implied guidance would point towards mid single-digit unit volume growth.
And is that a function of working through the inventory destocking or is that a sign of better organic demand and sustained consumer spending on appliances.
And if you get that if the second piece of that’s right it is better consumer demand would you expect to see firmer pricing.
Thanks a lot and good luck.
Bob it’s Marc Bitzer again let me just comment on the volume outlook.
As you may recall the very beginning of the year we guide towards 4% to 6% than we kind of – a little bit more [indiscernible] that’s what we technically still have today.
And that’s all based on Q1 being a little bit softer Q2 actually being in a reasonably healthy shape and if you basically do the math that would imply a back half volume growth in the market of 4% to 5% just to get to the math.
I would see – I would say first of all we have seen as of the second quarter pretty sustained healthy sell-in and also increasing sell-out trends.
So from today’s perspective we absolutely firm behind this one and we’re also firm behind our – what we said long-term positive prospect and the growth in the U.S.
markets.
Just to add to Marc’s comments if you just look at last three months AHAM would have probably been – we’ve been averaging about 4.5% growth.
Right.
And just if I could speak one if you capture that kind of growth do you think you’re going to get a pricing boost as well? No.
Bob we can’t really comment about what we think others are going to do.
We know what we’re doing.
We said very clearly we think we’ll amp up our growth rate with the full availability of our new products and that we fully expect to expand margins.
Got it thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Sam Darkatsh [Raymond James and Associates].
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good morning Jeff Larry Mike Marc.
How are you? Very good Sam.
Very good.
Two questions if I could.
One a clarification question Larry.
On Slide 42 I think you’re mentioning interest in sundry expense of $100 million for the year.
I think that was $150 million targeted last quarter what’s the reasoning behind that variance? The interest in sundry and the GAAP if you look at the GAAP financials that Sam I believe the favorable delta is the one-time gain this in GAAP results this on a business gain in Brazil investment – business investment in Brazil.
That’s in GAAP but not in ongoing results okay.
It’s just in GAAP.
Visibly we have right now on an ongoing basis for interest in sundry you’re probably looking at about $130 million for the year.
Make sure I’m understanding that because the non-GAAP and GAAP gets a little confusing for me.
So back half of the year what should interest in sundry be then on average? Yeah $52 million in the first half and figure is going to be $130 million for the full-year and then you got your second half.
Got you.
Thank you.
And then the other question and if I – and if you mentioned this Mike I apologize.
In Latin America I think you were trying to stabilize or rationalize retailer inventories in the quarter.
Where are you in that process where are retail inventories? Have they stabilized? And would you imagine that sell-it and sell-through look like each other in the second half? You know well Right now we did make the adjustments that I talked about in terms of overall demand.
We think we’re about where they need to be but it does all depends now on demand going forward.
So we made all the adjustments that we thought.
We think the inventories are more in line but all depending on demand in the second half we’ll see.
But right now we’re comfortable with where we are.
And we’re comfortable with where we are and assuming that the market is down by 15% but we’re comfortable.
If it changes radically either direction and obviously we’ll adjust.
Very helpful thank you gentlemen I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thanks Sam.
Thank you.
Next we’ll move to Michael Rehaut [JPMorgan Securities].
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thanks for taking my question.
Good morning everyone.
First question just going back to the capacity constraints in the quarter in North America with the product transitions.
Do you have any sense of what that might have impacted the top line volume in that segment? Okay.
Mike it’s Marc Bitzer again.
I would say on a total revenue base but it’s just rough estimate it’s a low single-digit percentages but very low.
It’s up 2% or 3% in that ballpark.
And that’s just because A KitchenAid suite launch it’s a fairly complex and taking it’s an entire kitchen set of products across multiple factories and you just need to get them all ready to ship it.
And two we’re still in the tail-end but now have a very tail-end of this huge laundering refrigeration change.
But as we know we’re pretty much started Q3 last year now we’re at the tail end and we have huge demands against certain products like Mimix where we’re just still ramping up our production capacity.
And the...
Okay.
So that 2% to 3% you’re referring that’s the impact on the North American segment.
That’s on the North American.
And again that’s roughly – that’s a rough indication.
And the mix – margin mix on that kind of product is substantially higher than the line average.
That’s helpful.
Also can you just describe quickly the acquisition you mentioned at the end of the prepared remarks I believe you said the American Dryer Corporation closed in July? Yes and Michael it’s Marc Bitzer.
Again the American Dryer Corporation is active in the professional commercial laundry segments.
It used to be a supplier of our so we know them for many years and it’s what we would describe as a nice tuck-in acquisition in our non-core business.
The reason why we like commercial laundry it’s inherently – it’s a healthy margin business cash accretive; it fits perfectly in our – grow beyond and then expand beyond the core business so it’s a nice tug-on.
We didn’t reveal or communicate because we have an agreement with the seller any purchase price.
Obviously it’s only a fraction of previous acquisition so it’s a much smaller one and then we now stopped our integration activities.
And just a sense of rough size of revenue and when you say healthy margins below or above the line average in North America? We should be don’t get into the details but American Dryer Corporation is kind of – I think it’s a largely published it’s a $40 million $50 million revenue business.
It’s not a huge one that’s why we call it a tug-in acquisition.
Perfect.
One quick last one if I could just the Asia margins.
I think you referred to continued expectations for continued healthy margins in the back half and you’ve already done pretty well in the first half.
Does that imply margins in the back half similar to the first half or should it drift higher perhaps with the acceleration of integration benefits.
No I think Michael you can expect – there’ll be plus or minus within the range that we gave 7% to 8% so similar we don’t see any expansion.
And as Jeff mentioned there’s seasonal business in Asia and third quarter is generally the lowest quarter in terms of volumes and sales and then in the fourth quarter it kind of ramps backup.
So the margins will be kind of commensurate with that.
Perfect thanks for your help.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Next we’ll move to Eric Bosshard [Cleveland Research Company].
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Two things first of all in North America I understand the difference between that AHAM and your units so curious on how you view your market share performance in the second quarter and also what your expectation is in the second half of the year? Eric its Marc Bitzer.
I mentioned before our top line revenue even though growing admittedly lack industry demands which also implies our market share just in Q2 is slightly down year-over-year.
That’s the fact.
Okay.
It is if you read in between my lines from my previous comment it’s not across all products.
This is certain categories where we saw high promotional activities or where we ran into some capacity constraints.
So is that our expectation going forward? No it’s not.
But we will also you know we basically add value principles as we’ve done in the past.
Okay.
And then the just to clarify a little bit the KitchenAid you’re missing 2% to 3% of revenue is a pretty material number what was that what you expected was there something that was different than expected that didn’t allow you to come through with the capacity? I would just love to understand that? A little bit more especially considering that you also were taking extended downtime it sounded like elsewhere in the business to balance inventories? Can you just help explain that a little bit? Yeah.
Eric it’s Marc again.
With 2% to 3% applied to KitchenAid and the capacity constraints on the laundry transition in particular.
So it’s – and a little bit to refrigeration but it’s largely laundry a little bit of front-door bottom mount and the kitchen.
So it’s all three businesses.
So it’s not KitchenAid on its own.
Particularly the laundry one that is very frankly it’s much stronger demand coupled with a shift of inventory back into the top loader and that’s where we’re just ramping up in terms of overall capacity.
On the KitchenAid to some extent that’s you could say as expected because you know the kitchen suite you don’t launch every year.
As I mentioned before we – the last KitchenAid suite was launched 10 years ago.
So this is a pretty complex undertaking the flooring and retailer.
So it’s just we knew it would drag a little bit for one quarter or two quarters and that’s just what it is.
The good news is the reception [indiscernible] very very strong.
Okay.
Your participation and promotions in the back half of the year is the discipline similar to 2Q such that you could still like the industry is that how we should be thinking about you strategically? Eric as you know we typically don’t comment on forward promotions et cetera but I think we – you see in the last three years to four years that we had a very good discipline around how we manage our margins how we expand our margins and how we drive certain promotions and you should expect that going forward.
Eric I just – I mean we feel pretty good pretty confident about our ability to win share through our new product innovations by creating demand for them as opposed to buying share and that’s a discipline.
Every quarter it may go up or down but we think there’s a value creating way to do it and that’s the way we’re doing it.
And then secondly in terms of Europe the margin progress there has been impressive.
And I know that there are announcements that come out over there about your capacity efforts there.
I’m just wondering if you could give us a little bit more color on what you’ve accomplished to date and what else is coming here in 2015? It sounds like there is an expectation there is more synergy benefit there but if you could expand a little bit on what you’re doing with the Indesit and what’s your core capacity in Europe? Eric it’s Marc Bitzer again.
So first of all yes the Indesit acquisition in Europe is a fairly complex and frankly of a challenging task.
But so far it’s – I mean it’s very very well on track.
It’s almost like a clock work which was not [indiscernible].
In terms of the major restructuring announcements so far in the press and in our filings we basically had referred to three ones one was kind of a high level SG&amp;A which is largely a leadership team; two what we call the Italian industrial plan which is a significant undertaking across our Italian factories in terms of capacity rationalization; and three was a relocation of an R&amp;D center and goes up in R&amp;D center in Germany.
So these were the three ones which we announced.
Throughout the first half there are obviously big elements and big blocks but we’re well on track and we signed these agreements already.
In a broader scheme of things we’re exactly consistent with the framework which we’ve made at the beginning of the year about the full-year restructuring expenses and benefits to expect that.
So I would say yes it’s fully on track but it also tells you just by the fact that we just signed some of these agreements now.
You obviously don’t yet see the benefits in the first half and you will only see a fraction of it in third quarter but now it’s starts building every quarter because we know it signs.
It’s now needs to be implemented and that just takes a certain time.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next we’ll move to Jay McCanless [Sterne Agee and Leach].
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thanks for taking my question.
I just wanted to ask on North America could you give us some color about what you’re expecting for the back half of the year in terms of currency translation effects or is that – and how much of that would you guys contemplate with the recent move higher in both the Mexican peso and the Canadian dollar? Jay it’s Marc Bitzer again.
As you pointed out obviously for North America it’s the peso and the Canadian dollar.
The peso has weakened yes but keep in mind we have a certain element of natural hedge because we also produce in Mexico.
So when the peso moves it hurts us on the top line it does not necessarily hurt us on the bottom line.
So margin-wise causes less concerns.
Top-line of course they will always hurt you okay.
And that’s also embedded in already our Q2 numbers.
Canadian dollars were different because we [indiscernible] from the U.S.
where year-over-year we have a dramatic change it’s fully impacting margin.
We had now a number of cost base price increases in Canada which we implemented.
But as you can tell also right now Canadian dollar went down weakened to $1.29 which is an average deterioration versus Q2.
So yes that impact will be with us throughout the back half both on top line which is fairly significant on the North America level but also on the bottom line as we are catching up on the cost base price increases.
But there will be a drag at today’s level in the second half.
Okay.
But it – but that potential drag you think is already captured in the guidance that you provided? Yes it should be....
Yes it’s embedded in the guidance....
And it should be less assuming the currency range that we have forecasted remains there as our pricing catches up with that.
Got it okay.
And then just I missed some of the comments you made about SG&amp;A.
Did you – I would assume that SG&amp;A should deleverage in the back half of the year.
Did you guys give specific targets for that? We said we will return to prior year levels for the full year.
So yes you’re right we will have leverage.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
Yes we have one more question.
Thank you.
We’ll take that question from David MacGregor [Longbow Research].
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Yes thanks for taking the question.
Can you just talk a little bit about your North American builder channel business and what you’re seeing in terms of demand conditions in growth and to the extent which your share their maybe be improving? And then secondly maybe if you could just talk a little bit about share repurchase program you’re active in the quarter.
Is it your intent at this point to maintain a fairly regular cadence or are you trying to purchase a little more opportunistically? Thank you.
So David you just sneaked in two questions I’ll take the first one.
So first one the North American builder two components the demand and I know there has been some noise about the demand.
We continued to see strong sustained demand on U.S.
housing.
I wouldn’t see any sign which makes us change our opinion compared to what we’ve said several quarters ago.
To put back clearly housing starts we still expect $1.1 million for this year and next year you can probably put it somewhere between $1.3 million $1.4 million in the ballpark.
So we see sustained or even stronger demand driven by household formation and increased consumer confidence.
Okay Marc.
Could you remind us just what that represents as a percentage of your North American business? Yes again it’s careful – I’m careful about dotting down number because you have two parts of the bill-to-business you have a direct bill-to-business which we do have a national contracts and then of course you have a lot of small bill-to-business which typically flews for Home Depot and Lowes.
So you have two components it’s kind of – but it’s a healthy component of our North American business.
So having said that in that channel as you know we made over last three years or four years I would say substantial market share improvements and we are certainly from direct bill-to-business where we know the contracts that are stable to slightly increasing.
So we’re very satisfied and very bullish going forward in the North American bill-to-business.
Share repurchase from capital allocation David we’re going to continue to apply same methodology we have over the last several years as far as funding the business.
We do have a debt-to-cap ratio which we stated one to one and a half times we’re at well above that with the acquisitions.
We have repurchased over $1 billion of stock over the last several years.
We’ve recently increased the dividend and as we shown again we have opportunistically take advantage of M&amp;A.
So we’re not going to give you a target or what we will be repurchasing but we’ll balance all of those elements going forward.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you David and thank you everyone.
We look forward to talking to you in October.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference.
You may disconnect at anytime and have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to Whirlpool Corporation's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Senior Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Chris Conley.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Whirlpool Corporation third quarter 2015 conference call.
Joining me today are Jeff Fettig our Chairman and CEO; Vice Chairman Mike Todman; President and Chief Operating Officer Marc Bitzer; as well as Larry Venturelli our Chief Financial Officer.
Our remarks today track with the presentation available on the Investors section of our web site at whirlpoolcorp.com.
Before we begin let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements to assist you in understanding Whirlpool Corporation's future expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially from those statements due to many factors discussed in our latest 10-K and our other periodic reports as well as on slide one and in the appendix of this presentation.
Turning to slide two we want to remind you that today's presentation includes non-GAAP measures.
We believe these measures are important indicators of our operations as they exclude items that may not be indicative of or unrelated to results from our ongoing business operations.
We also think these adjusted measures will provide you with a better baseline for analyzing trends in our ongoing business operations.
Listeners are directed to the appendix section of our presentation beginning on slide 37 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP items to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
With that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Well good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
As you saw on our press release this morning we reported record revenue ongoing operating profit and earnings per share for the third quarter.
Our integration activities in both Europe and Asia continue to progress well and we expect to continue to deliver significant integration benefits during the fourth quarter.
And during the quarter our larger global operating platform enable us to offset continued volatility in the global economic environment.
If you'd now turn to slide 5 we will look at our third quarter results; you will see where we delivered strong revenue growth in the third quarter with the revenues up 9% versus last year and up nearly 25% if you exclude the impact of currency.
Ongoing business earnings were a record $3.45 a share and additionally our free cash flow improved compared to the prior year.
On slide 6 you can see an update to our current year regional margin expectations versus last year.
Here we expect substantial operating margin improvement and record performance in three out of our four regional businesses.
Those three being North America Europe and Asia.
These regions are clearly on track for the year and we are making meaningful progress towards our 2018 goals.
In Latin America and in Brazil specifically we have taken actions to address the current market challenges and we expect to continue to adjust as appropriate to deliver margin improvements in this very challenging environment during the fourth quarter.
Turning to slide 7 we are outlining our current industry demand expectations for the full year.
Based on recent demand trends we are revising upward our North America business to a 5% growth.
We are lowering our Latin America forecast to a minus 20% decline and we are lowering Asia to a 2% decline primarily coming from China.
Turning to slide 8 we are affirming the lower range of our previous guidance which reflects the current currency in emerging market demand levels.
We now expect to deliver record ongoing earnings of $12 to $12.50 per share and free cash flow of $600 million to $700 million for the year.
Globally we continue to pursue opportunities for both growth and margin expansion.
Including leveraging our newly introduced innovative products in many markets around the world executing on ongoing cost productivity programs and delivering on our acquisition synergies.
So in summary we are making significant progress towards our long range goals this year despite a very challenging global economic environment with negative impacts of currency in emerging market demand.
But having said that we do expect to deliver a record year of revenues and ongoing earnings and earnings per share along with strong free cash flow in 2015.
Before I move on to the regional sections I would like to make a few comments on the leadership announcements we made earlier this week.
On Wednesday our Vice Chairman Mike Todman has announced his planned retirement at the end of the year.
We also announced that Marc Bitzer has been promoted to President and Chief Operating Officer for our company.
First of all I'd like to take the opportunity to thank Mike for his more than 20 years of service to the company serving in a wide variety of global leadership roles.
Mike is leaving us with a strong legacy within our company as an enabler of our global expansion and he has had a very positive impact on our entire global enterprise.
Although Mike will be greatly missed we all want to wish him the very best for he and his family in his retirement.
At the same time I am also very pleased to have Marc move in to his new role and I am confident that under his leadership we will have a very positive impact as we continue to execute our long term strategy.
So at this point I am going to turn it over to Marc Bitzer.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on slide 10 by reviewing North America's performance in the third quarter.
Overall we are pleased that our third quarter performance which included record ongoing operating margins of 12%.
As you might recall at the beginning of the year we provided ongoing operating margin expectations of 10.5% to 11.5% for the year and in this quarter we have [indiscernible] deliver at the top end of that range.
Very strong operating margins in the third quarter but primarily driven by our ongoing cost productivity programs and new product introductions which more than offset nearly $30 million in unfavorable currency impacts.
Our net sales of $2.8 billion for North America were unchanged compared to the prior year period and up nearly 3% excluding currency.
While we are pleased with our margins we are obviously not satisfied with our top line performance which has been trailing the market for several quarters.
Up until now our priority has been on the expansion of operating margins and we are very pleased with the result of that execution.
Our focus in the fourth quarter and beyond will be on delivering strong margins while clearly accelerating plans to achieve our expected revenue growth targets.
Turning to slide 11 we outline our actions taken to continue delivering strong results in the region.
We believe the industry is in a middle of a multiyear growth cycle which in combination has historically strong seasonal demand in the fourth quarter positions us for a record performance this year.
As mentioned previously we expect to accelerate our plan to leverage the increase in consumer demand for our new products drive improved price mix and volume growth in the fourth quarter.
And finally we will continue to deploy strong cost productivity plans as well as focus on growing outside the core.
On slide 12 as an example of our product leadership you can see our new multi-door Whirlpool branded refrigerator.
This award winning product has nine storage zones and is designed to keep food organized to each family's preference.
I will now share the third quarter results for our Europe Middle East and Africa region as shown on slide 14; sales were $1.5 billion compared to $0.8 billion in the prior year driven by the acquisition and continued recovery in the Western European demand.
Ongoing operating profit was a third quarter record of $71 million with ongoing operating margins at 4.9% compared to $9 million and 1.2% in the third quarter of 2014.
During the third quarter strong execution of our integration plans and ongoing cost productivity more than offset approximately $45 million in unfavorable currency impact primarily from the Euro and Ruble that delivered yet another quarter of significantly expanded operating margins.
Slide 15 as we look toward the full year 2015 our priorities remain unchanged.
There is a strong focus on integration activities ongoing cost productivity and growth from new products both within and beyond the core.
Slide 16 as an example of product leadership in region you can see our new Whirlpool branded washing machine and dryer with products combining Precision Cleaning the Eco-Friendly Drying and have recently won the prestigious European iF design awards.
And now I would like to turn it over to Mike.
Thanks Marc.
Let me begin with our Latin America results on slide 18; as you may recall on our Q2 call we expected demand to be down 15% and their AI to be between 3 and 3.25.
During the quarter the macro environment in Brazil further deteriorated with increased inflation volatile currency and lower demand.
As a result sales for the quarter were $751 million down 34% from the same prior year period.
Excluding the impact of currency sales decreased 7%.
Our operating profit for the quarter totaled $31 million or 4.2% of sales which represents operating margin consistent with our second quarter results.
These results included a year-over-year unfavorable operating profit impact of nearly $40 million due to currency and another $55 million due to reduced demand and lower production levels compared to prior year.
These were partially offset by favorability from our previously announced cost based price increases and mix improvements from new product introductions.
On slides 19 and 20 we want to put our Latin America business in context by providing additional detail about Latin America and Brazil specifically.
Brazil's currency is experiencing the most volatile period in the last 10 years.
In the third quarter compared to the prior year the reais devalued 55% versus the U.S.
dollar which had an approximately $300 million negative impact on our regional net sales and as I mentioned earlier a $40 million negative impact on operating profit.
Additionally the deepening political crisis increased inflation and falling global commodity prices has had a profound impact on Brazil's economy and as a result overall GDP is in the steepest decline since the global financial crisis.
On slide 20 we put Brazil's performance further into the context of the region.
It is important to note that our LAR international Extend and Expand businesses as well as the global compressor business are delivering solid performance this year and with the impact of this year's currency devaluation and demand reductions Brazil now represents less than 10% of our global sales.
To improve our performance in Brazil we have fully deployed previously announced actions and those actions have ally offset the impacts of currency and demand in the third quarter.
We are prepared to take additional actions as necessary targeting fixed cost reductions in the near future.
While we will be lower than our long term margin expectations for Latin America we believe we have the right actions to address the operating environment and expect improved operating margin in the fourth quarter.
On slide 21 we summarize our current priorities in Latin America.
We are managing short term challenges through previously announced and executed cost base price increases.
We have fully deployed previously announced actions to reduce fixed costs and have plans to deploy additional actions in the fourth quarter as necessary.
Finally its important to remember that while we are experiencing some short term issues in Brazil long term fundamentals that will facilitate future growth in the country are still intact.
We continue to invest in new products and will be well positioned to capitalized on growth when demand returns.
Turning to slide 22 we are showcasing the new console refrigerator that is designed with flexibility in mind.
It offers adjustable shelving and built-in containers that fit the needs of even the most demanding consumers.
Now I will turn to our third quarter results in the Asia region which are shown on slide 24; net sales were $346 million in comparison to $157 million in the prior year period driven largely by the strength of our integration actions we have delivered a record third quarter ongoing operating profit of $27 million.
Ongoing operating margins were 7.7% up significantly compared to the prior period behind the benefits of those integration actions and record gross margins in India.
Turning to slide 25 we will continue to focus on our integration activities in China with a special emphasis on continued distribution expansion and ongoing cost productivity programs.
As a result we will expect strong margin performance driven by our larger growth platform.
Slide 26 we highlight our new Whirlpool refrigerator that recently won the good design award for excellence in form and function.
It offers food preservation with some of our most advanced moisture control and precision cooling technologies.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Larry.
Thanks Mike and good morning everyone.
Let me start with our third quarter results on slides 28 and 29.
As Jeff mentioned we had record net sales and ongoing operating profit during the quarter.
Our revenues were $5.3 billion compared to $4.8 billion during the same prior year period an increase of over 9%.
Currencies impacted our revenues by over $700 million EBIT margins by two points and net earnings by over $1 per share.
As a result of the actions we took in the first half of the year to mitigate currency and emerging market demand headwinds we saw solid sequential improvement in both our margins and earnings during the quarter.
Our recent acquisitions have strengthened our global footprint and provide greater diversification of our regional profit contribution.
This combined with cost and capacity reductions ongoing cost productivity and an active cost base pricing actions enabled us to deliver all time record ongoing earnings of $3.45 per share despite weaknesses in emerging markets.
Allow me to make a few more detailed points on our financial results; we adjusted our third quarter ongoing earnings for $42 million primarily to account for product warranty and liability expenses on heritage Indesit products.
In addition we adjusted our opening balance sheet for the Indesit acquisition to reflect the warranty liability of approximately $275 million with after-tax impact of about $220 million.
We expect to substantially complete any actions related to these products by the end of 2017.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales on a GAAP basis increased slightly.
This increase is due to higher brand investment acquisition related costs and the deleveraging effect of weaker demand in Brazil.
We do however expect SG&amp;A margins to return to prior year levels as we realized integration synergies to additional fixed reductions and higher volumes in the fourth quarter.
Interest and sundry expense was better than a year ago primarily due to higher acquisition and legal costs in the prior year.
Finally as shown on slide 29 and consistent with the range we previously provided our effective tax rate year-to-date is now approximately 22%.
This adjustment was made during the quarter.
On slide 30 we are narrowing the range of our previous guidance to incorporate incremental currency and emerging market demand risk.
We now expect to deliver ongoing earnings of $12 to $12.50 per share.
As Jeff mentioned we are now forecasting approximately $600 million to $700 million in free cash flow which includes $75 million to $100 million in working capital investments to support international product transitions.
Turning to slide 31 let me make some additional comments regarding our ongoing EBIT margin; the solid sequential margin improvement delivered during the third quarter is expected to continue into the fourth quarter as we exit the year.
We expect continued improvement in price mix driven by the actions we have taken throughout the year and our new product launches and we are firmly on track with our cost and productivity reduction initiatives and expect continued improvement in ongoing productivity during the fourth quarter.
In summary we expect margins to improve sequentially and for the full year despite currency and emerging market demand headwinds.
On slide 32 you can see an update on the progress of our restructuring and integration activities in both Europe and Asia.
We incurred $145 million in restructuring expense and realized $135 million in benefits year-to-date which was consistent with our expectations.
For the full year we now expect $230 million in expense and $200 million in benefits.
It is important to note that the reduced expense forecast has had no impact on our synergy benefits that we expect.
As we continue to grow revenues and improve margins we have clear priorities to deploy the cash generated from our business as shown on slide 33.
Given our profitable growth trends increased investment capacity and strong balance sheet we continue to balance funding from all aspects of our business to ensure the best long term value creation for our shareholders.
I'd like to turn it back over to Jeff.
Thank you Larry.
Let me add a few final comments about our view of the business and expectations for the year.
This month it has actually only been a year ago where we closed on the acquisition of Hefei Sanyo in China and Indesit in Europe what I believe are two historic acquisitions that is helping to transform our global footprint.
Throughout this year and 2015 we have seen emerging market demand significantly decline and the U.S.
dollar rapidly strengthen against most of the currencies where we have significant exposure to.
Most notably the Brazilian reai the Euro the Canadian dollar and the Russian ruble.
Given the significant economic shocks this year we believe that currencies have experienced a global reset and we are prepared to operate this changed environment going forward.
Let me try to put this reset in perspective for you; currency alone is expect to impact us by reducing our revenues by over $2.5 billion versus the last year and have a negative $4 per share and earnings per share compared to last year.
And the impact from declining emerging market demand will cost us additional $1.75 per share.
In total currency in emerging market demands fundamentally versus last year has cost us $5.75.
But because of our larger global platform and our rapid responses to market change we have been able to absorb both of these impacts and are on track to deliver record revenues in earnings along with free cash flow this year.
Putting a longer term perspective actually to turn to slide 36 where we outlined the actions which we introduced late last year which we believe are key to deliver our long term growth value creation strategy and they really in our view remain unchanged.
And today we continue to see multiple paths for profitable growth going forward and today we also have very high confidence that our growth plan is giving us an outstanding opportunity to continue to deliver significant shareholder returns as we continue to execute these long range plans.
We will update all investors in detail on our 2016 expectations as well as our progress towards our 2018 goals on our next earnings call in late January.
That ends our formal remarks and I'd like to open this up for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
And we can take our first question from Denise Chai with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Thanks for taking my question and congratulations Marc and all the best to you Mike.
Thank you Denise.
Thanks.
So I know you have always been more focused on margins that on market share and when we look at North America you had such a tough comparison last year.
But this quarter the variance with AHAM was really outsized and you also listed your industry guidance for the year.
So what was behind the variance with AHAM and as you -- you said you are going to be shifting your focus a little bit more back to I guess market share.
Are you looking to maintain share or to regain lost share? Denise it's Marc.
So let me maybe expand a little bit.
I will talk about margin and our balance of margin versus revenues.
Obviously and I have stated that before we are very pleased with the margins that we have achieved.
12% operating margins that means we are pretty much now the twice the level of our key competitors [indiscernible] profit and I also would like to emphasize that 12% without any volume leverage.
So it just gives you a good indication of how strong the underlying business is from a gross margin and the entire cost structure.
As much as I am pleased with the margin progress we would be lying if we say we are satisfied with the revenue.
We are not okay and we -- so far folks have been strong in margin expansion and going forward we will find a good balance between margin a healthy margin profile and revenue growth.
So to be more specific on revenue growth us trading Q3 versus market its not what we intend.
There are a number of reasons and I am not going to get into all the reasons but more important thing is any constraint which we had so far is behind us and we are right now operating what I would call in a normal constrained environment.
I.e.
we have normal availability of products normal capacity that's behind us.
It should not give us any reason why we don't achieve a revenue growth which we have in mind for Q4.
Denise this is Jeff I'd just add to that.
And again as Marc clearly outlined our priority to create value was first to fix the margins.
We are on a great track to having done that then grow and I would say in supporting Marc's point we have the tools to grow.
We believe in earning market share not buying market share and I think we are in a great position to do that going forward.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And just one more on LatAm you have taken so much price but volumes were a lot worse than we were expecting.
So are you losing share in that market and how much are your competitor's raising price? And also at some point do you focus on market share in Brazil? Denise let me address that.
First of all the market in Brazil was down by 27% in the quarter so the market was fairly negative.
And the fact of the matter is that's just -- there is an impact on consumer demand and so -- less consumers alike.
Having said that we are focused on both margin and share.
We did lose couple of points a share in the quarter but not significant and we think we had the right plans in place with some of our product launches and the work that we are doing in order to recover that share.
So we see that as a very short term item.
So I can't comment on what the competitors are doing but we continue to do what we think is necessary from a pricing perspective and taking out costs to make sure that we maintain our margins.
Denise I'd say our profile in the total Latin America country wise is different than others so it really depends on your country profile.
I'd say without a question I think in Brazil we are relative to our competitive Brazil market where despite the difficulties we are in a strong as a position as we have ever been.
I would just add Denise keep in mind that in Brazil we have been leading pricing increases and there is always a lag related to that.
Got it.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Robert Wetenhall with RBC Capital Markets.
Hey.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Hey just wanted to focus on North America.
It looks like unit volumes were flat year-over-year and it seems like industry shipments are kind of mid-single digit growth; and I think that would suggest that you guys would have very strong volumes going into fourth quarter and I just wanted to see if I am thinking about that right; do you see a good spike in volumes both on a sequential and on a year-over-year basis in North America? So Robert its Marc let me first come to Q3 and then we can talk about Q4.
In Q3 our volumes have been flat to very slightly down which also implies that despite Canada and everything else we had stable to slightly positive price mix which is I would say good achievement in a very competitive environment.
But ultimately in Q3 we lost market share even though as always and as we made comments in previous times our units aren't exactly comparable to T6 or T7 market share because there is more in our volumes than just T6 and T7.
There is also Canada Mexico small domestic etcetera.
Anyhow having said about Q3 we lost market share -- there are certain elements of different shipment patterns between Q3 and Q4 last year so that gives a little bit of a tailwind in Q4.
But above and beyond and more importantly it’s the -- final but fully effective for new product launches which give us momentum in Q4.
Got it.
And then taking from that you had a very strong third quarter margin performance in North America 12% plus and that's also at the -- above your full year guidance top of the range for 11 to 11.5.
So should we expect to see very robust margin performance in the fourth quarter ast well? Robert as I stated in the previous comments we expect to be at the top end of that range.
Again in context we gave 10.5 to 11.5.
If you just do the arithmetic math yes we are at the very top end of that range.
I think from a structure margin run rate we do not expect any surprise but the question is how much volume leverage can be captured.
Got it.
And if I could just sneak one more in can you give a little color in terms of what you are seeing on industry growth trends in Europe and Asia year-to-date and how kind of organic volumes are trending versus your expectations? Thanks very much.
So Robert it's Marc again.
I am going to give a comment on Europe and then Mike will give a comment on Asia.
On Europe again it’s a split market if you want to say.
But Eastern European market demand continues to be very slow and very much down which is driven by Russia and Ukraine.
As we know these markets are also historically very volatile markets so its always difficult to predict how long they will be down.
Historically we didn't see these markets to be down on an extended timing but right now year-to-date they are down significantly and keep also in mind that the acquisition we have a much higher footprint and exposure in these Eastern European countries compared to previous years.
The western side on the other side I would say its stronger than anticipated.
The most markets are in a very healthy and robust phase.
But totally if you add the two numbers together that's basically 0% to 2% forecast and I would say right now if Western Europe sustains then we would be probably at the high side of that range and that's what we would expect it from today's perspective.
Okay Robert.
Just to give a little perspective on Asia.
As you know we took the Asia forecast down to about minus two and that's largely driven by China.
China has been slower in terms of market events than we expected kind of coming into the year.
Its at around minus 4% right now and for that market it’s a big decline although in general terms its not and we don't think that it should have a significant impact on our business.
India is a little bit different.
We have had a couple of quarters of fairly strong market demand and then the third quarter more because of seasonal issues it reduced.
But we think India will stabilize at a small growth and that's why we have about a minus two for the year.
And we will take our next question from Sam Darkatsh with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Jeff Marc Larry and Mike how are you? Good morning.
Good Sam.
And Marc congratulations and Mike congratulations to you as well and it was a pleasure working with you over the years.
Thank you.
Thank you Sam.
Couple of questions.
First clarification Marc if I could peg you on this what specifically were core shipments in the U.S.
as it relates to AHAM comparable? Sam its Marc.
The key seven as we look at it is a plus 8.1% in Q3.
That's basically -- and given our guidance of 5% then you can make the math what it basically implies for Q4 i.e.
4% to 5% in that ballpark.
That's what we -- again referring to the key seven units that's consistent with what we previously communicated.
That's the industry.
I was looking for your units in the third quarter.
Our units in the third quarter were almost minus 0.6%.
All in keep in mind that's more than T7 versus significant impact for Canada in -- their Canadian market is very soft and there is also impact for Mexico in there.
Well I was specifically looking for T7 when you guys were doing in T7 in the quarter? Sam as you know we don't typically drill down by U.S.
T7 numbers.
Directionally flat slightly -- very-very slightly up but its not to a level of a market.
Got you.
And two more quick questions if I could can you give an update Marc in terms of the $170 million in acquisition integration savings that you had originally planned for 2016 over 2015.
What is that number now based on currencies and volumes and what have you and how much of that actually do you expect to translate down to the bottom line? This is Larry.
Let's first talk 2015 even with weaknesses in the Euro we will exceed our 2015 synergy target.
At Investor Day we did show 2016 our expectations between 2015 and 2016 would be approximately $170 million.
We will update that but we continue to believe we are going to have some really strong synergies in 2016 consistent with what we have talked about in the past.
And Sam it's Marc again.
Just to add to that response; first of all we will hit or even exceed the dollar synergy target which means in local currency we are actually quite a bit ahead of the original communicated plan.
Given that synergies build over time it shows -- gives you a lot of confidence going into 2016.
So far our integration is running very well and we remain fully committed and confident behind the numbers that we showed at Investor Day and communicate subsequently.
Thank you.
Last question if I could Larry; you took the free cash flow expectations lower for the year but you took your CapEx and restructuring cash outlays lower also.
I imagine as some of that might be slightly lower net income but what is the other variable that I am missing in terms of -- like free cash flow is going down now versus prior expectations? Yeah I think the point I made in my remarks Sam was we are going to carry a little bit higher inventory than originally expected and that's primarily due to international product transitions and that's obviously a timing issue.
That's already on the books or that's planned into 4Q also? Well in the fourth quarter a little bit higher in inventory than we previously said.
Got it.
Thank you very much gentlemen.
We will take our next question from Michael Rehaut with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone and congrats also to Marc and best of luck to you Mike.
Thank you.
The first question I just -- I guess you [indiscernible] in a couple questions on this already but I think its going to be -- one of the big focuses coming out of the call and I am referring to North America margins versus volume and Marc you kind of mentioned that.
You still expect to generate healthy margins and you have done a lot of heavy lifting in terms of really strong improvement over the last two years.
But at this point it kind of sounds like you are shifting the pendulum a little bit back in the other direction where you are still going to -- like you said have healthy margins but try and achieve some better revenue growth and it sounds like you were maybe a little disappointed with 3Q.
Is that the right way to think about it? In other words the 12% that you have got into 3Q should we kind of think about that as more or less a high water mark and maybe when you say still healthy margins maybe that could be something a little less than that for next year? Michael its Marc.
These are obviously several questions embedded in one question and obviously we don't give guidance at this point for next year.
So first of all on high watermark on peak margins.
Keep in minds the number that are floating around half a year ago I presume peak margins we have already proven.
And I don't want to nail down whatever is the peak margin.
But the only thing which I want to reemphasize we achieved 12% in Q3 without any volume leverage which is a big deal.
Having said that and you mentioned that its not margin versus volume its margin and volume and I think ultimately for us it means a better balance between margin expansion and volume growth.
Its not margin versus revenue its margin expansion versus volume growth and to be very honest yeah we will put a strong emphasis on revenue growth without diluting our strong margin profile.
Okay.
So in other words I guess embedded in my first question what was lacking there was that -- you can't necessarily think about giving up margin because you are kind of ignoring the leverage benefits from the better volume and as you said you are still hoping to hold on to the margin levels and maybe just dial back the expansion from here.
Did I understand that right? First of all again we are not going to give a 2016 margin guidance and I am not going to try to say we will hold the margin.
[Indiscernible] our emphasis on margin expansion versus revenue growth and that's what we will kind of carefully balance going forward.
Okay.
Appreciate it.
Michael just keep in mind the longer term goals for North America back in December were 12 plus.
We are at -- as Marc mentioned we will be at the higher end of this year in the range of 10.5 to 11.5.
So we are very much on track with the longer term perspective of the company and to Marc's point we will balance that with revenue growth.
That's there.
Appreciate it.
Just a few technical questions I guess; you mentioned about the progress with Indesit and at this year you're exceeding your synergy target.
I believe you'd called for $80 million and as you said $170 million which will be updated.
If you are exceeding this year and you still remain on track for the full amount of $350 million over the next three years does that mean that -- maybe you could give us a sense of where you are in 2015 versus the 80 originally expected and in effect we should think that perhaps you are holding on to the full $350 million but some of 2016 is coming into 2015? Michael its Marc.
Let me try to answer.
So first of all on the $80 million you are correct that's mostly anticipated restructuring benefit in U.S.
dollars.
We are in U.S.
dollars at the $80 million or slightly above which means also compared to our original euro assumption we are actually trading quite a bit ahead from operating synergies.
And again keep in mind euro is our operating currency in Europe.
So I mean from an -- everyday what we deliver from synergies it looks very good.
Which also means yes we are confident on the previously stated $170 million and we are confident on the previously stated $350 million.
The other thing that you got to bear in mind what we did not anticipate coming in the year but we have been able to mitigate it for additional actions there are significant currency issues in Europe that comes from a weaker euro because you have a lot of dollar buy in Europe largely from China and other Asian areas and particularly with Ruble and from [indiscernible].
So we have massive currency headwinds.
Again I am very pleased that through better synergies and better ongoing cost productivity we have been fully able to mitigate kind of any currency headwinds.
And if you drill down the European number what I am particularly pleased with is the massive margin progress year-over-year is very healthy between gross margin benefits and SG&amp;A improvements.
So we are kind of fitting in on both sides.
And Michael to be clear because you have talked about in both markets.
In terms of our direction that's why we put the margin chart in this.
North America Europe and Asia are falling on track and I would say also falling on track on our 2018 long range goals.
The outlier this year from a regional business has been Latin America because of -- again I won't repeat the currency and the decline in the market we are dealing with that.
But in terms of the expectations we maybe getting there a slightly different way in Europe more synergies offset by current transactional currency costs and things like that but directionally all three of these regional businesses are on track for a record year and are on track for our 2018 long range goals.
All right.
One last one if I could the tax rate I believe and then I believe I will hop off.
The tax rate guidance at 22% I guess that's now at the low end of the prior range of 22% to 25% if I have that right.
Is that a number that 22 now for 2015 that we can use for 2016 all else equal or there are other some one time things and we should think of a tax rate of 22% to 25% long term for the company? Again Michael its kind of hard to forecast really long term tax rates.
But I would say going into next year we would expect our range to be what we stated at the beginning of this year a similar range.
Okay.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
David please check the mute function on your phone.
Yeah there we go.
Sorry about that.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning David.
I guess I think Michael had the right point this is truly -- North America is going to be the focal point of the call wanted to better understand just some of the moving parts here.
It seems as though you don't want to break out Canada and Mexico maybe just this one point you may want to make an exception on that just because it seems to be such a core concern for investors today.
But I want to understand kind of the price mix being up 350 basis points and I think gross margins in North America about 200 basis points.
It looks like maybe you are walking away from some unprofitable business but maybe you could just peel back a little bit and give us a little more color on the moving parts there.
David its Marc Bitzer.
Again in terms of the specific breakdown on Canada Mexico we won't provide details but however I will you a couple of hints which we will also present at the investor conference.
Canada historically has been a $1 billion business for us roughly that's what we showed -- depending on the currency that's what we showed all semester day.
If you look at the exchange rates you basically had to do about 25% or almost 30% devaluation over last 18 months.
So just do a math on the entire year North America business it gives you a sense about how much of revenues we are losing in Canada.
To a much smaller extent but still to an extent you have Mexico also but our Mexican business is not the same size as Canada.
So yes that has been impacting but the reality is we don't have sufficient growth -- didn't have sufficient growth in Q3 on our U.S.
core business and that's what we will change going forward.
So are you walking away from a profitable business and maybe just talk a little bit about U.S.
or domestic market share? I mean David I wouldn't say we are walking from unprofitable business.
I would say it’s a combination of two things; one we have not yet found a full leverage of all our new products as we talked a lot about the massive amount of product introductions the Kitchen Aids the new VBL.
So we don't yet have the full leverage of all different products in the market.
And yes there is also elements -- as always there are certain promotions which are non-value creating.
We only participate in what value creating promotions and there has been a slightly higher promotion pressure by certain competitors more imports in the markets.
So how much of the apparent share losses occurring on long weekend sales of that is versus day-to-day business? David we don't drill it down by promotional times and regular business.
But if you connect it back to my previous comments yes there has been a slightly higher promotional pressure by certain imports and that typically comes with extended promotion periods and deeper discounts from promotions.
I just noticed that upon the expiration of these retail sales events MSRPs are popping right back into map line which would suggest that most of this promotion is happening on sales events.
So I am just wondering if that's where your share vulnerability lies? Not entirely David.
Again typically yes you would expect during certain promotions our share may not be exactly the same as during non-promotion periods.
And David I would say that pattern has not changed on the heavily promoted particularly the ones that -- the major holidays.
We would typically lose share and we bounce right back afterwards.
And that pattern hasn't really changed but I would just say to Marc's point is that certain competitors turn weekend promotions into month long promotions and that has been a little bit more problematic and we are figuring out ways to deal with it and we will and I'd also like to point out that our -- again I feel very good about the tools we have available.
We had some issues to get them all available in the marketplace.
As you know this time of the year you don't change [indiscernible] everyday so we are working customer-by-customer and again I believe we are in a great position to grow and candidly with our good margin structure its very value creating for us to grow.
And we will take our next question from Megan McGrath with MKM Partners.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks.
I guess just to drill down on this a little bit more and then I am going to move to Brazil.
But one of the things Marc you just said is obviously on the promotions and then you sort of mentioned you haven't found full leverage of the new products and you have had a pretty robust slate of new products let's say for the past 10 months or so.
Can you point to any reasons why you think those new products haven't taken off as fast as you thought? Is it just because the promotional environment has been higher or have there been execution issues with getting them out? Can you dig deeper a little bit into that one for us? So Megan let me try to address the two points promotion and the new products.
Just to be very clear our new products the way how we look at the new products when we floor and do a turn I do a sell-through and that is going very well.
I think the uplift which we get whenever we have our new products floored is we are very pleased to a point where we sometimes even have capacity constraints.
When I talk about the leverage yes I mean as we refer to all the previous calls there has been a slight delay on how we ramped up the new product how we get the full production capacity.
That impacts the pace at which you can flow the product and subsequently the sell through.
But the important thing is whenever we have a flow it sells very well and we are very pleased and that's what gives us a lot of confidence going forward.
On the promotions it’s the same comments as before.
We are participating than we believe we can create value with certain promotions and in Q3 there have probably been a slightly higher share of promotions which we would consider clearly non-value creating.
And then can you then walk us through why you think 4Q is going to be different? First of all we know what is our ramp up pace of the new product.
We know how many were floored and this retail concentration which we have in North America is pretty -- you can't predict pretty well -- depending on the floored units what rotation you get and we have a good indication rotation.
Obviously we also have a certain order pipeline that we know and have a pretty good sense October-November that gives us a lot of confidence and we are certain as I hinted before.
There are certain seasonality elements between Q3 Q4 last year which are slightly different this year.
So a combination of these three factors give us the confidence we have for revenue growth in Q4.
Okay.
Thank you.
That's helpful.
And then shifting really quickly to Brazil I guess one of the things I am trying to get a handle on here is -- I know I think last quarter the quarter before you presented the chart around GDP and how it usually bounces back and obviously we are not seeing a bounce back.
So what's different in your strategy now as you look at Brazil versus your strategy three months ago? Well Megan I'd say our strategy is unchanged.
We are essentially executing what we said we were which is new product introductions and innovations.
But we are having to -- and managing our brands in the marketplace the way we have talked about it.
What we have had to do though is react to a volatile environment.
And so when currency changes then we have to react to that when demand goes down we have to react to that and our ability to react to that has been very quick.
And so we have managed that.
The difference in the Brazil environment right now than I think in some of the past is you have a political crisis going on now as well.
And so that has just introduced kind of another factor which has driven some volatility.
What I can tell you is I feel really good about our ability to respond to that our ability to -- if you will change our business profile quickly but continue to execute our long term strategy.
That hasn't changed at all and I am confident that as we manage through this we will see improvements in our margins and when growth returns we will really like the answer.
Okay.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Ken Zener with KeyBanc Capital.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Ken.
Apologize if there is background noise.
Look I think in America you guys are going to be focused on profitable growth that you are talking about.
So Marc if you could just say you ran some degree short of your metric [indiscernible].
What percent of that was -- if you don't want to give us market share how much of that was self-inflicted? Self-inflicted meaning you had products ramping up etcetera as opposed to the promotional.
Would you say half of it was self-inflicted half of it was promotional? Ken its Marc.
We don't break down how much of a market share was self-inflicted that you call versus promotional environment.
At the end of the year it was market share in a competitive environment by definition you do 100% in a competitive environment.
However I would say directionally about half of it has been driven by certain constraints which are under our control but the other half is particularly focused on certain product categories where we had a slightly higher promotional pressure intensity by certain imports.
Okay.
And then what would you say relative to that competitive import pressure; because I believe the tariff review for a large residential loss which is one of the two effective complaint you guys filed was actually reduced.
Could you comment on that? So first of all Ken and without getting into the details of a dumping discussion the previous dumping cases which we won there is a very important aspect; the tariff referring to certain countries and reductions some of the imports have shifted their production source.
What is in our view a certain mention on efforts of trying to circumvent the existing tariff we have been I think on the investor conference we have been talking about it that we monitored very closely.
And yes there is a strong correlation between the promotion intensity and where this production has been shifting to and we are observing it very closely monitoring very closely.
But I don't want to at this point reveal what we have or might have as an anti-dumping strategy going forward.
Understood.
Jeff if we look at LatAm so your margins as we enter the year when you guys took guidance from 2014 to 2015 down to 12 to 13.
[Indiscernible] to Brazil about currency and demands continue to fall.
If we were to sit in that April quarter your view was that you were going to be ramping up in the second half towards the longer term 8% to 9% of EBIT.
That was deferred obviously in 2Q as reported because demand is fading.
You thought it would be exiting the year at 8 or 9.
And now it says that you guys while not giving 2016 guidance talk about it being below that long term growth rates.
Could you give us an understanding of how that long term growth EBIT margin is actually impacted by the contraction we had within that core market being Brazil? Is it possible to hit that 8 to 9 if you just don't have the volume? Because you are not going to go in and restructure your whole footprint like you have done in various regions.
So are we really shooting at -- if volume is down 30% let's just say it is [indiscernible] are we going to be sitting more at a 6% to 7% from the total segment? Ken to your point and particularly in Brazil; but there is a few other countries also I would -- to Latin America.
We have literally seen three waves so far this year of currency devaluation which there is a first quarter wave and then it stabilized for a while and then there is a second quarter wave and now the third quarter wave and we have seen the currency from last year go from an average of about 2.30 to 2.35 to now almost 4 and obviously no one forecasted that and nor did the financial markets forecast that.
Now with that then came an accelerated decline of demand and those comped as you can in a rapidly changing economy like that you know right now and all of our forecasts are updated to 20% down in Brazil and about a 4.0 reais and based on that we are very confident about increasing our margins and forecasting and so on and so forth.
What we really need to see is stability whether in currency and demand whatever levels they are; because we adjust and we have adjusted very rapidly every quarter to these exchanges but we are chasing a down market right now.
Is it going to stabilize in the fourth quarter I don't know but to your bigger question maybe your medium term question is whatever the reais is and whatever demand levels are its down 20% or 30% once it stabilizes I absolutely believe given our market position given our brand equity we will number one continue to have a very strong share position of their share and we will be able to drive at least 8% plus margins because that's a choice and that's what we would choose to do.
The key is it’s the rapid profound volatility that you have to adjust to and it doesn't take us years to adjust we adjust now within months.
We just still -- but we'd have to adjust several times.
And so what we really need to do is just wherever the bottom is see stability we will start building margins back up from there.
I appreciate that.
And I am going to ask another follow-up question related to LatAm and if you could -- comfortable to expand on it.
Marc you highlighted Canada at your investor day was $1 billion there is currency that has changed.
Jeff Marc or Mike do you guys do the same for LatAm in terms of -- you had Brazil at the same point in December 2014.
Could you tell us what percent of LatAm it is today and if you would directionally talk about margins I guess within that segment being brought outside of Brazil and Brazil if you would -- because I think on the increment people are really trying to understand is if you are looking for stability in Brazil you haven't found it yet but we also want to understand how Brazil is different than those two other pockets that I just mentioned because that's also going to point to the stability if those businesses exchange table and are deteriorating.
Thank you very much.
Ken maybe let me just take a quick shot at that.
If you go back to our presentation we kind of gave you a view 2014 and then to 2015 what sales look like if you broke them down in LatAm and what the percentages were.
What it showed is the compressor business went from 32% to 37% of our LatAm business that are -- Extend and Expand in international went from 15 to 22 and then it showed that Brazil core went from 53 to 41.
So you can see kind of what the rebalancing in sales have been.
I can tell you that our compressor business continue to perform and the margins in our compressor business are exactly where we thought they would be.
And remember this is a global compressor business.
So yes it has some impact in LatAm and it has an impact in some other regions of the world but there is some balance because it also provides product in North America and Europe etcetera etcetera.
So the margins in that we have been able to manage and they are very good.
Our LAR international and Extend and Expand businesses have also performed very well in this environment and are delivering increases in both sales and we are taking market share in LAR International as well as maintaining a very high margin level.
So the reality is as we look at the rebalancing the impact of Brazil core has become less and less on the total.
And so we are pretty confident that we are continue to perform in those other businesses and that's going to allow us to perform in Latin America.
And we will take our next question from Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
Thank you.
Two things first of all in terms of material cost savings input savings if you could update us on 2015 and some thoughts on 2016 and also curious on how you think about those savings relative to the investments that you are considering within the North American business? Yeah Eric this is Larry we have said in the last call that we expect raw material benefits of around $100 million and if trends were to continue we'd expect it to be north of that and certainly we would say would be north of that.
Its also important for 2015.
Its also important to note that many of the currencies around the world are U.S.
dollar based.
So when you are in emerging markets there is a partial currency offset to that.
But based on rates we are seeing right now we'd say north of $100 million for 2015.
And Eric going into next year if current trends hold we will see some further improvement.
Based on today's rate wouldn't be as much next year as this year because we are already accruing some of those benefits this year.
But we have activities.
We have productivity activities we have continued -- the way we look at it is called total cost productivity which includes not all raw materials but productivity programs as well as our restructuring synergy.
So we are very positive about our ability to generate those next year.
We have not -- again I don't necessarily buy the question leading to the -- we are going to spend margin money in the marketplace.
We are going to be competitive in the marketplace.
We have got the right tools we have got great innovation great brands and I fully expect that we will do it in a value creating way.
With that we will wrap up the call for today.
We would like to thank everybody for your participation and we will talk to you again.
Thank you everyone for joining us and we will look forward to talking to you next time.
And this does conclude today's program.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to Whirlpool Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Senior Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Chris Conley.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Whirlpool Corporation fourth quarter 2015 conference call.
Joining me today are Jeff Fettig our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Marc Bitzer our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Larry Venturelli our Chief Financial Officer.
Our remarks today track with a presentation available on the Investors section of our website at whirlpoolcorp.com.
Before we begin let me remind you that as we conduct this call we will be making forward-looking statements to assist you in understanding Whirlpool Corporation's future expectations.
Our actual results could differ materially from these statements due to many factors discussed in our latest 10-K and our other periodic reports as well as on slide one and in the appendix of this presentation.
Turning to slide two we want to remind you that today's presentation includes non-GAAP measures.
We believe these measures are important indicators of our operations as they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to results from our ongoing business operations.
We also think these adjusted measures will provide you with a better baseline for analyzing trends in our ongoing business operations.
Listeners are directed to the appendix section of our presentation beginning on slide 36 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP items to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
With that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
As you saw in our press release this morning we reported record revenue ongoing profit and earnings per share for full year 2015.
Overall our integration activities in Europe and Asia progressed well and as planned we delivered significant integration benefits both in the fourth quarter and for the full year.
Our ability to deliver these record results despite significant volatility in the global economic environment does demonstrate the strength of our execution and the benefits of our larger global operating platform.
If you turn to slide five I will review the 2015 financial results.
Where you see that we delivered strong revenue growth for the year our revenues were up 5% versus last year and 18% excluding currency impact.
Our ongoing business earnings were a record $12.38 per share and as we expected we delivered $620 million in free cash flow.
Turning to slide six you can see our 2016 priorities in what we expect to be another record year.
We do believe that the challenges we successfully managed in 2015 will carry over into 2016.
And by that we mean we expect that emerging markets will continue to be weak or decline but we do see that largely offset by growth in our developed markets.
We also anticipate that the strong dollar era that we're experiencing will continue into this year.
So within this environment our focus in 2016 is to continue to grow revenues and we see great opportunities to expand our operating margins.
We plan to invest to grow globally in both our core appliance business and adjacent businesses.
We will deliver significant new product innovation to the market.
And we continue to expect to deliver very strong cost productivity.
So turning to slide seven where we show our guidance for 2016 we expect to deliver ongoing earnings per share of $14 to $14.75 a share which represents 15%-plus growth versus last year.
We also expect free cash flow generation of between $700 million to $800 million which is a substantial improvement versus the prior year.
And while 2015 was a year where we faced several challenges I think we were able to demonstrate our ability to create value for our shareholders through strong operational execution in this environment.
And our current guidance reflects our expectation that this level of execution will continue as we do expect to deliver another year of record results in 2016.
So at this point I'd like to turn it over to Marc Bitzer to review our global operations.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Turning to slide nine we will review North America's performance in the fourth quarter.
As emphasized in our last earnings call our strategy in North America has not changed.
We performed perfectly in line with our expectations as we grew revenues and substantially expanded margins in the fourth quarter.
We grew our revenues 6.2% excluding currency and expanded operating margin to 12.4% an all-time record.
As expected with our recently launched products fully available and nearly fully floored the investments we made to drive growth in our U.S.
business delivered sequential (05:07) market share improvement in the fourth quarter.
In addition to leverage from this revenue growth our very strong operating margins in the fourth quarter were driven by our ongoing cost productivity programs and favorable mix from our new product introductions which more than offset nearly $30 million in unfavorable currency impacts in Canada and Mexico.
Turning to slide 10 we outline our 2016 operation priorities for the North America region.
Our expectation is that the industry will continue to show strong 5% annual growth behind improved housing trends and consumer sentiment.
And we expect to grow our revenues at or above industry levels.
We also expect to continue accelerating growth of our new products to capitalize on this increased consumer demand and to drive improved price mix and revenue growth.
Our strong cost productivity programs will continue to drive margin improvement and remain focused on growing outside the core.
We anticipate that these actions will more than offset a point of margin impact from negative currency based on today's rate for the Canadian dollar and Mexican peso.
We expect to deliver operating margins between 11.5% and 12.5% which is fully in line with our long-term goals and another improvement over prior year.
I will now share the fourth quarter results for our Europe Middle East and Africa region as shown on slide 11.
Sales were $1.5 billion compared to $1.7 billion in the prior year.
Excluding currencies sales were up 8.1%.
Ongoing operating profit was $88 million compared to $101 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
During the fourth quarter strong execution of our integration plans and ongoing cost productivity mostly offset $45 million in unfavorable currency impacts as well as the impact of a significant industry decline in Russia.
Last year we saw an unusually strong fourth quarter in Russia as trading consumers bought heavily ahead of devaluation.
As planned and expected we also invested in marketing technology and products this quarter.
For the full year we delivered 4.5% operating margin which is fully consistent with our guidance at the beginning of the year in spite of $160 million in currency impacts and weaker demand in Eastern Europe.
On slide 12 as we look towards the full year 2016 our priorities remain unchanged with a strong focus on integration activities ongoing cost productivity and growth from new products both within and beyond the core.
We expect industry to be approximately flat to 2% primarily driven by continued strong demand in Western Europe.
Based on today's rate weakness in the ruble and euro will continue but we plan to more than offset over a point of margin impact from currency through ongoing cost productivity and acquisition synergies.
Overall we expect operating margins to be between 7% and 8% for the year which is another substantial year-over-year improvement and very consistent with and even ahead of our long-term goals.
Now we'll discuss our Latin America results on slide 13.
Sales for the quarter were $845 million.
Excluding the impact of currencies sales decreased 8%.
Our operating profit for the quarter totaled $58 million or nearly 7% of sales which represents a substantial improvement in operating margin versus the prior two quarters.
These margin levels are a clear indication that we have readjusted our business for today's operating environment through already deployed price mix actions and cost and capacity reductions.
On slide 14 we summarize our priorities in Latin America.
We expect demand through continued volatility and are fully prepared to deploy further actions if necessary.
We will continue to invest in new products grow our business out of Brazil core appliances and are well positioned to capitalize on growth in Brazil when demand does return.
We expect industry decline of 10% and based on today's rates a half a point of margin impact from currency primarily in the first half of the year.
For growth in our non-Brazil operations the benefits of previously announced cost based price increases implemented reduction of fixed costs and improved mix from our new products we expect to mitigate both currency and demand impact.
Based on our expectations of demand down 10% and the Brazilian real at current spot rates and with the benefit of our offsetting actions for 2016 we expect operating margins between 6.5% and 7.5% despite lower revenue due to the currency and emerging market demand.
Now we turn to our fourth quarter results in the Asia region which are shown on slide 15.
Net sales were $312 million in comparison to $282 million in the prior-year period.
Excluding the impact of currency our sales increased 15%.
Our fourth quarter ongoing operating profit was $11 million compared to $17 million in the prior-year period.
Ongoing operating margins were 3.6% driven by record margins in India and integration benefits in China that were offset by weak demand and increased product and marketing investments.
While these investments in China temporarily reduced our margins in the fourth quarter we expect them to lead to strong growth in margins in the future.
Turning to slide 16 we share our 2016 priorities for Asia operations.
We will continue to focus on distribution expansion and ongoing cost productivity programs.
Our expectation is for flat industry growth in the region.
For additional clarity about our assumptions we are forecasting a 5% industry growth in India and a 2% to 3% industry decline in China.
Overall we expect strong margin performance of 7% to 8% driven by our larger growth platform and the benefits of our strong innovation pipeline.
Slide 17 we summarize our regional margin goals.
We expect 2016 to be another year of record performance and see opportunities for strong margin expansions in all regions.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Larry.
Thanks Marc and good morning everyone.
As Jeff mentioned we had a solid year of performance.
You may recall that we entered the year with significant currency headwinds and weakened emerging market demand.
Given these challenges our first half ongoing earnings of approximately $4.85 per share were flat with 2014.
However based on the actions we took throughout the year we were able to deliver second half ongoing earnings of $7.55 per share which is up 15% from last year's results.
Our second half earnings momentum and our fourth quarter run rate entering 2016 are solid.
Turning to our fourth quarter results on slide 19 and 20 revenues were $5.6 billion currency had $700 million top line impact but excluding currency sales were up 4%.
We achieved all-time record ongoing earnings of $4.10 per share driven by acquisition synergies and ongoing cost productivity programs as well as price mix from new product introductions and previously announced cost-based price actions.
You'll note from the slide that SG&amp;A as a percent of sales on a GAAP basis decreased approximately 1.5 points.
While we did make incrementally higher marketing investments this year to support our product introductions those were more than offset by acquisition synergies and a planned reduction in acquisition related cost.
Our effective tax rate for the year was under 21%.
This represents approximately a $0.20 improvement versus our prior full year guidance.
In summary we are pleased with the results for the quarter.
Now turning to 2016 we expect another record year.
We will continue to be impacted by currency and emerging market demand.
However we are confident in the actions we are taking to offset these headwinds and deliver 15%-plus earnings per share growth in 2016.
First on slide 21 you can see that we absorbed nearly $6 from the combination of emerging market demand weakness and currency devaluation in 2015.
As Marc discussed in the regional reviews our operational focus and additional actions deployed during the year drove record revenue and earnings performance despite these challenges.
Now turning to slide 22 we share the 2016 assumptions for emerging market demand and currency headwinds included in our guidance.
As Jeff mentioned based on current exchange rates we expect currency devaluation to continue although at a reduced level compared to the prior year.
Accordingly we anticipate a negative impact of approximately $1 billion in sales and $2.50 in earnings per share from currency headwinds.
Additionally we are anticipating continued demand weakness in most emerging markets as a result we will offset $0.50 in earnings per share impact from that.
It's important to note that these emerging market countries now represent 15% of our global sales.
Finally on slides 23 and 25 we summarize key actions that we expect will offset the impact from currency and emerging market demand.
We expect another very strong year in total cost productivity given material trends fixed cost reductions taken in Brazil and our normal productivity programs.
Our acquisition synergies tighter cost and capacity reduction activities will ramp up during 2016.
We expect solid demand trends in developed markets combined with positive impact from previous and new product launches and growth in adjacent businesses.
And our previously announced cost based price increases in Canada Brazil and Russia are in full effect.
On slide 24 you can see an update on the progress of our restructuring and acquisition integration activities.
We incurred $200 million in restructuring expense and delivered $200 million in benefits this year consistent with previous communications.
For 2016 we expect $250 million in expense and continue to expect $175 million in benefits.
On slide 26 we highlight the cadence of half one versus half two earnings drivers we just addressed.
First given historical seasonality volume is stronger in the second half of the year.
In addition we should have lower currency headwinds in the back half of the year based on current rates.
Traditionally we see much stronger seasonality in our cost productivity programs in second half of the year and our acquisition synergies will ramp up throughout the year.
As a result we would expect full-year earnings seasonality to approximate 40% in the first half and 60% in the second half.
On slide 27 our 2016 guidance is to deliver record ongoing earnings of $14 to 14.75 per share a 15% increase year-over-year.
We are forecasting approximately $700 million to $800 million of free cash flow which includes planned cash outlays of up to $200 million in restructuring related to the acquisitions $150 million related to our previously announced product warranty cost in Europe and capital spending of between $700 million to $750 million.
Our priorities for cash deployment have not changed as shown on slide 28.
We did repurchase $155 million of stock during the fourth quarter and have $225 million remaining on our existing authorization.
We expect to complete our current share repurchase authorization this year.
Now I'd like to turn it back over to Jeff.
Thanks Larry.
I'd now like to take a moment to update you on our long-range goals that we first outlined at our December 2014 Investor Day conference.
Overall our long-term strategy remains on track and we see tremendous opportunities from our larger global footprint our leading position in key markets around the world our continuation of stepping up levels of new product innovation our strong brand portfolio with seven powerful brands each with over a billion dollars in revenues and over the mid-to-longer term we do believe that our leading positions in several key emerging markets will be a great advantage for us.
So then turning to slide 31 I would like to summarize our updated management goals.
And again as we discussed earlier last year and carrying over into this year we have been hit by declines in emerging market demands and significant currency valuations.
And this is really the only driver of our changing goals because this has had a large impact on our original sales goal.
As a result we now believe we can grow our revenues to $23 billion to $24 billion in sales by 2018 versus our previous goal of $26 billion to $28 billion.
And again the difference is essentially all purely from currency translation.
Because we have rapidly adjusted to the changed global environment through our previously announced cost based price increases fixed cost reductions and continued investment in new product innovation and we will continue to do so as we go forward.
We are offsetting these impacts previously discussed with what I believe is very strong operational execution and as a result we still expect to deliver operating margins consistent with our 2018 goals.
So we haven't changed our view at all that we can deliver double-digit operating margins globally.
And with that we expect to reach also our goal of doubling our free cash flow by 2018.
In total this will lead to strong earnings growth and we now plan to deliver strong growth in earnings per share to $20 to $22 per share in 2018.
Again the difference between this and the previous is simply a reduction in revenues due to currency.
These revised targets would represent an improvement of 60% to 80% over today's levels of earnings and represent exceptionally strong value creation.
As always there are risks of us putting out long-range goals like this right but I think as we've demonstrated last year we have been able to adjust to the environment and still deliver strong results.
So turning to slide 32 you can very specifically see the drivers in our ongoing earnings per share improvements.
And again we have multiple paths to drive value creation.
We'll drive it through growth acquisition synergies and cost productivities.
And these big levers that we outlined in December of 2014 have not changed.
We are on track with our acquisition synergies in Europe and we expect an additional $2 to $3 per share in benefits by 2018.
We are assuming demand in emerging markets like Brazil Russia and China begin to stabilize in 2017 but likely only drive moderate recovery growth during this planning cycle and we don't expect to see that until 2018.
Additionally demand in the U.S.
is rebounding consistent with our Investor Day assumptions and we continue to see solid growth in our adjacent businesses.
We also now are seeing more and more growth which is enabled by our Indesit and China acquisitions which are now part of our baseline revenue assumptions.
And finally and importantly from a cost productivity perspective we fully expect to continue with strong ongoing annual productivity improvements in addition to the benefits from favorable input costs that we're currently seeing and we see great opportunities to further leverage benefits from our global operating platform.
And I think over the last couple of years we've had a good track record of delivering on those type of benefits.
So to sum up we do expect to grow earnings per share by nearly 60% to 80% over the next three years to between $20 and $22 per share.
And then on slide 33 you can see the walk on how we expect to double our free cash flow.
And as you can see from this chart cash flow growth is largely earnings driven.
Working capital is just a bit higher due to growth in the business.
We don't expect any fundamental changes in our rate of capital expenditures which run about 3.5%.
And this has not changed.
So turning to slide 34 I'd just reconfirm we are committed to achieving our vision of becoming the best global branded consumer products company.
As a reminder we are number-one globally in three out of the four regions in the world.
We're the largest western company in Asia.
We have a top market position in five of the top seven largest appliance markets in Europe and we also have the number-one position in U.S.
Canada and Brazil.
So in total we have very high confidence that our growth plans give us an outstanding opportunity to continue driving significant shareholder returns.
And we believe 2016 will be a strong step forward towards reaching our 2018 goals.
So with that I will end our formal remarks and we would like to open it up for questions.
We can take our first question from Sam Darkatsh with Raymond James.
Please go head.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning Jeff Larry Marc.
How are you? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Great.
Good morning Sam.
Inc.</span></strong> I've got a couple questions here.
First off regarding Latin America Jeff you're looking at a margin up 1% or 2% year-on-year on obviously a continued very challenging times.
You don't normally do this but can you help us with what your margin expectations are for the sub-components of that region for the Brazilian white goods Embraco and the non-Brazilian white goods just to get a sense of what that margin growth means year-on-year? Sam I mean just breaking that out I won't give you specific but I'll give you directionally.
I mean there are three or perhaps four segments you can look in that business.
The most impacted for all the reasons we talked about is the Brazilian appliance business because of the currency and because demand being down almost 25% with the expectation – so that's where the heavy hit.
But I would say and I think I said this before we've been in Brazil market for over 60 years and we've never lost money in that market and we continue to be in a positive-profit position.
So even in that tough situation – but our margins were hurt very badly in appliances.
In our adjacent businesses other than offsetting the inflation they've remained intact.
Embraco which is our global compressor business was hurt by demand in emerging markets and currency but not nearly as much.
And we had a reasonably good year in Embraco.
And our international I would just say that it got hit by all the same currency deval – the currency devaluations came at different times.
We have a big position for example to Colombia.
Colombia pesos devalued by 50%.
Late in the year Argentina obviously devalued.
So we adjust but there's a larger basket of countries to do.
So those margins although hurt some were not hurt as bad.
So the predominant work I would say has been to do – which we've already announced the cost-based price increases which we've already announced and carry over into this year.
We've done significant fixed-cost reduction almost 30% I think.
We drive the heck out of productivity but we still have to offset inflation and negative demand.
So – and I think Marc said it exactly correct.
If you based on our assumption of today's spot in currency and the market going down another 10% we feel pretty good about our ability to improve our margins.
If we have another round of volatility we'll have to adjust again.
And we're fully prepared to do that.
And the only other thing I'd add to Jeff's is Sam is just remember that pricing increases went into effect throughout last year.
Production – fixed cost reductions were taken throughout last year so you still haven't seen the full run rate in the margins in the fourth quarter exit rate.
Inc.</span></strong> Two more quick questions if I could housekeeping related.
First off the fourth quarter your free cash flow was below where your guidance was the implied guidance.
Now I know some of that I think is pension contributions some of it is a little maybe lower CapEx but it doesn't explain the entirety of the variance Larry.
Could you help us with what happened in free cash flow in the fourth quarter? No.
I think Sam I think we guided to $600 million to $700 million.
I believe we ended up at $620 million.
So pretty close to the midpoint.
I'd say that working capital was a little bit higher but that was more due to timing in receivables than anything else.
So I think we were very happy with where we ended up and pretty much consistent with our guidance.
Inc.</span></strong> And then the last question as it relates to 2016 guidance could you help us with what your expectations are for raw materials and tax and pension and some of the other below-the-line items? I can help you with some of the below-the-line items Sam.
Tax rate in the prepared remarks we said 22% to 24%.
And then you also asked about pension.
We will not have a pension contribution this year.
We're fully funded from a funding perspective so you will not see a U.S.
contribution this year.
You'll see a small amount that will go out for the foreign plans.
Yeah.
And Sam on the cost side if you look at the walk that Larry provided for the margins I think – the way I would look at costs are we're going to have a very significant cost year this year.
And we do look at total cost which is comprised of our synergies our restructuring as well as our ongoing productivity which includes change in raw material costs.
And as we talk about – and by the way that we think that's the best way to look at it because that gives you a net number which you ought to expect to see in the P&amp;L or in the margins which is what we show.
The challenge talking about – which caused a little bit of confusion last year is when you have this volatility in currency we certainly saw lower net material costs last year.
I think we said over $100 million.
But we also had – part of that – the actual gross number was higher than that but it's offset by currency increases in markets like Brazil and Russia and so on and so forth.
So bottom line is we're going to have a big year of productivity.
If you look at the margin walk it's roughly between all those factors is about a $400 million reduction of which I would suspect net and it really depends on currency raw materials ought to be – we ought to expect the same kind of improvement that we saw this year.
And our next question will come from Bob Wetenhall with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Nice quarter Jeff and great execution.
I was hoping you guys and maybe Marc could touch on the North American market.
It looks like you guys got 3% volume.
I wanted to also understand your assumptions.
Your press release says 5% growth.
How do you think about volumes going into 2016 and with that I noticed price was also up slightly more than three points in North America? That's probably something I wasn't expecting to that extent of strength.
What's the promotional environment like and what are your expectations for volume in 2016 in North America? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Bob it's Marc.
Let me try to answer these multiple questions.
Let me actually start with first off by saying we're very pleased with our North America Q4 and I know there were some concerns out there but these results would have quiet down a lot of concerns.
Let me first of all on the units because you mentioned the 3% unit; first of all and we said that in a number of previous calls our unit shipments are not comparable to what is AM published numbers because we include a lot more now (30:31) units.
So the numbers are not fully comparable.
Having said that what you can compare is our unit growth versus our organic net sales growth so the 3% versus 6%.
And you're exactly right.
I mean that shows you just how strong our price mix was which is the full result of disciplined promotion management and finally the results of our new product introductions.
So to have that kind of a lift in such a promotional environment is an achievement we're very proud of.
Now let me put it in broader context of the fourth quarter.
Again we delivered good ex-currency revenue growth 6% record margin of 12.4% which is exactly what we said we would do drive growth and margin expansion.
What is also important to know we had ex-currency revenue growth in all our business units so Canada Mexico small domestic majors core appliances which also means we had sequential market share growth Q4 compared to Q3 which is something which as you know we've been driving for very hard.
So now with regards to your question about our expectations for next year's market as you know we guide industry to 5%.
As I also said in my prepared remarks we fully expect to grow our revenue in line or above that market assumption.
That's what we guide to and that's our expectation based on run rates which we have developed based on new product introductions.
So we're – I think we'd say very confident behind these assumptions.
Towards the – we're coming to work with a broader industry assumption of 5%.
As you know as we guided into 2015 we initially came up with 4% and we lifted to 5% 5% plus.
The final number was 6.5%.
Beginning of a year many people questioned if North America would come to these growth levels and North America as an industry did.
That is still largely driven the confidence for 5% we still do believe the housing is at best midpoint of a housing recovery in terms of cycle.
We do see consumer sentiment becoming bigger.
We do see wealth creation on the mid and lower income levels.
So all these factors if you put it in our macroeconomic model you'll have a lot of confidence behind the 5% industry growth.
Got it.
That makes a lot of sense and thanks for the detail on North America.
Kind of jump ball in terms of question I'd love to understand two things; one the margin walk between 2015 and 2016 in Europe to get to that 7% to 8% range what's your confidence in executing against plan? And putting aside the fact that we understand things change quickly in emerging markets what's the likelihood that you can actually achieve positive margin momentum in Latin America? And are you confident that Brazil will not lose money? That's a lot of stuff but if you could just take it in part that would be great.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So Bob it's Marc again.
So let me first answer Europe and Middle East and Africa.
As you know we guided at the beginning of 2015 4% to 5% and we hit exact in the midpoint.
I would say probably now some people may be surprised that we're guiding out towards 7% or 8% which as you recall that was pretty much our targets yesterday.
(33:54).
We are fully confident on that 7% to 8% and the confidence comes from we do see the benefits from restructuring synergies and ongoing cost productivity.
So which as you know when you run a business if you have a confidence in cost that gives you a lot of confidence.
It's just much more predictable than any top line assumptions.
And if you look at 2015 there was largely costs total costs driven and we know we have a momentum.
We know we have agreement on certain restructuring activities and that carries into 2016.
You will also note that our volume assumption for industry is actually not overly bullish.
It's 0% to 2%.
And frankly that magnitude between 0% and 2% is entirely driven by what happens to Russia.
So we basically we're not overly bullish on Russia.
If Russia comes around faster which we've seen in prior decades and cycles then you could see an upside versus the 2%.
But that's a big assumption right now.
But again in Europe in our view on all quarters they delivered like a clockwork and that gives us a lot of confidence for 2016 as well.
On Latin America I'm going to get back to Jeff's comments.
First of all let me underline Latin America is obviously heavily influenced by what assumption you take on Brazil industry growth and the real.
So on today's spot rate of real and with the assumption that Brazil goes down another 10% which pretty much will be consistent with what we see right now so further deterioration of a marketplace based on our already taken cost actions and price mix which we have already deployed.
We are very confident to hit that 6.5% to 7.5%.
Which is by the way it's not too far away from what we had in Q4.
So it's not like we were – from a run rate perspective it's not like we're planning for a huge step-up.
But again I want to reiterate that's a big assumption about real exchange rates.
And we've seen dramatic moves this year and it's a big assumption about the industry.
Yeah only add the color on that that Marc had was that this 10% decline is our forecast for demand for the year in Brazil.
You know if you look at the progression of decline throughout 2015 fourth quarter was the worst at almost 25%.
So as this carries over our belief is the full year probably plus or minus is minus 10%.
But by definition it will be higher in Q1 and Q2.
And we'll take our next question from Denise Chai with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Just want to go back to North America.
Could you talk a little bit about how market shares have shifted in the last year and also comment on the impact of product transition on product availability in the past year? Because I think Marc said that the new products were fully available and almost fully floored so just wondering when that's going to be resolved.
Thank you.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So Denise.
It's Marc again.
Let me try to answer that.
So first of all as I indicated in Q4 we had sequential market share growth.
On a year-over-year comparison we had a slight market share loss that's basic of a carry forward of momentum which we had from the mid-cycle.
But again the important thing is sequentially we see the business growing in the critical categories.
Now that is a very important element of this one.
To my earlier comment about product introductions as you are well aware we had a lot of product introductions the last 18 months in North America.
There was laundry there was pretty much an entire refrigeration line which was driven by energy standards.
So we had – we are behind an unusual high amount of product introductions which of course always has a certain impact on the top line.
It's not just availability.
It's just the ramp up ramp down re-flooring.
You know whenever you do that you have an impact.
But availability supply chain from ex-factory is fully restored.
We're not yet 100% completed with the flooring but it's pretty much 80% to 90% done on the major product introductions.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And just a follow-up on the realized synergies in 2015? Yeah I mean we said Denise in the prepared remarks between restructuring and synergies we had about $200 million.
It was very consistent with what we said before.
And synergies on both Europe and Chinese business came in exactly what we said.
And our next question comes from Megan McGrath with MKM Partners.
Good morning.
So just a quick follow-up on North America.
In terms of the competitive environment could you just give us an update on that? Certainly don't expect you to say that it got a lot better but was there any change? You talked a lot about the breadth versus the depth of the promotions that you saw starting last summer.
And any early indications in the early part of the year about what you're seeing there? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Megan it's Marc.
Let me try to answer.
During our last earnings call we said we had a slightly elevated promotional intensity out there in the markets and I would say but it was pretty much consistent also in Q4.
In our – in that environment we stuck to the strategy which we had for the last couple years.
We participate when we create value for our brands in our company.
That's what we've done.
So in that promotional environment which year-over-year was maybe slightly more intense we basically fully relied on our new products.
That's what drove the margin and the price mix impact in that environment.
It's hard to of course anticipate what happens in 2016 and it's way too early in the year.
But right now I would expect similar environment like the back half of 2015.
Okay.
Thanks.
That's helpful.
And then I guess I want to touch on Asia because it's the one region no one has asked about yet.
But can you talk us a little bit through this nice guidance that you have out there for the full year but 4Q did drop off.
You said you increased some expenses on marketing and other investments in the quarter.
Is there any seasonality involved that we should think about when we're modeling 2016? And could you maybe talk us through some of those investments that you made are any of those going to carry into let's say the first part of 2016 as well.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Megan it's Marc again.
Again conceptually you've got to split the Asia business into a largely India business and the China business and some other smaller business.
Our India business is in – which is by the way a publicly traded company is in very good shape strong margins steady margins and had also really strong Q4.
In China we had I wouldn't call it seasonality.
It's an anomaly.
We basically had a one-time investment in certain go to markets and particularly in certain technology investments which are largely related to introduction of new washers which come to the market in April.
So I would not factor that in in an ongoing model because we know it's largely one-time expenses.
Our next question comes from Samuel Eisner with Goldman Sachs.
Please go head.
Yeah good morning everyone.
Good morning.
So just going back to the China comments I think there was some commentary that was given there where you guys are expecting down volumes for that market.
Can you talk a little bit about how the integration of the (41:10) transaction now that you're such a large part of that market? Just kind of wouldn't that help out the overall volumes of the market? I just want to better understand what you're seeing on the ground level.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sam it's Marc.
Again China as a market as a single market from an industry perspective did not grow in 2015 and in fact it was down on the T2 level by minus 2%.
We in our prepared remarks guided towards a minus 3% for next year.
So pretty by and large similar environment in China overall.
We just don't see right now the consumer sentiment and the housing activity strong enough to hit into positive territory.
Of course that can change in that context but right now that's our assumption going into the 2016 year and that is also based on fairly recent inputs from trade partners.
So we're – that's what it is.
It's of course a change compared to two years or three years ago but I think we have a way to operate in that environment.
The integration overall is successful.
Of course there's a lot of work and as you put together different brands but it is successful.
It is on track.
And we're kind of as you see from the guidance we're guiding towards 7% to 8% for 2016 which by definition cannot only come from India.
So we anticipate also strong progress on our not only synergy from the cost side but also from the revenue synergies on the China piece of integration.
That's helpful.
And then just switching gears back to North America can you just give a comment about how inventories stand right now in the channel? What are your retailers showing? There was some chatter in the fourth quarter that there was a good amount of sell into so just curious what you guys are seeing at the retail level.
Thanks.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Sam it's Marc again.
I mean again if you take the Q4 as an industry and there are first of all there is not fully reliable sell in sell out statistics for North America so that's based on the data which we've seen and how we triangulate it you always have in Q4 in the beginning a heavy sell into the promotion periods.
If you just look at the quarter overall we do not see elevated inventory levels as the year begins.
If at all I would almost argue the opposite.
Regional inventories are not significantly elevated.
As the year begins it's a pretty normal situation.
But yes there was quite a bit of load into promotions in October and November.
And our next question comes from Jay McCanless with Sterne Agee.
Hi.
With GE potentially being sold to another buyer are you seeing any impact on the ground either in North America or in the Chinese market as that deal progresses? And if so what steps are you taking to get in front of that.
Jay this is Jeff.
You know the question about are we seeing anything in the market in either market I think the answer would be no.
The GE business you know the story.
I mean they had an agreement with Electrolux time expired it didn't go through it's clear and it's been clear for some time that General Electric would sell their appliance business.
So the global people that you would expect to look at it had plenty of time to look at it.
And obviously they wound up getting a substantially improved offer from Haier and so from that standpoint they'll go through their process and we'll know in four five six months how that's going to turn out.
But the question is have we seen any changes? No.
I mean we compete with both companies.
Haier is a very substantial competitor in China very successful and has created value doing that.
General Electric has been a very good and tough competitor in the U.S.
for forever.
So Chinese companies wanting to have a good market position in the U.S.
this is an attractive opportunity.
And they apparently agreed and that's probably why they paid the price they did.
Great and thank you for that.
The second question I have and I think you guys touched on this earlier but just with the decelerating year-over-year increase in North American units do you feel like you're on the cusp of changing that through either growth in housing starts or a pickup in renovation remodel? And I apologize if I missed it but if you all could comment on where you think unit growth should go in North America this year especially in the U.S.? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Jay it's Marc.
I wouldn't read too much into our guidance of 5% versus the 6% of which I wouldn't call that a deceleration.
The 5% is a midpoint of a spectrum which is probably you can put it 4% to 6% or maybe even 4% to 7% whatever.
And a lot is driven by the housing consumer sentiment.
So I would still refer to U.S.
is midpoint of a recovery cycle of a long-term recovery cycle.
I don't see the end of a cycle.
I don't see the deceleration.
And the 5% is not a precise number.
It's a range and it could well be that we'll see 6% at the end (46:48).
And Jay we didn't include it in this deck but I think we have it in our Investor Day site that what we outlined actually three years ago was particularly in the case of the U.S.
where the industry demand was relative to our 30-year average.
And basically the bubble of 2003 to 2005 the decline the financial recession so on and so forth.
And we kind of laid out what we thought was a reasonable path of recovery.
And to Marc's point we view we're only (47:26) at the midpoint.
And if you look at the last three years I would say our forecasts were actually pretty good plus or minus 1 point I think.
And we're still underneath a 30-year growth rate trend in the United States.
So we still have in our opinion pent-up demand as well as – every piece of the drivers of demand: replacement new housing existing home sales and discretionary are going in the right direction.
So we view it as a very positive spot.
And to Marc's point it can be 5% it can be 4% it can be 6%.
The next question comes from Ken Zener with KeyBanc Capital.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning gentlemen.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Ken.
Inc.</span></strong> Lot of slides in the deck there.
In Europe considering that with such an important acquisition and profit driver can you get – you talked about cost restructuring.
Can you get a little more granular? Is it just on the execution of the cost side that you're expanding the margins or are you actually – can you describe the perhaps in-country dynamic that you're experiencing with this larger portfolio? I mean are you able to get better positions with the key retailers in countries or what else is driving this? Because given the realization of this margin in 2016 it seems to indicate in fact you might be realizing higher margins longer term than you've guided here in that long-term guidance.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Ken it's Marc.
Let me first try to explain what happened in 2015 and then maybe give an indication for 2016 and how these dynamics come together.
If you just look at the full-year P&amp;L in Europe you realize there's – if you take up the currency impact there's a small revenue growth but the margin growth or expansion came largely from the cost side to be very straightforward.
And the cost side on the other hand yes there's some ongoing productivity coming from raw materials which in the case for Europe is largely offset through negative currency.
That's a transactional impact.
So the net-net bulk comes largely from realizing the synergies in procurement in footprint in SG&amp;A.
So if you want state of (49:47) 2015 was largely a restructuring and synergy play.
It is however important to note that the fact that we held the top line in year one in a post-merger integration is a big deal.
Because you typically would see in such a competitive environment that you're being attacked from all sides.
And we even grow it and some people ask us about the different pieces.
Even if you break down the two legacy pieces both elements grew organically which again is a big deal in year one after such a complex integration.
Now shifting gears into 2016 again the cost side are carryover benefits and certain restructuring initiatives which we have just initiated and announced.
So that just gives you an unusual high amount of confidence because you're not relying on certain raw material assumptions whatever it's in your control.
And I would say off a margin improvement and profit in Europe for 2016 it's still 70% or 80% is cost driven.
Now ultimately it comes back to the question of how much revenue growth can you drive with that brand and product portfolio? I would expect and now I'm coming back to more Jeff's point the long-term plan.
In the planning horizon 2017 2018 that's when you start seeing the revenue growth coming in.
And the simple reason for that one it just takes a while to have all these product platform integration plans because that's the most complicated process.
And you see we already put a lot of new products now in the market.
The vast majority of the new joint products basically come 2017 and 2018 and that's when you should expect the top-line growth.
Even in the interim and that's an important thing is as you know one of our biggest attractions of the (15:32) why we bought it is ultimately the strong country position.
We're number one in five of the top seven markets and (15:41) profit of Europe.
Our market share in these top five markets has held up or even expanded in the last year.
So that's a very very important achievement for us.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you for that.
And then Jeff given all the product transitions and rollouts that you had this year I mean I think in one of the conference calls one quarter or two quarters ago you said in hindsight perhaps you wouldn't have had so many moving parts at one time.
Are there any operational/executional issues that are happening in 2016 that we could be aware of that you're a little more focused on just so we don't find out that you are worried about it in hindsight? Ken if I can really simplify and give you a couple perspectives.
We did have and we talked about some very very large new product transitions which affected millions of units of volume.
Okay? We always have product transitions.
So that is not new.
And I would say if the rest of the world was somewhat stable that you wouldn't have probably even noticed the impact of the product transition problems we had last year.
But the fact of the matter is we had and the way I've described it the currency devaluation and it's part of life but it is the most impact in moving currencies we've seen ever since we track currency.
It cost us over $4 a share.
And at the same time emerging markets in general particularly Latin America it seems like a long time ago but in 2014 we had an all-time record year in Latin America.
Last year one year our earnings went down by $300 million and cash went down by $300 million.
We had record years in every other region in the world.
So it wasn't the operational challenges we had on product trends it was that on top of dealing with a massive currency issue a massive decline in demand issue and it means we had to do other things really well to still grow our earnings by 9% last year.
So let's fast-forward into this year.
And I should say we did very well on the cost side last year for a host of reasons including the synergies the restructuring raw material markets et cetera.
So coming into this year what we all have to mention is we still have big currency and demand headwinds but they're less than half the size of last year.
If things stay as we see them today we're going to have another great year of cost productivity.
And I would say we have no major known operational execution problems today like we had a year ago.
So that's I guess as clear as I could try to be to hopefully address your point.
Our next question comes from David MacGregor with Longbow Research.
Yeah congratulations on a good quarter in a tough environment.
Thanks David.
I want to just maybe pick up on a couple of other questions that have been asked and first is really just what we're talking about product availability.
Assuming that you've addressed this and you get that business back in 2016 what does that represent in terms of incremental North American revenue? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> David it's Marc.
It's hard to quantify and obviously we wouldn't want to quantify for competitive reasons.
But there is in particular in the first half of 2015 and Q3 we were impacted.
Not just by availability it's also flooring and the new product introductions and that's by definition.
Again as I said before in Q4 that was behind us.
So it's largely behind us.
But yes in total you probably have more than a point of market share.
More than a point of market share? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Okay.
Good.
Secondly just can you talk about Canadian and Mexican operations and specifically what impact weaker demand had on that 2.9% North American segment unit growth number? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah David it's Marc again.
First of all often when you look at the numbers yes the Canadian market was down 8% in Q4 and to put in context Canadian markets in the financial recession did not dip as deep as North America.
So it held up for much longer.
But obviously with consumer confidence oil the Canadian market is soft and we do expect it to be soft also going forward.
In addition to the markets – and as we in the investor meeting showed Canada used to be roughly $1 billion business for us.
That was in the old currency exchange rate.
So you have a demand side.
And on top of that the currency move for Canadian dollar has been massive.
Keeping in mind this no production in Canada so you have a full currency impact.
Having said that in context I think our team through very disciplined cost based price increase which we already had announced and executed we maintained a good margin unfortunately at much lower base.
But the margin in Canada is very intact very robust but it's just a much lower base.
Mexico is slightly different story.
The Mexican market is steady pretty much slightly down but there's not a huge downside as in Canada.
Mexico is a top line issue because also you have Mexican peso was MXN 18 it's just dramatically devalued.
And so that has obviously a negative impact on the pure revenue side.
It doesn't impact us so much on the ongoing margin side because our Mexican production is 60% local to local production or 70%.
Our next question will come from Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
Good morning.
This is Tom on for Eric.
I was wondering if you could size the savings from favorable input costs within 4Q and 2015 more specifically.
And then anything directionally you can give us on how that flowed through by segment in 2015? This is Jeff.
Actually I don't have that level of detail in front of us because our input costs we buy obviously all the time but we have contracts we have hedges so on and so forth and we have that information I just don't – we don't have it in front of us right now.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah what Jeff said is in his prepared remarks the total productivity would be 1.5 points to 2 points and we'd expect each region of the world to have productivity.
Our next question comes from Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking my question.
I just wanted to get a little more granular on a couple of things.
First off the 15% of global sales I think that you highlighted was your total emerging market's exposure.
Just wanted to get a sense was that on 2015 revenues or expected 2016 revenues? And if you could at least give a sense of a breakdown of the order of magnitude? I assume Brazil is the largest but some of the other components by country? Yeah Michael to answer your question what I would say is that that's on 2016 base the 15%.
In order of magnitude obviously Brazil would be our largest emerging market followed by China.
It would be Brazil China Russia and then India.
And it appears we have no further questions at this time.
I'll return the floor to Mr.
Chris Conley for closing comments.
Well listen everyone we appreciate you joining us today and we look forward to talking to you at our next earnings call.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's program.
Thanks for your participation.
You may now disconnect.