Good morning my name is Nicole and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Waste Management First Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Ed Egl Director Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you Nicole.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the first quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are David Steiner Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Simpson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
David will start things off with the summary of the financial results for the quarter and a review of the details of our revenue growth including price and volume trends.
Bob will cover operating costs and the financial statements.
We will conclude with questions and answers.
During their statements any comparisons made by David and Bob unless otherwise stated will be with the first quarter of 2010.
Before we get started let me remind you that in addition to our press release that was issued this morning we have filed a Form 8-K that includes the press release as an attachment and is available on our website at www.wm.com.
The Form 8-K the press release and the schedule for the release include important information that you should refer to.
During the call David and Bob will discuss earnings per fully diluted share which they may refer to as EPS and the impact certain adjustments would have on EPS.
The adjustments discussed are items management believes do not reflect our solid waste business performance and are not indicative of our results of operations.
EPS excluding certain items projected adjusted EPS and free cash flow are non-GAAP measures.
Please refer to the reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures in the Form 8-K filed today in the earnings press release footnote and schedules thereto which can be found attached to the Form 8-K and on the company's website at www.wm.com.
Additionally during the call you will hear certain forward-looking statements based on current expectations opinions or beliefs about future periods.
Those statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of these risks and uncertainties are detailed in our earnings press release this morning and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Form 10-K.
This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning approximately 1 p.m.
Eastern Time today until 5 p.m.
Eastern Time on May 12.
To hear a replay of the call over the Internet access the Waste Management website at www.wm.com.
To hear a telephonic replay of the call dial (800) 642-1687 and enter reservation code 51272844.
Time-sensitive information provided during today's call which is occurring on April 28 2011 may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Waste Management is prohibited.
Now I will turn the call over to Waste Management's CEO David Steiner.
Thanks Ed and good morning from Houston.
During the first quarter our solid waste operations performed well with strong yield performance offsetting weaker-than-expected volumes.
Our overall business earned $0.39 per diluted share with about $0.09 of impact from short-term headwind.
Year-over-year we had a negative impact of $0.02 per diluted share from our waste-to-energy operations and $0.01 per diluted share from stock option grants under our long-term compensation program.
We also had negative impacts of $0.03 per diluted share from our cost reduction initiatives and a negative $0.03 per diluted share from our growth initiatives.
Without these our earnings would have been $0.48 per diluted share which demonstrates the strength of our solid waste business.
Spending on our cost reduction initiatives will slow in the second quarter and we should begin to see year-over-year benefits in the third quarter.
Our portfolio of growth initiatives like Bagster and medical waste will negatively affect the second and possibly the third quarters but should become profitable by the end of the year.
And our waste-to-energy business will have a small negative effect in the second quarter but will begin to add year-over-year earnings growth in the third or fourth quarter.
So these headwinds should be very short term and we expect them to drive operational and earnings improvement for years to come.
During the first quarter revenue increased by $168 million or 5.7% from the prior year quarter.
This is the fifth consecutive quarter of positive year-over-year revenue comparison.
Major drivers of our revenue improvement are improved recycling volumes at higher commodity prices the continued emphasis on year-over-year yield increases and acquisitions.
Internal revenue growth from yield on our collection and disposal operations was 2.8% in the quarter.
This represents the highest yield since the third quarter of 2009 and the third quarter of sequential growth.
In the coming quarters many of our fees and surcharges will anniversary causing downward pressure on yield growth.
CPI is an important component of pricing in our municipal sector.
CPI increased about 1% for the first 3 months of 2011 consistent with our expectations but below the level we saw in the first quarter of 2010.
We had approximately a 40 basis point reduction in yield from CPI in the first quarter.
Many of our contracts adjust on July 1 so the low CPI will continue to negatively affect yield in the second half of the year.
Despite these pricing pressures we'll continue to maintain our pricing discipline and fully expect to achieve or exceed our full year yield target.
The combined internal revenue growth from yield in the industrial commercial and residential lines of our collection business was 3.3% in the first quarter.
Commercial and industrial yields were 4.1% and 3.4% respectively.
The yield component of internal revenue growth in our residential line of business was 2.3%.
Both commercial and industrial new business pricing increased compared to the first quarter of last year.
The commercial increase represents the seventh consecutive quarter of year-over-year improvement.
Our customer churns have been improving steadily over the last 3 quarters and improved to 9.5% in the first quarter of 2011.
On the volume side of the business internal revenue growth from volume declined 1.7% in the quarter a 10 basis point sequential improvement from the fourth quarter of 2010.
We had expected that volumes would be stronger in the first quarter.
However the winter weather certainly had a negative effect on volumes.
Both our commercial and residential collection lines of business saw a year-over-year volume decline of 5.6%.
The residential line of business improved 30 basis points from the fourth quarter which is the first sequential improvement in residential volumes since the fourth quarter of 2009.
Industrial volumes declined by 2.8% on a year-over-year basis which was the seventh straight quarter of sequential improvement.
By focusing on pricing we were able to overcome the declining volumes and grow income from operations and margins year-over-year in the collection line of business.
In the landfill side of the business first quarter 2011 internal revenue growth from volume improved by 1.6% compared to the first quarter of 2010.
C&amp;D volumes improved 6.4% year-over-year up from the flat volumes that we experienced in the fourth quarter.
Internal revenue growth from volume for special waste was positive 2.9% year-over-year.
As you know special waste is generally more affected by weather than other volumes so the severe winter weather had a bigger effect on this segment.
But we still see strength in the pipeline for special waste volumes and expect them to improve during the quarters.
For MSW internal revenue growth from volume was negative 6.7% year-over-year.
On the yield front all of the waste streams had positive revenue growth from yield for the first quarter.
The landfill business overcame the weather drag on volumes with strong revenue growth from yield.
And income from operations in the landfill line businesses also improved in the first quarter of 2010.
When looking at the combinations of the collection and the landfill lines of business income from operations grew 4% compared to the first quarter of 2010 and income from operations margin grew over 30 basis points.
In our waste-to-energy operations income from operation has declined in the first quarter compared to the first quarter of 2010.
The expiration of a long-term electric power capacity agreement had a $6.3 million negative effect in the quarter.
Also affecting the decline were upgrades to our acquired facility in Virginia lower electricity revenues and weather all of which are expected to improve as we progress throughout the remainder of 2011.
For the rest of 2011 we expect to have an additional $0.02 earnings per share year-over-year drag in the second quarter with the third and fourth quarters being flat to slightly positive year-over-year.
Turning to our recycling business.
Increased commodity prices and volume contributed about $0.03 of positive year-over-year earnings per diluted share in the first quarter of 2011 which was consistent with our expectations for the first quarter.
Commodity prices have increased approximately 18% when compared with last year.
We had expected prices to come down during the year but so far they've remained strong.
As prices continue to remain strong we should see about a $0.02 earnings per share benefit in each of the second and third quarters and no net effect in the fourth quarter.
With respect to solid waste volumes through the last weeks of March and the first few weeks of April we've seen some encouraging signs.
We expect to see our normal seasonal improvement during the quarter leading to steady improvement in the second and third quarters such that 2011 volume should be closer to flat when compared with the full year 2010.
Of course it's difficult to extrapolate first quarter volumes to the rest of the year particularly due to severe weather effects in the first quarter so we'll have more clarity about our volume projections after we see second quarter volumes.
So we made good progress in the first quarter and we fully expect our cost reduction program and growth initiatives to turn from headwinds to tailwinds in the second half of the year.
So with improving volumes our customer focus growth initiatives and our continued focus on operational excellence we're confident that we're on track to meet our full year adjusted earnings forecast of $2.24 to $2.30 per diluted share.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Bob.
Thank you David.
I will begin by discussing operating costs.
These costs increased by $114 million in the first quarter to 64.3% of revenue.
Cost of goods sold increased $67 million in the quarter mainly because of rebates due to higher recycling commodity prices.
These higher prices net of rebates had resulted in an increase in earnings per diluted share from our recycling operations of approximately $0.03 in the quarter.
Direct fuel costs increased approximately $27 million primarily because of a 27% increase in diesel fuel.
Subcontractor costs increased $15 million in the quarter primarily relating to the increase in special waste volume and increased fuel costs at our transfer station operations.
In 2010 we redesigned our fuel surcharge to better match changes in diesel fuel costs.
In the first quarter the redesign worked as planned as the fuel surcharge offset the increased costs of direct fuel and other fuel increases that are included in our subcontractor costs.
Maintenance costs increased $11 million due to planned maintenance projects at our waste-to-energy and our landfill-gas-to-energy facilities.
Operating costs at businesses we acquired accounted for $24 million of the increase.
Foreign currency translation for our Canadian operations accounted for an increase in operating costs of approximately $6 million.
Our SG&amp;A costs increased $31 million year-over-year and as a percentage of revenue increased 30 basis points to 12.3%.
The increased costs in SG&amp;A relate primarily to our strategic growth plans and cost reduction initiatives and expenses related to our stock option grants under our long-term compensation program.
Our growth initiatives which include medical waste and Bagster had a negative $0.03 per diluted share impact on the quarter.
We expect our growth initiatives to have a negative earnings per share impact in the second and third quarters and to be flat to slightly positive in fourth quarter.
One of our 3 long-term strategic goals is to continuously improve our operational efficiency.
During our fourth quarter conference call we told you that we had brought in outside consultants to assist us with initiatives to reduce costs and improve efficiency in areas like procurement routing [ph] and logistics and the centralization of certain functions such as dispatch.
The up-front costs for these initiatives were approximately $20 million in the first quarter.
The outside consulting costs are expected to be a negative $0.02 per share in the second quarter and a negative $0.01 per share in each of the third and fourth quarters as we internalize the work of the consultants.
The benefits from our cost reduction initiatives are expected to more than offset these costs in the third and fourth quarter and accelerate into 2012.
In summary in the first quarter we faced $0.09 of EPS headwinds.
We expect these headwinds to be approximately a negative $0.06 per share in the second quarter consisting of a negative $0.02 per share from each of our waste-to-energy operations our growth initiatives and our cost reduction initiatives.
We expect these investments will benefit the second half of the year accelerate in 2012 and will lead to sustained margin expansion.
Interest expense for the first quarter increased $9 million compared with the prior year period.
This is primarily due to higher up-front costs and usage fees on the revolving credit facility that we executed in June 2010.
On March 31 2011 our weighted average cost of debt was 5.6% and our debt-to-total-capital ratio for the quarter was 58% consistent with our target ratio of about 60%.
The floating rate portion of our total debt portfolio was 18% at the end of the quarter.
Our income tax rate as reported for the first quarter of 2011 was 35.9%.
Included in the first quarter effective tax rate are adjustments to our net deferred taxes including a $2.2 million expense related to an income tax rate increase in Illinois.
For 2011 we expect the recurring effective tax rate to be approximately 35%.
Turning to cash flow.
First quarter 2011 net cash provided by operating activities was $600 million.
This represents a 21% increase over the first quarter of 2010 and is the highest first quarter net cash provided by operating activities since the first quarter of 2006.
The increase was driven primarily by changes in our working capital.
Our capital expenditures for the first quarter were $316 million.
We still anticipate spending between $1.35 billion and $1.45 billion on capital expenditures during 2011.
Our free cash flow for the first quarter was $289 million which is $36 million better than the prior year quarter despite an increase in capital expenditures of $61 million.
This performance puts us well on the way of achieving our expected free cash flow for 2011 of between $1.25 billion and $1.35 billion.
In the first quarter of 2011 we paid $162 million in dividends and we repurchased $63 million of our common stock continuing our long-standing emphasis to return cash to our shareholders.
We also completed approximately $100 million in business acquisitions.
As we go forward with our cost reduction and growth initiatives it is encouraging to see our traditional solid waste business perform so well.
Through the dedication of hard-working employees we were able to achieve solid performance in this quarter.
And for that we thank them.
And with that Nicole let's open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Vance Edelson with Morgan Stanley.
Thanks for taking my questions.
On the C&amp;D it sounds like a good bounce back despite any weather impacts.
What's your outlook for the rest of the year and into 2012? Any feel for what the pattern might be? Yes when you look at the C&amp;D volumes obviously you also have to look at the industrial volumes.
And what we've seen over the last few quarters is fairly consistent growth in that.
Now obviously industrial also still down in the quarter but you're starting to see that they've improved quarter-to-quarter now for quite a while.
So we would fully expect to see those C&amp;D volumes at sort of positive 5% to 10% continue for the rest of the year.
Okay great.
And any update on what you see for landfill pricing as a sort of a target for this year? Do you still think mid-single digits for pricing or even higher is possible for the full year? Yes.
The first quarter our pricing was fairly consistent at landfill where it's been for the last year or two.
I would think that two things are going to help us improve that during the year.
First you got seasonality.
So as volumes improve you ought to have more opportunity for pricing.
And we've always said that sometimes high fuel costs are our friend right? We get to pass through the higher fuel costs through our fuel surcharge.
That worked very well this quarter having no net effect on the quarter.
But with our landfill being positioned in a lot of places in advantaged geographic location it now becomes a lot more expensive to drive past our landfill and to bring it to a competing landfill.
So both of those factors should help us in pricing during the course of the year.
Okay great.
And just one more question for me.
What do you feel is driving the improved recycling volumes? Do you think that's mainly cyclical as the economy gets better? Or do you discern any longer-term trends there? Yes I think -- generally the long-term trend has been that demand from Asia primarily China has been driving recycled commodity prices.
The encouraging thing is that because it's in consolidation with the mills in the United States you've actually seen the United States domestic mills requiring more recycled papers.
So for the first time that I can recall you're seeing a healthy domestic market and a healthy export market and I think that bodes well for the rest of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Hamzah Mazari with Crédit Suisse.
Just a couple questions.
The first question is on volume.
Could you give us any sense of what the underlying volume decline is if we adjust for the severe weather impact? And then also you are guiding volume flat for the year.
I'm wondering what you're assuming on seasonality within that guidance and what you believe the ramp-up looks like in volumes for the balance of the year? Right.
First off on the weather we think that the weather in the first quarter was probably about a 30 basis point drag on volumes.
For the rest of the year from a seasonality point of view when we look at last weeks of March and the first weeks of April and the lines in our industrial and in our landfill line we're seeing more weeks that have been year-over-year positive than negative.
We're still seeing some negative weeks but more weeks in positive than negative.
Frankly we're still not seeing a lot of movement in the commercial volumes.
We've been talking about that now for 3 or 4 quarters.
And so the year-over-year uptick will be driven primarily through landfill volumes and improved industrial hauls.
Okay.
And then just a question on pricing.
That came in higher than expected.
Could you give us a sense of where the upside is coming from? It's obviously not coming from CPI.
It seems like landfill pricing is still what it was a quarter or two ago.
How aggressive are you being on pricing new business? Yes that's a great question because I think it's very perceptive.
We're not seeing yet a large pop from landfill pricing and overall IRG.
Certainly CPI has been a drag.
What we've seen is that our new business pricing has been driving it fairly dramatically and then our fees and surcharges have been driving it.
So the container service fee that we instituted a couple of quarters ago the environmental fees still is driving it and that will anniversary in the second quarter.
And our administrative fee provides some benefit in the quarter.
That also anniversaries in the second quarter.
So you've got -- so what's going to have to drive it going forward so we expect to see some headwinds that I said from CPI and from the anniversary-ing of fees.
What's going to have to drive it going forward is a continued -- as you point out continued new business pricing continue to increase price increases on our commercial line of business which we've been pretty good about doing in the last 5 years and then better landfill pricing in the back half of the year.
Okay.
Just last question on capital allocation if you could just touch on how you're thinking about that.
It seems like you've backed away sort of a little bit in terms of going after any large deals over the next 14 months.
If you could just update us there.
Hamzah we don't comment specifically on anything.
But we think there's a pretty good pipeline for the acquisitions and we will continue to pursue them.
I don't see us doing anything gigantic but I do see us continuing to look at the pipeline and playing where we think we can get some value.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Levine with JPMorgan.
So your pricing number is stronger than we expected and looks like it's accelerating despite some of the headwinds that you mentioned.
Could you talk about how that came in relative to internal expectations? And given the fact that inflation is starting to move back up could you talk maybe about how that should impact pricing within your business as you move through this year into next? Should we think about factoring in like you said the fees anniversary-ing what have you? The expectation for the year I think you mentioned in the last call at 2%.
How should we think about all of that playing out in pricing trends through this year and into next? Obviously with the strong start we got in the first quarter our 2% goal we certainly believe we should exceed that for the year.
And then the way Scott that I'd sort of look at pricing for the year is that the back half of the year we're going to have the headwind of CPI and we're going to have the headwinds of anniversary-ing fees.
But then in 2012 the CPI should become a tailwind which hopefully offsets the headwinds from the anniversary-ing of the fees.
And so then you're back to sort of a normal state if you will where pricing is driven more by the traditional methods of pricing which is annual price increases on your customers at both the collection and landfill line of business.
So the back half of the year I would expect -- we're going to maintain our pricing discipline.
And so I'm not surprised by the 2.8% in the first quarter.
I wouldn't be surprised to see that come down a little bit in the remaining quarters of 2011 but then I would expect to see it go back up in 2012 as we start getting the tailwinds from the CPI benefits.
Understood.
Additionally with regard to the quarter you had some maybe unforeseen headwinds with weather and fuel which you didn't quantify in the release.
Was the first quarter result relative to your initial expectations pretty much consistent with internal expectations? Just trying to get a sense of whether we should be favoring the higher or the lower end of the guidance range at this point in time.
Yes I would say it was fairly consistent with internal expectations.
We had the $0.01 from stock options which was not built into our budget when we put our budget together.
We probably had a little bit probably $0.01 worth of weather that we didn't build into our budget.
But the rest of it was pretty much built in.
And so I would say it was consistent with our internal expectations.
Look you all can see it just like we see it which is we've got to get those cost savings in the back half of the year if we're going to make our number.
And right now we've got some fairly good visibility into that and we're pretty confident we can get it done.
Understood.
One last one if I may.
I saw you made an acquisition here of water treatment assets in the Marcellus.
Could you talk maybe about some of the -- maybe the acquisitions I think you said were $100 million in the quarter.
Maybe some color around some of the areas.
Is most of that solid waste or there's some niche areas where you're looking to increase your capabilities? Yes most of that was in recycling assets along the Atlantic Coast and solid waste acquisitions.
What you're talking about the water treatment acquisition in the Marcellus Shale was a fairly small acquisition.
But it's interesting that as we've turned the company to focus more on growth initiatives you've had people that have taken it upon themselves to find ways to grow.
And that Marcellus Shale is a great example of an area where we were already providing services disposal of drill cuttings into our landfill.
And by doing that we started to recognize there was a need for water and for water services for frac-ing fluid and we were able to get into that at a fairly low cost and to supplement our offering with our landfill offerings Pennsylvania.
So it's been a really nice success story for us.
That's a real competitive offering.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Ellis with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Wanted to first talk about -- I realize all your commentary was tied to year-over-year comparisons.
But I guess what I struggle with little bit is when I look at the fourth quarter 2010 results and the  first quarter of 2011 your pricing volume trends were fairly consistent yet you saw a pretty material sequential decline about 300 basis points sequential decline in gross margin.
So I'm just trying to get a sense presumably the costs the spending on growth initiatives and cost savings wasn't significantly different but I'm just trying to understand is there anything on a sequential basis that we should be sensitive to that drove the gross margin down other than -- and I realize weather was clearly a factor but other than the weather? The weather was certainly a part of it.
But I think you also have to look at the growth initiatives which we really spent substantial amounts on the cost side -- I'm sorry the cost initiatives.
We really started investing in January.
And so those are 100 basis points off the gross margin right there.
In our waste-to-energy business we knew we had some issues.
We're going to address it in one of our plants.
We forecasted it in our work and that was another 60 basis points of impact that we had.
So I really think that's the driving piece of it.
It's those particular items that make up the headwinds that we've already talked about.
Okay that's helpful.
Maybe you could talk a little bit about -- I know you said commercial volumes haven't picked up that much but can you talk a little bit about weight per container? Is that showing any improvement or was that really flat as well? It was close to flat.
Frankly what we've been seeing over the last 3 years is that that container weights have been generally down a couple of quarters where it's been up.
And so it was improved it was less negative but it was still just slightly negative.
Okay.
And then just on landfill pricing to make sure I'm clear I think last quarter you talked about a target of 5% to 7% for this year for the open markets and I believe contracts that are coming up for repricing if I'm not mistaken.
Can you talk about -- based on what you saw in the first quarter do you still think 5% to 7% is achievable for the year or is it going to be too much of a catch-up required to get to that target? Yes.
Jon I think as you're well aware sort of the first quarter with the volume being down it's sort of hard to be too aggressive on pricing.
But when we looked at it even in the first quarter about 2/3 of our landfills had price increases at them and nearly 50% of those price increases were over 3%.
So we made some good progress in the first quarter but we've got to make better progress.
If we want to do that 5% to 7% goal I think you're absolutely right.
We've got to make some strong progress here in the second and third quarters.
Whether we hit that for the full year or whether we hit that as a run rate I think is still an open question.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just on the volume outlook to make sure I'm clear I think -- and maybe we're splitting hairs here a little bit but I think last quarter you said that volumes for the year could be flat to slightly positive.
Just so I'm clear is the commentary now on could be close to flat was just a function of what happened in the first quarter or is that also reflective of a changed view on the second third or fourth quarter? No I think you've hit the nail right on head.
When we looked at the first quarter we were stronger on pricing than we thought we would be.
And so we said we think we'll meet or exceed the budget on pricing.
And we were weaker than we thought we'd be on volumes.
So we decided to say it's going to be closer to flat for the year obviously.
But like we said the first quarter it's hard to tell what's going on in the first quarter because of weather.
And then we also had some pretty bad weather right at the end of the year in the fourth quarter.
And so after we see the second quarter volumes we'll get a better feel for what we think the full year will be.
But we thought given the negative 1.7% in the first quarter we want to be a little bit more conservative on volumes for the year.
But again we'll know more after we see second quarter seasonality trends.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just my final question just on the core price for the year.
And I appreciate the commentary around the effects of CPI and then anniversary of the fees.
Can you just help us to sort of understand holding your current prices constant in terms of whatever you've achieved year-to-date what is going to be sort of the stair step impact of the anniversary of the fees and then the CPI resets on July 1? If you can help us understand how that flows through.
Yes so when you look at our fees there are 3 primary fees that we have.
We've got our environmental fee which went up last year and so it will anniversary starting in June.
We got about an $11 million benefit from that in the first quarter.
We don't expect that to be a benefit in the back half of the year could be even slightly negative but basically flat to the back half of the year.
We've got our administrative fee which gave us an $8 million benefit in the first quarter.
And again that anniversaries in the second quarter so we expect to get no benefit of that from that.
And then we got our new container service fee which was $11 million benefit in Q2.
We'd expect to see roughly that amount in the remaining quarters because that was not one that we instituted last year.
So net-net you're looking at sort of a $10 million to $15 million drag to pricing from the anniversary-ing of the fees.
And then just on the CPI? Jon on the CPI what we've seen obviously is CPI going up a little bit.
But most of those July 1 contracts actually price off of March-to-March timing right? And so you'd say you're not going to get the full benefit of the March-to-April quarter increase in CPI because they don't -- on July 1 they don't trigger off off July 1 CPI right? So what you'll see is that in the back half of this year we won't see a benefit from CPI.
In fact we'll still see a little bit of a drag if you use March-to-March April-to-April type CPI.
We'll start to see that benefit on the contracts that reprice on January 1 2012.
So that's why CPI will be a drag in 2011 and turn in hopefully to a tailwind in 2012.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Hoffman with Wunderlich Securities.
Can you just dig a little deeper into the waste-to-energy data because I'm struggling a little bit based on the charts you've provided.
Revenues were actually up year-over-year.
You show in your yield calculation flat from a disposal standpoint flat from an energy standpoint yet it's a drag.
So this has to be a cost issue.
I'm trying to understand what's happening in the costs.
There's 3 components Michael.
First is the loss of the capacity plant payment and that was more of a revenue issue than a cost issue.
But then we had additional repairs and maintenance that we accelerated into the first quarter of 2011 for the plant we bought in Portsmouth Virginia last year.
It was work that needed to be done.
We talked about this on the fourth quarter that the maintenance hadn't been done in that plant for quite a while and just catching that up turned out to be more expensive than we thought.
It's not cost we won't spend some day it's just cost we had to move up until now.
And then we had some timing of other repair and maintenance operations that moved into this quarter.
And that's why we expect in the second half of the year it won't be quite as much of an issue.
Okay that's what I thought was going to be the answer.
So you pulled forward a lot of maintenance.
Yes that's right.
Okay.
And then the stock options that was a negative $0.01 in 1Q.
How do I think about the options layering it out for the rest of the year? That should be it.
Michael that hit relates to the fact that under our option plan -- and by the way we have a bit more mix.
We changed our mix of options versus performance shares to put more into options.
And this is silly but the retirement provision in our option plan allows those people who are retiring and eligible to vest immediately and you have to take the hit immediately.
To continue that.
To continue that.
But even though -- because it allows us to continue vesting even after they retired.
I -- first I'm a beneficiary of that so I should both feel bad and good about it.
But anyway that's really the cause of it.
And once that's booked you don't have any other continuing impact on it.
Okay.
So you've taken your onetime hit for this year and do we think about that as a first quarter event kind of going forward? Yes it will be -- really only if the mix changes.
Should be the same thing next year unless we decide to change the retirement provision.
One of us is in favor of it.
The CPI help me a little bit here.
Everybody is talking about CPI but you all are actually talking about this more negatively than everybody else is.
There's a more positive bend on CPI from overall in the market but then strictly specifically related to your peers.
So I'm having a -- I mean there's no question we're seeing some inflation and I'm having a little trouble why you were counting it as a negative at this point.
There's absolutely no doubt Michael that we will see a benefit from CPI.
It's just a matter of when do you see the benefit.
And what you're seeing is CPI going up in the last couple of months.
But again our contracts don't use current CPI.
They -- basically the June -- most of our contracts are June 1 -- I'm sorry July 1 January 1 and the July 1 contracts will use CPI generally on a March-to-March April-to-April basis.
And there you're seeing more in line with 1% 1% to 2% type CPIs.
So year-over-year it will continue to drag in the second half of the year.
But the better CPI that we're seeing today will end up going into our repricing in January of next year.
So we'll get the benefit it's just a matter of when.
We won't get it in the back half of the year.
We'll start to get it in the first quarter of 2012.
Okay.
And then help me get comfortable with why you have such confidence that the $0.03 drag for costs becomes $0.02 and goes to maybe $0.01 and then 0 and then it's additive going into '12...
Michael let me let me...
Just one second -- I mean for a long time we've heard Waste Management talk about investing to save and it's hard to see the save.
We've seen the investing but help us get comfortable why you really believe that.
Yes Michael that's a very good question.
I was going to clarify a little bit.
The $0.01 that we talked about that are -- will be going through SG&amp;A the benefits will be going through operating expense primarily in this year.
And some of them will go through SG&amp;A but mostly it will go through operating expense.
And we do expect the benefits to be seen starting toward the end of the second quarter and well into  the -- and to be relatively significant in the third and fourth quarter.
Here's why we believe it.
The 2 areas we're focusing on primarily -- there's a lot of areas we're focusing at.
The 2 are procurement and the routing logistics side of the business.
With procurement it's pretty easy to see where the opportunities are.
And once you start the process of renegotiating contracts and getting through that whole effort you can see that the benefits are going to come and we have good visibility to that.
So that one we're quite comfortable with and we think there's a significant opportunity there.
In the other area the routing and logistics we expect there will be some benefit this year.
We're spending a little bit more in the second half on that than we will with procurement.
The nice thing about procurement is once you've gotten it going you internalize it pretty quickly and you take it from there and you don't really need to have the consulting costs to help.
On the routing and logistics that's going to take a little bit more time.
We've already started the process of taking a redesigned -- or the effort to taking our redesigned processes supported by technology into one area one market area where we're about to begin to roll it out in a second market area.
Because of the complication of it we're taking time to do it.
We found that just putting a new technology on a truck isn't enough unless you really take the time to retrain people to use the information and change the processes.
And that's just going to take a little longer.
But that gives us comfort when that will take us into next year the procurement benefits will continue the routing and logistics benefits will continue.
And then the third area we talked about was consolidating certain functions.
And in order to do that you got to go through a process redesign pick a location find the right people and then staff that function.
And that's something that will take a couple of years to me a good 12 to 18 months of organized and do.
So it will take a little longer for those things to get into to see the benefits.
But the pieces from the procurement and some of the others you will see pretty quickly.
And Michael the sort of way I look at it is as we look at the downturn with the decreasing volumes frankly I'd been extremely impressed on the costs side on how our folks have been able to flex down costs.
And when -- as Bob talked about when you look at procurement and the logistics department they've done a great job at flexing down costs and generally maintaining margins increasing margins year-over-year every year since I've been here even though we've had declining volumes.
But having said all that you get to a point where you're not getting as much traction here.
As Bob talked about the onboard computers we were getting benefits from that.
But you got -- sometimes you have to bring in sort of outside eyes to take a look at it and show you some new ways to do things.
And that's exactly what we've done here.
It's been very good.
We're seeing some really good progress.
And then ultimately it becomes the way you do business and you get rid of those outside eyes.
And so that's the process we're going through right now.
Obviously it takes some investment to do that but we're counting on that to being a fairly quick payback in 2011 and then accelerating into 2012.
So you'll see  2 things in the second half of the year.
You'll see the consulting costs coming down you'll see the benefits picking up.
Okay.
And then I know you -- this isn't a stated out-the-market goal it's an internal one but you have this vision of being at 9% SG&amp;A margins by the end of 2012.
There's a lot of room between the lip and the cup on that at this point.
Yes there is Michael.
You're right.
There's a of lot of work to do.
I mean you can't be just growing your way to that.
This is something...
Michael you got -- we did some analysis on that and what we got to do -- we got to assume that our sales group through their customer focus growth effort will be able to grow revenue to keep their share of the costs down at a certain level that fits the 9% SG&amp;A run rate going forward.
We gotta assume our growth initiatives will do the same thing.
And they've got plans that tell us that they're working on plans to get to that.
On the G&amp;A side we've got to take a fair amount of costs out and you don't do that without the efforts we're going through right now.
And then on the growth side I mean you're losing money right now.
I get it you're investing but you're losing money.
You're losing money at a tune of -- depending on what your tax issue something in the $75 million to $100 million a year.
Are there revenues at this juncture offsetting that or is this all investing? I mean serial revenues not serious revenues not a little bit of revenues.
Yes I know there's revenue but not enough to offset it right? I mean -- and so what you've got when you look at the two primary growth initiatives that we focus on Bagster and medical waste what you've got in Bagster is huge growth rates.
I mean we grew the number of bags sold in March.
There were about 24 000.
That was over 100% increase from last year.
The problem is that you've got to spend a lot of advertising dollars to get customer awareness.
And that basically what drags down Bagster is the fact that you've got to get that customer awareness built up.
As you build volume obviously that helps.
And then as you get more market awareness ultimately you won't need to spend as much on marketing.
And then on the medical waste side the investments we've made have been mostly in building out infrastructure.
And then once you build out infrastructure you've got to add salespeople in order to go and get revenue.
And it's a fairly long-cycle sale in the medical waste side.
So both of those don't have enough revenue to offset those sort of start-up costs.
Okay.
And then 2 last questions.
The last time gas prices got really high you clearly had a compression on the consumer activity.
What's your sort of feel about that? And admittedly that was in the middle or at the start of the recession but what do you feel about it today? We're on the backside of this recession but gas prices are high.
Yes it's interesting.
You all see the headlines just like we see the headlines.
I've been surprised that with gasoline prices as high as they are there hasn't been as much talk about it.
I mean in other words I think the last time it happened there was the initial shock because it really hadn't happened before.
And now I think people are pretty used to gasoline whether $3 per gallon -- at $3 with it right? And so obviously I think all American businesses have to be concerned about high fuel applied prices dampening the economy.
Frankly for us I think there's sort of a sweet spot in there between roughly $3.50 a gallon of gasoline where frankly it's not so high that we can't recover it through our fuel surcharge and customers don't complain about that.
Yet as we've talked about before our smaller local competitors that don't have fuel surcharge are just going to have 1 choice or 2 choices: make less money or increase prices.
That's a good thing.
And then as the price of diesel goes up if they're going to drive by our landfill we basically price our landfill by figuring out what's the cost and the next best alternative.
And all of sudden the next best alternative becomes a lot more expensive at higher diesel prices.
So I think you've hit the nail right on the head.
My concern is not that it's going to impact our business because frankly I think the impact to our business are pretty good.
My bigger concern would be that it would have an impact on the larger economy.
And so far I think people have been a little bit immune to the higher prices let's hope it continues.
Our investment in the natural gas fleets CNG have been helpful to us.
Right.
last question rates are about as low as we're probably ever going to see in our lifetime again.
Is there something you can or should be doing re the balance sheet that could just take advantage of driving your overall costs to your balance sheet down? Hey it's a wonderful idea.
We've always -- we've put in some swaps this quarter to take advantage of it about $600 million in notional value.
And we'll continue to take a look at that.
We aren't going to add that just because it's cheap.
We need to have a reason to do it but we certainly will look at it all the time.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Fisher with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Actually just following up on the last question on the fuel-related thing and landfill pricing.
I noticed your transfer station revenues have been weaker in some of the other lines.
Is that partially just the longer-haul waste maybe staying closer to home and does that give an opportunity as you think you've touched on to price up more of your in-town if you will landfills? Yes it's interesting that you say because I think you're absolutely right.
We've seen the costs go up there.
But for the first time in a long time we've actually started to see some positive pricing at the transfer station level.
So generally the transfer stations have almost been viewed as a pass-through.
A couple of years ago we got folks that focus on them as more of a cost center and a profit center and I think you're seeing the results of that.
Inc.</strong> I'm seeing pricing there.
And then on the surcharge you touched on that as well.
I guess based on where fuel is now and be up another -- that your list surcharge if you will on collection would be up another couple of hundred basis points in Q2.
And I know you've done a great job getting a surcharge through but is there any pushback say in commercial on the acceptance of that? I mean any churn related to that at all? No.
I mean we have seen virtually no noise on pushbacks from the fuel surcharge.
Now interestingly one of the things we have seen is that some of our both national and local competitors have been out offering new business pricing with no fuel surcharge.
I gotta tell you that's going to be a tactic they're going to regret the next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
I want to go back on the growth initiatives and I think David what you said is you're counting on volume recovery to get the Bagster and medical waste to positive contribution at least at the EPS line.
But it appears that when you aggregate some of the macro comments that that's more of a challenge than maybe it appears.
Could you maybe just comment on what needs to happen for your forecast to be achieved? Yes on the Bagster side I think you're right.
You have to see activity.
And one of the things that we saw when we first looked at this Bagster opportunity was with the new housing starts down you're going to have more people doing remodeling right? And so that's the perfect opportunity for Bagster.
And so I'm not certain that Bagster is as much tied in to the overall economy as for example our typical roll-off hauls.
Because as you see fewer people buying homes or constructing homes your roll-off hauls go down.
But what that means is that you've got to remodel your current home and that should drive Bagster sales up.
On the medical waste side it's not as tied to the economy frankly as it is tied to getting the salesforce in place and getting them through the long cycle of sales right? In other words you build infrastructure and so that costs you money and that has costs.
And then you add salespeople and that add costs.
And if your sales cycle is three to six months on the medical waste side you're going to suffer those costs before you start seeing revenue.
And so we've been adding salespeople.
We continue to add salespeople in medical waste.
We need to see them starting to generate enough revenue to pay for themselves if you will because of the long sales cycle in medical waste.
That takes a little bit longer.
But are you seeing -- I mean there's six months basically left to really hit the number I guess.
But are you seeing the sales drive some incremental volume here on the medical waste side to support what is probably at least $0.01 or $0.02 of that growth initiative attributable to medical waste? Yes we just picked up a bunch of hospitals from a large hospital chain.
That comes onboard in the first and through the second quarter.
So that's going to add revenue.
We've had quite a few successes on the medical waste side out in the West Coast and the East Coast and so -- but those are customers that were adding basically in the first and second quarters.
So you've got -- you should have some additional revenue generation.
Frankly it's been a little bit slower than we expected because we've got a competitor out there that's pretty fierce in doing whatever they need to do to retain customers.
But that too will pass and we think that medical waste will be a great business for us.
And then on Bagster clearly what we've seen year-over-year is over 100% growth on sales and over 200% growth on pickups.
And so we're pretty confident that we'll see improvement there.
Now I will tell you that in my mind the back half of the year is a heck of a lot more focused on the cost reduction initiatives than it is the growth initiatives.
Remember what we said about the growth initiatives is that they're going to continue to be negative in the second and third quarter and sort of flat to maybe slightly positive in the fourth quarter.
So we're not banking the back half of the year on our growth initiative.
We're banking the back half of our year on the cost reduction initiatives.
Okay.
To that point then profit center versus cost center when you look back a couple of quarters and including this quarter Q4 may have been the exception of 2010.
Your cost of goods cost of sales rate of increase is greater than the revenue.
And so while I know there's a lot of moving parts here I'm wondering if you're moving fast enough on the cost side given what you've seen in the economy and helping that gross margin story.
Are we moving fast enough? We think so and certainly what we're trying to do here.
So I think that's purpose of the effort.
You go back a couple of quarters and you could see the significant cost reductions that we've had on the operating side.
And as David said as time goes on those get harder and harder to do and you need to find something new.
So we're going through these cost reduction initiatives.
And now we do think that it's time to do it.
And when you look at the fourth quarter and the first quarter you've also got to recognize that we had sort of a mix issue right? And when you look at this quarter for example on special waste only being positive roughly 3% that's one of our highest margin businesses right there.
And so -- and the same with the other landfill volumes in the commercial line of business.
So you've got a little bit of mix that I think was driven more by weather.
And so between that and what Bob talked about I think you should see that normalize as we go through the seasonal uptick.
Your next question comes from the line of Jerry Barmore with First Analysis.
I was hoping to get a little more detail on the redesigned fuel surcharge you mentioned in your opening remarks.
Can you tell us a little bit about what that involves? Is that something that is currently fully implemented or is it being phased in over time? And as you look ahead to future quarters would you expect to be as effective in offsetting any spikes in diesel costs as it was in Q1? We redesigned it mid-year last year so it's fully rolled out.
And all we did was -- in the redesign was make sure we got better coverage as fuel prices went up so our surcharge followed more quickly.
And so it's working.
It's working just the way we expected it to the way we redesigned it.
And I expect that as fuel prices adjust throughout the rest of the year it will adjust as quickly.
There are no further questions at this time.
Are there any closing remarks? No.
Thank you all for joining us.
We think we had a very solid start to the year.
We expect that to continue into the second quarter obviously with acceleration in the back half of the year.
I'm very confident that we've got the right people in place and the right ideas in place to see that happen.
So we look forward to the rest of 2011.
Thank you for participating in today's Waste Management First Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference.
This call will be available for replay beginning approximately 1 p.m.
Eastern Standard Time today through 11:59 p.m.
Eastern Standard Time on Thursday May 12 2011.
The conference ID number for the replay is 51272844.
The number to dial for the replay is 1 (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Nicole and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Waste Management Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Ed Egl Director Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Nicole.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are David Steiner Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Simpson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
David will start things off with a summary of the financial results of the quarter and a review of the details of our revenue growth including price and volume trends.
Bob will cover operating costs and the financial statements.
We will conclude with questions and answers.
During their statements any comparisons made by David and Bob unless otherwise stated will be with the second quarter of 2010.
Before we get started let me remind you that in addition to our earnings press release that was issued this morning we have filed a Form 8-K that includes the press release as Exhibit 99.1 and is available on our website at www.wm.com.
The Form 8-K the press release and the schedule for the release include important information that you should refer to.
During the call David and Bob will discuss earnings per fully diluted share which they may refer to as EPS.
Please note that projected adjusted EPS and free cash flow are non-GAAP measures.
Please refer to the reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures in the earnings press release footnote in the schedules thereto which can be found attached to the Form 8-K and on the company's website at www.wm.com.
Additionally during the call you will hear certain forward-looking statements based on current expectations opinions or beliefs about future periods.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of these risks and uncertainties are detailed in our earnings press release this morning and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Form 10-K.
Please note that our Form 8-K filed earlier this morning also include a copy of our press release announcing our acquisition of Oakleaf.
You should be aware that projected EPS free cash flow and all other forward-looking statements except those specifically pertaining to the Oakleaf transaction do not incorporate any benefits or costs associated with the Oakleaf transaction.
For information on additional risks and uncertainties pertaining to the Oakleaf's transaction please see the press release filed as Exhibit 99.2 to our Form 8-K.
This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning approximately 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today until 5:00 p.m.
Eastern Time on August 11.
To hear a replay of the call over the Internet access the Waste Management website at www.wm.com.
To hear a telephonic replay of the call dial (800) 642-1687 and enter reservation code 73675301.
Time sensitive information provided during today's call which is occurring on July 28 2011 may no longer be accurate at the time of the replay.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Waste Management is prohibited.
Now I will turn the call over to Waste Management's CEO David Steiner.
Thanks Ed and good morning from Houston.
During the second quarter we earned $0.50 per diluted share.
A number of things in the quarter went just as we expected.
As previously discussed we had about $0.06 of combined earnings per share headwinds from our waste energy operations our growth initiatives and our cost reduction programs.
In the back half of the year we expect these collective headwinds to abate and for our cost reduction efforts to begin to add to earnings.
However in the quarter a few things did not go as we expected.
We had a $0.04 reduction in earnings per share from increased maintenance from repair costs legal items and risk management.
The legal and risk management items are second quarter issues but the maintenance increase is primarily due to higher commodity prices.
So we'll likely see higher maintenance costs in the back half of the year.
Our revenue growth from yield was slightly below expectations for the quarter and our revenue growth from volume was lower than our expectations.
With respect to yield we're taking immediate and significant pricing actions to increase our yield.
With respect to volumes we continue to move forward with our customer focused growth initiatives and the transaction that we announced today to purchase Oakleaf will certainly accelerate those efforts.
We're pleased that during the second quarter revenue increased by $189 million or 6% from the prior-year quarter.
This is the sixth consecutive quarter of positive year-over-year revenue comparison.
Higher commodity prices improved recycling volumes acquisitions and year-over-year yield increases contributed to the revenue growth.
While internal revenue growth from yield continues to provide positive revenue growth we're not satisfied with the results for the second quarter.
Internal revenue growth from yield and our collection and disposal operations was 1.6% in the quarter and 2.2% year-to-date through June 30.
The combined internal revenue growth from yield in the industrial commercial and residential lines of our collection business was 2% in the second quarter.
Commercial and industrial yields were 3.2% and 1.3% respectively.
Yield in our residential line of business was 0.9%.
At the beginning of the year we noted that the residential line of business was becoming more competitive.
Local regional and national companies have become more aggressive on price.
Municipalities are also looking for price concessions so although yield remains positive we do not expect significant increases in the residential yield.
Our price increases to customers were right on plan but mix issues had about 60 to 80 basis points of negative effect on yield in the quarter which is much higher than we've seen in the recent past.
The mix issues were most common in our southern group where for example in our franchise markets we saw a dramatic shift in mix from higher-priced permanent roll-off to a lower-priced temporary roll-off.
So looking at yield without mix we would have been over 2% yield.
Our pricing actions in the second half of the year should add about 80 to 100 basis points to yield of course offset by any continuing mix issues.
Another factor affecting our yield has been rollbacks of our price increases.
In our commercial line of business we implemented significant price increases to our customers in the 6% to 7% range.
This level of price increase has been the norm over the last 5 years of Waste Management.
Local haulers often offer new business prices substantially below our prices.
But lately we've seen our regional and national competitors aggressively reduce prices to obtain volumes.
We had to take action to retain profitable customers.
And in the second quarter we saw the highest level of price rollbacks since prior 2004.
But the bottom line earnings benefit of increasing our yield continues to exceed earnings benefit you can get from purchasing volumes at low prices.
So we will continue to maintain our pricing discipline even in the face of aggressive discounting by our competitors.
Despite these pricing pressures we maintained customer churn at about 10% in the second quarter a 60 basis point improvement from the same quarter in the prior year.
On the landfill yield front all of the waste streams had positive revenue growth from yield during the second quarter continuing the trend that we saw in the first quarter.
On the volume side of the business internal revenue growth from volume declined 1.7% in the quarter which is flat compared to the first quarter of 2011.
If you exclude the volumes associated with the Gulf Coast cleanup efforts in 2010 volume would have declined 1.1% in the quarter.
Although we saw a good seasonal uptick in volumes in the first few weeks of April volumes had a soft patch in May and June mirroring the dip in the U.S.
economy.
Our commercial collection line of business saw a year-over-year volume decline of 4.9% and the residential line of business saw a 4.2% decline year-over-year.
Both of these collection lines improved sequentially from the first quarter.
Industrial volumes declined by 3.6% on a year-over-year basis.
In the landfill side of the business second quarter 2011 internal revenue growth from volume improved by 1.1% compared to the second quarter of 2010.
Internal revenue growth from volume for special waste was positive 8.1% year-over-year.
This is an increase sequentially from the positive 2.9% internal revenue growth from volumes that we saw in the first quarter.
And we still see strength in the pipeline for special waste volumes.
C&amp;D volumes declined 7.8% year-over-year and MSW internal revenue growth from volumes was negative 7.5% year-over-year.
Income from operations in the collection line of business improved slightly during the second quarter when compared to the same quarter last year.
We increased our income from operations despite the declining volumes and increasing cost inflation in the price of tires lubricants and steel parts.
These maintenance-related costs have risen between 10% and 40% from the same quarter of 2010 reflecting the worldwide increase in commodity prices.
As we expected income from operations in our waste-to-energy line of business declined in the second quarter compared to the second quarter of 2010 by $0.02.
The expiration of a long-term electric power capacity agreement in South Florida had a negative $6.6 million effect in the quarter.
Also affecting the decline were upgrades to our acquired facility in Virginia and increased costs for fuel and chemical usage.
For the rest of 2011 we expect the third and fourth quarter to be flat year-over-year for our waste-to-energy business and for earnings to begin to increase in the first quarter of 2012.
Turning to our recycling business increased commodity prices and volume contributed about $0.03 of positive year-over-year earnings per diluted share in the second quarter of 2011 which is similar to the first quarter.
Commodity prices have increased approximately 25% when compared with the same quarter last year.
If prices continue to remain strong we expect to see about a $0.03 to $0.04 benefit for the second half of the year.
With respect to solid waste volumes we certainly expect to see stronger seasonal improvement during the second quarter.
Landfill volumes have remained positive while the collection volumes have continued to show weakness.
One positive in our collection business is that is service increases have exceeded decreases for the second consecutive quarter.
Of course in the third and fourth quarter we'll have to overcome the increase in volume that we saw last year from the Gulf Coast cleanup which added about 1.7% to volumes in the third quarter and about 0.8% in the fourth quarter.
Volumes looked slightly better in July.
But given our weak first half volumes we now expect to see volumes in the negative 1.5% to negative 2.5% range for the full year.
In response to the current business environment and our outlook for volumes we've instituted yield improvement and cost containment plans.
From a yield point of view in order to strengthen our pricing in the second half of 2011 we've increased our environmental fee and accelerated our price increase programs.
By doing this we expect to be able to achieve our goal of 2% yield for the full year.
We've also implemented a cost containment program to rein in on increasing costs.
This program includes reducing travel and entertainment eliminating discretionary spending and eliminating certain positions.
We estimate that controlling these costs will add approximately $30 million to $40 million of income from operations when compared with the third and fourth quarters of 2010.
Of course we also realize that you have to spend some short-term money to get long-term benefits.
And we will continue to invest in system upgrades our innovation and optimization programs and customer-focused growth.
We believe that incurring these costs today will ensure that we're a stronger company in the future.
But we also have to be mindful of the present conditions and cut costs wherever we can.
For the remainder of the year we expect recycling commodity prices to remain strong and for our waste-to-energy operations to achieve earnings similar to 2010 second half earnings.
Our cost programs and growth initiatives will continue to progress but we expect to see weaker volumes in the second half than we originally planned.
Consequently we now project full year adjusted earnings of between $2.14 and $2.18 per diluted share.
Finally today I'm excited to announce the acquisition of Oakleaf the largest waste broker in the United States with annualized revenues of about $580 million.
This acquisition provides us an opportunity to add a significant amount of collection and disposal volumes through our systems.
In our discussions with Oakleaf we also recognize that they have some compelling value propositions that they can provide to customers particularly in the commercial property and food and retail segments.
It's similar to what we're doing in those segments through our customer-focused growth efforts.
We expect that their excellent sales management and service teams will greatly increase our penetration in those markets by providing value-added environmental solutions to customers.
At the same time we believe we'll be able to benefit both their current customers and their extensive vendor hauler network to create a win-win situation.
The Oakleaf transaction provides great value and great opportunities for waste management.
We look forward to our new partnership and we welcome the Oakleaf team to Waste Management.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Bob.
Thank you David.
I will begin by discussing operating costs.
These costs increased by $144 million in the second quarter to 63.9% of revenue.
The biggest contributor was cost of goods sold which increased $95 million in the quarter mainly because of rebates due to higher recycling commodity prices and volumes.
Note that these higher commodity prices and volumes net of rebates resulted in an increase in our earnings per diluted share from our recycling operations of approximately $0.03 in the quarter.
Direct fuel costs increased approximately $39 million primarily because of a 33% increase in price per gallon of diesel fuel.
Subcontractor costs increased $6 million in the quarter primarily relating to the increased fuel costs at our transfer operations.
In the second quarter fuel surcharge revenue continued to offset the increased cost of direct fuel and fuel increases included in subcontractor costs.
Maintenance costs increased $17 million primarily related to the higher costs for parts and supply tires and lubricants at our collection and landfill operations.
As David said we have seen prices for these items increased between 10% and 40% year-over-year generally in line with prior commodity prices.
Operating expenses increased $24 million due to acquisitions made within the last 12 months.
And foreign currency translation for our Canadian operations accounted for an increase in operating costs of approximately $8 million.
SG&amp;A costs increased $37 million year-over-year and as a percentage of revenue increased 50 basis points to 11.4%.
The increased costs in SG&amp;A primarily relate to our strategic growth plans and our cost reduction initiatives and are in line with what we discussed on our previous conference calls this year.
Our growth initiatives which include medical waste and Bagster had a negative $0.03 per diluted share impact on the quarter.
When we gave guidance for the year we described the initiatives to reduce costs and improve efficiencies in areas like procurement routing and logistics and the centralization of certain functions.
We spent approximately $19 million on these initiatives in the second quarter consistent with our expectation.
We are now starting to see positive traction in procurement where we have $5 billion in spend that we can go after.
Given the positive results that we have seen late in the second quarter we feel confident that we will see the benefits in the third and fourth quarters that will more than offset the full year cost of these initiatives.
We also expect that in the second half of 2011 the consulting costs for these initiatives will decline by $22 million.
The remaining SG&amp;A costs associated with these initiatives will support future revenue growth and will reduce operating expenses.
Interest expense for the second quarter increased $3 million compared with the prior year.
On June 30 2011 our weighted average cost of debt was 5.4% and our debt-to-total-capital ratio for the quarter was 57.7% consistent with our target ratio of about 60%.
The floating rate portion of our total debt portfolio was 18% at the end of the quarter.
During the second quarter we amended our $2 billion revolving credit facility significantly reducing the cost of the facility and extending its term to May 2016.
The credit markets had improved significantly since we executed our agreement in June 2010 and we view this as an opportunity to meaningfully reduce our future interest cost.
We estimate that we should save approximately $5 million in interest expense during the second half of 2011.
Our income tax rate as reported for the second quarter of 2011 was 34.5%.
For 2011 we expect the recurring effective tax rate to be approximately 35%.
Turning to cash flow.
Second quarter 2011 net cash provided by operating activities was $478 million.
This was flat compared to the second quarter of 2010.
Our capital expenditures for the second quarter were $280 million $60 million higher than the second quarter of 2010 and consistent with our plan to increase capital expenditures in 2011.
We still anticipate spending between $1.35 billion and $1.45 billion on capital expenditures during 2011.
Our free cash flow for the quarter was $206 million which was $69 million less than the prior-year quarter largely due to an increase in capital expenditures of $60 million.
We still expect free cash flow for 2011 of about $1.25 billion.
In the second quarter of 2011 we paid $161 million in dividends and we repurchased $105 million of our common stock continuing our long-standing emphasis on returning cash to our shareholders.
We also completed approximately $58 million in business acquisitions.
Now we believe that the actions we are taking to grow and to optimize our operations including the acquisition of Oakleaf are the right actions.
And with the help of our employees the best in the business we will begin to see the results of those actions in the second half of this year and into 2012.
And with that Nicole let's open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Hamzah Mazari with Crédit Suisse.
The first question is just surrounding pricing.
Maybe if you could give some color.
Is the price discounting you're seeing from regionals broad-based? Or are you seeing that more in certain markets? And then what gives you confidence that the 80 bps to 100 bps of price actions that you're taking are going to materialize? Because it seems like the mix are towards temporary roll-off.
It's not changing.
It seems like the rollbacks likely are not changing and it seems like we're not expecting any incremental volume upticks here which were -- maybe help pricing.
If you could just add some color there.
Sure and I think you're exactly right Hamzah.
The mix issues you know they were more dramatic at 60 to 80 basis points this quarter than they've been in the past.
And frankly we don't see those offsetting.
And so what we need to do is we'll get that 80 to 100 basis points of benefit from the actions we're taking.
And hopefully that more than offsets the mix issues.
Now obviously if the mix issues get worse in the back half of the year and you can't predict the mix it's a problem.
If they were to get worse in the back half of the year obviously that would have more of an effect on that 100 basis point improvement.
The first part of the question is interesting.
I think everybody recognizes that we've generally been the price leader in the markets that we serve.
And in the past what we've seen is that the regional and national competitors that basically drafted off of our price actions and all the rises all the tides lifted the rising boats.
But what we've always seen sort of pockets of places where I would say there wasn't as much pricing discipline.
Over the last couple of quarters what we've seen is that those pockets have expanded to where it looks to us like it's virtually in every one of our markets that we're seeing folks that aren't drafting on our pricing actions anymore.
They're taking actions that are designed more to get volume than to draft on our pricing actions and that's become pretty widespread throughout our markets obviously as the economy hasn't improved.
Now the reality is that you get -- you can never get as much benefit from volume as you can from pricing.
All the pricing falls to the bottom line but the volume doesn't.
And so we continue to recognize that the trade-off is positive.
But the trade-off is positive.
We've been raising prices on our current customer base where we've seen the deterioration.
Again as you pointed out it's frankly in the pricing rollbacks in order to maintain our customers that are under attack and in the mix which obviously we don't have any control over.
So if we see sort of the 20 to 40 basis points of mix in the back half of the year offset by the 80 basis points to 100 basis points of pricing action that's how you get back to our 2% yield.
Okay.
And then just on the Oakleaf transaction.
What kind of synergies are you targeting? Assuming that $80 million number is all synergies and what buckets do you think those will come from? And does this transaction change any kind of your return of cash to shareowners? How should we think about that? Yes it shouldn't affect the return of our cash to the shareholders.
And from a synergy point of view certainly there are synergies that will be obtained in the combination.
But the primary driver of value here is the ability to manage the waste volumes that they're collecting from the customers.
And so very little of the benefit comes from synergies.
The primary driver of value here will be managing that network.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Levine with JPMorgan.
So looking for maybe a little bit more color on the pricing subject.
It's a pretty big shift.
It seems like within a relatively short period of time.
So just maybe if you can provide a little bit more color on the types.
I mean it seems regionally you're seeing more competition everywhere.
But is it certain types of markets? Is it the urban markets? Or is it the more or less populated regions? Is it more within particular lines of business where you're starting to see competition pick-up? Any additional color there would be helpful.
Yes.
And Scott like I said before the interesting thing that's happened over the last couple of quarters is that it has become more widespread throughout the business units.
It started out at the beginning of the year.
We recognized that there was going to be some pretty aggressive action in big residential contracts and we took account of that in our front year guidance.
But it has spread to the roll-off in the commercial lines.
We just got through in the last 2 weeks going through all 25 of our geographic areas to look at their market business strategy for the next 4 years.
And for the first time since I've been meeting with these folks on a quarterly basis it was virtually every market that said they're seeing very aggressive pricing action spreading starting out obviously in the residential line of business but now spreading to the commercial and the industrial line.
And that's why you see our price rollbacks growing.
So in other words I think the whole point of the pricing is a few things.
First off we're not going to back off on our price increases because the trade-off is still positive but we are seeing more reductions from rollbacks which is obviously competitively driven.
And then we got this mix issue that quite frankly we didn't see coming in the beginning part of the year.
You can't predict the mix.
And it really hit us hard in the second quarter.
We expect it to abate a little bit but we still expect to see some of that in the third and fourth quarters.
Follow-up.
I think you mentioned some changes recently to the senior leadership team.
I was hoping you might be able to provide some color on that and maybe an update with regard to the CFO search.
When I look at the senior leadership team and the composition of the senior leadership team what we were trying to do was to align the senior leadership team around our primary focuses.
Right now that is all about our customer focus growth efforts and our innovation and optimization efforts.
And I wanted to get the team aligned around that.
Bringing Jim Trevathan in from the field I think was something that we needed in order to make sure that we could drive both of those into the field.
I mean those are the 2 biggest things we're working on and I needed someone with a depth of experience and with field credibility to be able to drive those big programs throughout the company.
So I think Jim will be a tremendous benefit there.
On the CFO search as you all know it will be very difficult to replace Bob but we are well on the way in our search.
And we fully expect that by the time he marches out the door on September 30 we'll have his replacement in the chair.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Fisher with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> A couple of things.
One on the $80 million of operating income improvement you're targeting.
Is that in the second half versus the first half? Or is that kind of a year-over-year thing? That is the second half versus the first half.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And on that you kind of roughly did -- I know it's coming from both operating improvements and SG&amp;A but is there -- should the SG&amp;A I think Bob highlighted some numbers should that just drop sequentially in kind of a half-half split if you will between those 2 things? I think what you'll see is the SG&amp;A will still be up year-over-year.
It won't be up as much as we had planned from the beginning.
But the initiatives the customer-focused growth initiatives and the innovation and business optimization initiatives are going to continue.
And they're incremental to what we were spending last year.
So what we've done is we've been sourced a lot of the consulting work and won't be needing that anymore.
And we produced ads in a number of places and in a number of functions.
So I think that it will -- I expect SG&amp;A for the year to be a little under 12% of revenue.
Inc.</strong> And on Oakleaf is one of the benefits next year as well your -- to the extent another hauler in a local market serving a national account and you have hauling obviously there you can internalize that and then bring that collection in-house if you will? Yes there's really 2 approaches that will take in every market.
The obvious one is exactly that.
But when you think about it just to use an example let's assume that a hauler has $100 000 of Oakleaf business in a particular market and that's 10% of their revenue.
If $100 000 is 10% of their revenue that means they have $1 million of total revenue right? And that also means that about 30% to 40% of that $1 million is disposal costs for them.
So they've got $300 000 to $400 000 of disposal costs on their $1 million of revenue right? That's 3x to 4x the amount of revenue that Oakleaf has in that market that $100 000.
So when you think about it you can get 3x to 4x the revenue if you're able to get all of their disposal volumes in a line of business that has about double the margins of the collection line of business.
So if we're able to work with those haulers to get them to bring all of their volumes to our disposal and recycling facilities we actually do a lot better than if we take over that business on the truck.
We can do better on the order of magnitudes.
So you're getting 3x to 4x the revenue in a line of business that probably has double the margin.
So you're getting 6x to 8x more benefit if you can add that hauler bring their volumes to your landfill network and your recycling network.
And so we're going to work with those local haulers to actually keep them in place.
But look if we can provide better disposal solutions for them that become a win for them and a win for us Inc.</strong> And then just real quickly that 80 to 100 basis point on price you're trying to get would you say half of that's from that environmental fee increase? Or how do you think about that? That's about right.
It's about half -- a little bit more than half of the environmental fee and then the rest from accelerating price increases into the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
I want to press a little bit on this mix issue and in particular what changed from sort of the April call to today or to adjusting guidance down what seems like a significant number in a very short period of time.
Yes.
And frankly we were a little bit surprised by it.
When you look at the first quarter we had a slight negative for mix.
In the second quarter that went to $19.5 million and so it was a pretty dramatic shift pretty quickly.
And most of that occurred in our southern group.
So for example in South Florida we have franchise business.
And in the franchise markets our permanent roll-off is actually higher priced than our temporary roll-off a little different than most of our other markets.
But the permanent roll-off business has started in Florida has started to feel the heat from the economy over the last few years.
But actually there was a pretty good tick-up in temporary businesses.
So you had a mix in the roll-off line that went from higher-priced to lower-priced volumes.
You've also had some residential contracts throughout the country where in order to maintain or extend those contracts we'll go in and offer a recycling service.
So if you are doing a solid waste home at $12 a home and you go in and you do recycling at $2 a home you've made a good business decision.
But your yield looks like it's going down.
And then we've got a lot of special waste as you know for the last few years and special waste is always interesting.
The example I use is if you have a landfill where you are bringing in waste from a long distance you might charge $18 at a whole but you charge $50 for transportation.
But then if the volumes come in from closer you might charge $20 at the whole with no transportation.
So you're actually making a great business decision.
You're making more money but it looks like your price has gone down because of the mix of volumes.
And so I think with the increase in special waste with the change in South Florida with the change with some of the residential contracts and then with our normal churn we saw that hit us a lot harder in the second quarter than we've seen in the past.
David if I looked at the 1.5% to 2.5% decline and then back out the so-called large special waste item that being in the gulf what's the decline in the business now? Because you were basically suggesting flat heading into this sprint but there's obviously these items you've talked about.
Yes.
When we look at volumes really what you're seeing -- I think what we're seeing in volumes mirrors the U.S.
economy which is we just aren't seeing the West and the South come back work through their housing problems as fast as we expected.
And then -- so what we've seen in the last few quarters is that the Midwest and the East have actually been doing fairly well.
The South and the West haven't been doing so well.
And then this quarter what you saw was that the West and the South continued to have negative volumes.
But you also saw in May and June you saw even some softness in the Midwest and the East which I think is probably driven by the same effects the same factors that you saw on the national economy.
So what we're seeing is that volumes continue to remain stubbornly low.
We've talked about it since the beginning of the downturn which is what you'll see I believe is when you see the commercial volumes start to turn is when you'll see the volumes turn for us.
And we just haven't seen that happen yet.
Okay.
And then if I may try to bridge or do the waterfall from the prior EPS guidance to the current which I guess excludes any consideration of the Oakleaf it looks like at midpoint there's an $0.11 drop to the guidance.
And so I was wondering if someone could provide the buckets of which you would associate that $0.11 drop so 50% volume 3% of it's price I mean what's the...
I would tell you that the drop is volume.
That drop in volume Al is offset by the actions we're taking on the cost side.
Remember the actions we're taking on the yield side ought to just get us back to where our guidance was at the beginning of the year.
And if the actions that we're taking on the cost side plus a little bit of improvement in our outlook for recycling commodity prices and recycling volumes.
And I would tell you that I think that's exactly right.
The primary change is the volumes.
The secondary change has been the price rollbacks.
I mean we did not go into the year expecting to see the level of price rollbacks we have.
Obviously it's a more competitive market out there than we had anticipated.
And I think that makes sense given where the volumes are.
We expected there to be a little bit of return to the volume which obviously takes a little bit of the pressure off of both local regional and national players to lower price.
I think as they've seen the volumes continue to remain weak they've gotten more aggressive on price.
And as I keep saying and saying and saying and I'll continue to say we're not going to take those actions but we're going to have to respond to those actions by maintaining customers through price rollbacks.
Structurally don't expect any change in the price strategy continue to be firm on that.
But as a result of that we should expect some net churn and higher churn in volume? That is a result of that.
I would say it's just what the volumes were with the economy this way.
And what it comes down to I mean the churn rate in the quarter was actually slightly improved.
But the problem is that we have to rollback prices to maintain those customers.
So I don't think -- look we have a choice.
When every customer calls in and says they got a lower price from someone in the competition we have two choices: let them go or maintain them by reducing their price as little as we can by offering them other services and things like that.
But we need to maintain those customers.
So at the same time we've got a pricing strategy that says we're going to continue exactly as we've been in the past getting those 6% to 7% price increases and maintaining our new business pricing discipline but we're going to have to be more aggressive to maintain customers.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Hoffman with Wunderlich Securities.
1Q '10 you had a price scenario that I'm going to try and possibly equate to what we're seeing in 2Q in the sense of it doesn't live up to your expectations.
And you fairly quickly turned around to the system and said fix it.
And they did and we saw a rapid change in 2Q.
Can you compare those 2 to us on the context of that you're dealing with and the probability of that ability to have that quick turn? Yes I think -- actually that's a great question Michael.
And that's what we've been spending a lot of time.
I would say we've been spending most of our time over the last probably 3 weeks working on.
And I think you are exactly right.
The parallel is very clear.
The only difference is -- and so the organization will get it done.
I don't have any doubt about that.
We've already got the environmental fee rolling out.
We've got the acceleration of our price increases in the pipeline.
So the organization will respond.
I don't have any doubt about that.
The difference that we've got between this year and that year because what you saw was we dropped below 1% and then we immediately snapped back well above 2% the only difference you have between now and then is this mix issue right? I mean we didn't have the 60 to 80 basis points of mix headwind.
And again mix doesn't necessarily reduce your bottom line earnings.
In my examples you're actually making more money but it looks like your yield is going down.
And so you would see exactly the same snapback if it weren't for these mix issues.
And the way we're looking at the mix issues right now we're expecting them to continue in the back half of the year.
So I think the corollary is identical.
As soon as we see deterioration we take action to do something about it and we intend to maintain that discipline.
Okay.
And so another side of that question is you're being more proactive about defending long-standing businesses as opposed...
Right.
Okay.
But that in itself is not necessarily a bad thing either because the alternative is to replace it without being too long about this.
I mean if you had a customer churn at 10% then you're talking about having customers for 10 years.
So if you've held on to somebody for 10 years and you put him in at $3 a yard 10 years ago but raised prices 6% year-over-year you're somewhere in the $5 or $6 a yard now and the competitor's somewhere between $3 and $5 to try and pick it off.
You're exactly right.
And when we look at it we look at new business pricing lost business pricing the business that we look at from a lost business pricing point of view the business that we have is spectacular business.
It's way above what our competition is charging for new business.
And so the smart thing to do is to maintain those customers because you don't have the -- obviously you don't have the acquisition cost for those customers but you also have those customers already at great rates.
And so you've hit the nail right on the head.
The problem is that we have to spend our efforts defending the price and we're going to do that.
And I would hope that as folks recognize that we're not going to let go of customers as readily as we have in the past that they'll realize that for their own company they're going to start a debt spiral that probably doesn't end where they want it to end.
All right.
And then you've highlighted Florida very specifically.
And unfortunately there's 3 relatively sizable -- between Advanced Choice and Waste Pro they're noted for being the price draggers in Florida.
But the other thing is such -- I can see where maybe the -- that's why your problems -- but let me understand mix.
So what I'm basically hearing is that bankruptcies are increasing or basically people going out of business that used to be permanent.
But the temporary would suggest that there's some economic recovery recurring as well.
I think in South Florida I'm not sure if I call it an economic recovery.
It's a dead cat bounce right? I mean the roll-off volumes went down so dramatically that it's pretty easy for them to grow right? And so you've actually seen a little bit of growth in the temporary business but you've seen shrinkage in the permanent business.
All right.
And then on the free cash flow side to hit the goal for the rest of the year you've done just under $500 million if I brought math correctly for the first half.
That means you have to do 750-ish in the second half.
And noting this $80 million that you're going to capture in savings between the yield and cost cuts so that would suggest to me the run rate was 670 going in.
That seems stronger than the normal.
It's 55 2nd half 45 1st half mix of your free cash.
It's like it will be more like last year where we have stronger free cash flow in the second half of the year than we had previously and I think that's what we're expecting to see.
But the degree of that strength would suggest that it's not great news to be able to tell everybody that you're lowering guidance.
I get all that.
But reading through it the degree of that strength would say that if I roll into '12 I'm going to be up in free cash.
In '12? To '12 2012.
But we haven't given guidance on that yet.
But Michael I don't know why that wouldn't be true.
Right.
Just following the logic on this.
The 2012 that's got to be higher than 1.25 based on what you're describing how this plays out in the second half.
Well I think that's right.
I mean we're taking a lot of steps.
We're paying the price in SG&amp;A now to grow our business to reduce our costs.
And we should see the benefits of those some of it in the second half of this year but accelerating into 2012 and later years.
Okay.
So not to press the fine point where's the Board's tolerance or patience with regards to the show me this is really happening? Yes Michael it's interesting because obviously you have to spend money to make money.
And we had a lot of opportunities to get long-term benefits.
We identified it at the beginning of the year.
We knew we had to spend money in order to get those benefits.
I mean that's just the nature of the beast.
But we also expected volumes to bounce back.
I mean look the reality is that these dollars that we're spending to benefit our future wouldn't even be recognized if we were showing volume growth and continuing to get 2%-plus yield.
It wouldn't be affecting our numbers whatsoever.
We happen to be spending money for the future in the teeth of volumes and price that aren't as strong as we thought they would be.
And so you have 2 choices right? You either say okay we're going to cut the spending because we're not seeing the volumes with price come in or you say we're going to continue to do what we think is the best thing for the long term of this company.
And you spend despite the fact that you’re seeing -- because you know you are going to get the future benefit and you keep spending despite the fact that it's been a tough year.
I said it in my script it's a tough balance to do for the long term and the short term.
But we're going to spend to benefit the long term.
But on the other hand we're also going to go to our organization and say look we've got to find everywhere we can to cut out costs other than the investment in the future.
And so when you talk about a Board our Board is obviously a long-term thinking Board.
We're a long-term thinking management team.
And so I think they have -- as long as they're seeing the progress I think they've got the right amount of patience.
I think they recognize that the journey is not a straight line.
Okay.
And clearly they targeted an $80 million number.
You can't tell the market to not actually deliver on it.
So you must have an awful lot of visibility on that number.
Well as we said a good part of that is from pricing actions and we've already done that.
Now if we had to roll that back dramatically but we built into the plan what we think is a reasonable amount of rollback of that and so that could affect it.
And on the cost side we've already taken a lot of the action to pull those costs down.
So yes we're pretty caught confident there.
All right.
And then lastly this isn't public records.
So the Woodlands Texas municipal bid you guys lowered the price pretty significantly to keep it.
I mean it was $12.50 a home and now you're at $9.
So I mean that seems pretty -- is it taking that kind of change to be able to keep business? Yes it's a different -- we also had a different level of different service in there right? And so I think that's a great point.
That's a place where it looks like we are reducing price but basically what we did was we went in with different service levels and we actually do just as well on that contract than we did at the higher price.
And so it's one of those actions that is a good business decision but that also that makes it look like you're dropping price.
Your next question comes from the line of Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
First question is Bob I think you commented that you think that increasing the yield level won't hit volumes.
Could you just square that with the idea that right now you're going to rollback price more? And if it's not going to hit volumes why not in for 2.5 points of price instead of 2 points? Yes I think what I was saying Corey is not yet in what I've -- first of all I think we've shown over time that raising prices hasn't really impacted our churn rate.
Our churns have been between 9 and 11 ever since I got here 12 years ago.
It stayed in that range and it's still in that range now.
So the impact of raising prices hasn't been a significant impact in how our volumes have performed.
Now we have increased rollbacks in the second quarter and that maybe indicate a higher level of competition.
But we're still going to get 2% yield even with a little bit higher level of rollbacks.
We think the real driver of the volumes isn't the price increases.
It's the economy and where businesses are right now.
Okay.
And David I think you said the roll-off relative temporary roll-off strength was a dead cat bound to that.
I think that's right.
Assuming the cat doesn't keep bouncing indefinitely.
Wouldn't that suggest that back half of the year what you're going to see probably is more out and out weakness versus the mix issue? Yes from a volume perspective -- Corey we just haven't seen -- and it's actually very interesting to watch our volume reports because what you'll see is a couple of weeks where you start to think that you're turning the corner and we've actually had a couple of weeks where our volumes were not only above 2010 volumes but we've done a roll-off in the disposal side.
But they're not only above 2010 volumes but they've been above 2009 volumes.
And then all of a sudden they've flattened out.
And then on the commercial side we just haven't seen -- unfortunately I think that cat's been dead for a while and we just haven't seen any bounce on the commercial side.
And that to me is indicative of the fact that there's not a lot of strength on the consumer side of the United States economy.
There's strength on the manufacturing side.
There's strength on the server-side.
But right now there's not a lot of strength on the consumer side.
Okay.
And could you just give your thoughts on kind of the coordination between you all in Houston and the field in terms of some of the price rollbacks that you're seeing? Is that completely consistent with what you would have expected in Houston and with what you would have advocated for? Or would you say that the field has maybe been a little bit more aggressive in rolling back price to keep volumes in than you would have liked and you're looking to change that? No I think actually they're doing a good job.
I mean again it comes down to the question of how fast could you add customers to replace the customers that you let leave you and at what rate are they leaving you.
And when they're leaving us at the highest rate that we've seen from a rate per yard rate per pull on the industrial site when they're leaving us at the highest rates we've seen in a number of years those are the types of customers -- not the highest rates in the volume point of view but the highest rates from a price per yard and price per pull point of view those are customers that you don't want to lose.
And then you've got to go out and acquire new customers to replace them if you want to maintain your volume.
And that cost you some money.
And in this environment that's not an easy thing to do either without lowering your price.
So it's the right strategy for us.
Can we do better? Yes we can do better.
We can save them at higher prices and we've got our folks focused on doing that.
But it's the right business decision to make and it's one that we've got to continue to make.
Okay.
And then a couple of questions on Oakleaf.
I presume it's a relatively capital light model.
But can you just give us some sense of what their CapEx is? Yes their CapEx is fairly low.
Obviously for us we've got -- as I said before we've got sort of the 2 business models.
We've got the 1 business model where we will have to go in and become the hauler.
But our preferred method would be to work with the vendor network to allow them to offer other services that we have whether it's recycling LampTracker other types of services and then able to offer disposal and recycling services to them across their business line.
That's our preferred method.
If we go in a market where we go about that method obviously there's no additional capital because the containers will stay in place.
If we aren't to work out those types of arrangements with the vendor network then we're going to have to go and replace them and spend some capital.
But we don't see that.
As I recall Bob that was sort of in the $10 million to $15 million on the high end that we have to spend in capital in the back half of the year.
And again if we can work with the vendor network in a win-win manner we won't even have to spend that.
Okay.
And could you just revisit -- I think in answer to the previous question you were talking about being able to influence the people in the network to use your disposal.
Can you just elaborate on that? And what is it about owning Oakleaf that makes that a more easier process than it would have been discussing that with those people when you didn't own Oakleaf? Yes well it makes it easier because we now control a big portion of their collection business right? I mean in the example I used if 10% of their business is Oakleaf business we would prefer to leave that in place and work out an arrangement with the vendor hauler where they bring us recycling volumes and disposal volumes at a level that's cost neutral or maybe even cost beneficial to them.
So that's a huge win for them.
It's a huge win for us.
The reason why we're able to do that that we aren't able to do now is we don't have -- 10% of their business in that market isn't controlled by Waste Management.
As of today it is.
And so if you want to maintain that business then we've got to look at the other parts of our business relationship to make it a win-win.
It's not a win for Waste Management if one of our vendor haulers just simply maintains that $100 000 of business in the market and we do nothing.
That is not a win for Waste Management.
There's only 2 ways we can win: one put it in on the back of our trucks and bring it in to our landfill.
But then we only get that 10% of the business.
If we can get 100% of their volumes into our disposal network that's a huge win for us.
And if we can do it at a cost-neutral even a cost-beneficial number to the vendor hauler it's a win for them.
And so it's a bigger win for us and a good win for them and we see that as positive for everyone.
Okay.
I was just going to ask when that transaction is going to close? Closed today.
That is all the time we have for questions today.
Are there any closing remarks? Yes what I'd like to say is a couple of things.
Obviously we're not happy with what happened in our second quarter.
And hopefully what you've heard today is that we're going to take actions to get this thing right.
But we're not going to do that by sacrificing the future.
And then I think a couple of other things.
On the Oakleaf transaction I think we'd be remiss if we didn't mention the amazing work that our team did putting this together.
We've been in discussions with them for quite a long time but we got into some very serious discussions over the last month or so.
And I'd be remiss if I didn't mention John Stein [ph] our legal team and Joe Cassin and Buddy West and Shawn Hill in our finance group and Scott Stadelman in the sales department and tons of other people that have been working night and day to get this deal done.
It was a phenomenal job by them.
This is going to be a great opportunity for Waste Management.
It's also going to be a great opportunity for the folks at Oakleaf.
So we're really looking forward to getting to know our new partner.
And I can promise you we'll be meeting with them regularly to let them know what's going on as we will with the vendor hauler network.
And then finally I wanted to say this is actually Bob's last quarterly conference call.
And from my point of view we've been together now for about 7 years.
Bob's been a great business partner but he's a better friend than a business partner.
And we will certainly all miss his sage advice as he wanders off to retire to his beloved Kingwood.
So Bob congratulations on the retirement.
And I'm sure I'll be visiting your house often.
Please come out.
Thank you all.
Thank you.
Thank you for participating in today's Waste Management Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Standard Time today through 11:59 p.m.
Eastern Time on Thursday August 11 2011.
The conference ID number for the replay is 73675301.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 73675301.
The number to dial for the replay is 1 (800) 642-1687 or 1 (706) 645-9291.
You may now disconnect.
.
Good morning.
My name is Brandi and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Waste Management Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ed Egl Director Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Brandi.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on our third quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are David Steiner Chief Executive Officer; and Steve Preston Executive Vice President of Finance Recycling and Energy Services.
David will start things off with a summary of the financial results for the quarter and a review of the details of our revenue growth including price and volume trends.
Steve will cover operating costs and the financial statements.
We will conclude with questions and answers.
During their statements any comparisons made by David and Steve unless otherwise stated will be with the third quarter of 2010.
Before we get started let me remind you that in addition to our earnings press release that was issued this morning we have filed a Form 8-K that includes the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 and is available on our website at www.wm.com.
The Form 8-K the press release and the schedule for the release include important information that you should refer to.
During the call you will hear certain forward-looking statements based on current expectations opinions or beliefs about future periods.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of those risks and uncertainties are detailed in our earnings press release this morning and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Form 10-K.
Additionally during the call David and Steve will discuss our results on an as-adjusted basis including revenue; net income; earnings per fully diluted share which they may refer to as EPS; interest expense; operating expenses; SG&amp;A expense; and expenses as a percent of revenue.
These financial measures have been adjusted for items management believes do not reflect the fundamental business performance or are not indicative of our results of operations.
All these measures in addition to free cash flow are non-GAAP measures.
Please note that our financial results as well as the projected EPS free cash flow and all other forward-looking statements except those specifically pertaining to Oakleaf do not incorporate any benefits or costs associated with our recent acquisition of Oakleaf or Oakleaf's operations.
Please refer to the reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP measures in the Form 8-K and the earnings press release footnote and schedule attached thereto which can be found on the company's website at www.wm.com.
This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning approximately 1 p.m.
Eastern Time today until 5 p.m.
Eastern Time on November 10.
To hear a replay of the call over the Internet access the Waste Management website at www.wm.com.
To hear a telephonic replay of the call dial (800) 642-1687 and enter reservation code 96225430.
Time sensitive information provided during today's call which is occurring on October 27 2011 may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Waste Management is prohibited.
Now I'll turn the call over to Waste Management CEO David Steiner.
Thanks Ed and good morning from Houston.
I want to welcome Steve Preston on his first earnings call as our Executive Vice President of Finance.
As you know Bob Simpson retired on September 30 but he worked hard up to that day to make the transition a smooth one.
We all miss Bob of course but we're excited to welcome Steve to the team.
Welcome Steve.
We're pleased with the results of our operations for the third quarter as we overcame a number of headwinds from a sluggish economy $0.01 of negative impact from Hurricane Irene on the East Coast and continued investment in our growth initiatives to produce $0.63 of diluted earnings per share in the quarter.
We took a lot of costs out in the quarter and we will continue to attack costs.
However we'll also continue to focus on our long-term cost and revenue initiatives because in a slow growth environment those initiatives will help to drive earnings improvement.
Revenue for the third quarter increased by $181 million or 5.6% from the prior year period.
This is the seventh consecutive quarter of positive year-over-year revenue comparison.
We achieved this despite the third quarter of 2010 having benefited significantly from the Gulf Coast cleanup effort.
Excluding Gulf Coast volumes from the comparison volumes would have been down only 0.3% which was the best performance we've seen in years.
Higher commodity prices improved recycling volumes acquisitions year-over-year internal revenue growth from yield and surcharge increases all contributed to the revenue growth.
Internal revenue from growth from yield on our collection and disposal operations was 1.6% in the quarter and is at 2% year-to-date through September 30.
The quarter's result is consistent with our results in the second quarter of 2011 demonstrating our continued pricing discipline.
The combined internal revenue growth from yield at the industrial commercial and residential lines of our collection business was 2.1% in the third quarter.
Commercial and industrial yields were 3% and 2.2% respectively.
IRG from yield in our residential line of business was 0.8%.
We continue to meet with municipalities that are seeking concessions and we're working with them to change service levels extend contracts or offer value propositions that would benefit both the municipality and Waste Management.
These are good business decisions but they've negatively impacted our residential and our overall yield.
In the third quarter of 2011 we saw improvement in our price rollbacks as they returned to more normal levels after a spike in the second quarter.
We maintained customer churn at about 10.7% in the third quarter a 10 basis point improvement from the same quarter in the prior year.
We need to continue to focus on retaining our customers and we expect our churn rate to improve into 2012.
On the landfill yield front the special waste and C&amp;D waste streams had the sixth consecutive quarter of positive internal revenue growth from yield.
In recent months we've increased our environmental fees as our environmental costs continue to rise.
We've also continued our general price increase program and those actions will be reflected in our fourth quarter yield results.
However a change in contract pricing at one of our waste-to-energy operations in South Florida will have between a negative $5 million and a negative $6 million impact on yield in the fourth quarter.
Excluding this from our yield calculations we expect our fourth quarter results to bring us very close to achieving 2% yield for the full year.
On the volume side of the business internal revenue growth from volume declined 2% in the quarter.
If you exclude the volumes associated with the Gulf Coast cleanup efforts in 2010 IRG from volume declined only 0.3% in the quarter.
Our commercial collection line of business saw a year-over-year IRG from volume decline of 4.1% and the residential line of business saw a 3.4% decline year-over-year.
Both of these collection lines improved sequentially from the second quarter and are the best IRG volume results that we've seen in 2011 for these business lines.
Industrial IRG from volume declined by 2.9% on a year-over-year basis which is an improvement from the second quarter of 2011.
So collection volumes are improving but not as fast as volumes from recycling which on an organic basis grew 8% year-over-year.
If we include recycling volumes we obtained from acquisitions our recycling volumes have increased 14% year-over-year.
As you know customers are becoming more interested in diversion and we have a growing network of MRFs to support this demand.
We will continue to invest in recycling assets to better meet our customers' needs.
In the landfill side of the business third quarter 2011 internal revenue growth from volume improved by 1.5% compared to the third quarter of 2010.
IRG from volume for special waste was positive 3.6% year-over-year.
IRG from C&amp;D volume declined 0.4% and MSW volumes declined 4.8% year-over-year.
The MSW internal revenue growth from volume improved 270 basis points from the second quarter of 2011.
Income from operations in the collection line of business improved 2% in the third quarter when compared to the same quarter last year.
This was our highest third quarter income from operations and our highest margin in the collection lines of business in more than 6 years.
We increased our income from operations despite lower volumes by flexing costs and maintaining our pricing discipline.
In our waste-to-energy line of business income from operations declined $10 million primarily related to the expiration of a long-term power capacity agreement in our South Florida market.
In the fourth quarter we expect income from operations in our waste-to-energy business to be flat when compared with the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our position as a leader in the North American recycling business continues to be a strength in 2011 with increased commodity prices and volumes contributing about $0.05 of positive year-over-year earnings per diluted share in the third quarter.
Commodity prices have increased approximately 29% and recycling volumes including acquisitions have increased approximately 14% when compared with the same quarter last year.
In the fourth quarter we expect commodity prices to decline modestly from their current levels and we expect earnings per diluted share from recycling to be about flat compared to the fourth quarter last year.
As you may recall recycling prices in the fourth quarter of 2010 remained strong throughout the quarter.
But we expect 2011 to be more in line with long-term historic trends with commodity prices showing a seasonal downtick in the fourth quarter.
We saw the beginning of that seasonal downtick in late October.
The integration of Oakleaf into our company is progressing as we expected.
Since the acquisition we've closed on several new business opportunities and expanded some existing contracts.
We're continuing to work with the customers and the third-party hauler network to ensure a smooth transition.
Our relationship with the third-party haulers is strong and we're working with them to find solutions that will benefit customers haulers and Waste Management.
With the holiday season upon us customers want to ensure that any service transition will not interrupt their seasonal business.
So the integration will slow somewhat over the holiday season and will speed up beginning in the first quarter of 2012.
Consequently we should see the benefits from the Oakleaf acquisition begin to ramp up in the second quarter of next year.
In the third quarter of 2011 we saw the best volume performance we've seen in sometime which is encouraging.
However we need to see further strength in our MSW and commercial lines before we can be comfortable that this is a sustainable trend and that we'll see positive year-over-year volume comparisons.
So for the remainder of the year we expect volumes to follow the same pattern as the rest of the year at about negative 1.5% to negative 2% which makes it important that we maintain our focus on costs and pricing.
By doing so we still expect to achieve full year adjusted earnings of between $2.14 and $2.18 per share -- per diluted share.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Steve.
All right.
Thank you David.
It's great to be here.
It sure beats competing against Waste Management.
I'm also looking forward to meeting many of you on the phone in the near future as I get out on the road.
So I'm going to give an overview of our costs and our cash flows and then we will open the line up for some questions.
Our operating costs increased by $172 million in the quarter to 63.2% of revenue.
The biggest contributor was cost of goods sold which increased $92 million in the quarter mainly because of rebates to recycling customers due to higher recycling commodity prices and volumes.
Direct fuel costs increased about $39 million.
That was primarily because of a 32% increase in price per gallon of diesel fuel.
And in the third quarter the fuel surcharge revenue actually offset the higher cost of the fuel completely.
Labor costs increased $21 million in the quarter primarily related to merit increases.
Tuck-in and other acquisitions contributed about $17 million to the increase in foreign currency translation for our Canadian operations accounted for an increase of about $7 million.
We also achieved approximately $28 million of benefit in operating expense in the third quarter from the actions that we took to reduce discretionary spending and eliminate positions as well as from the expanded rollout of our procurement initiatives.
We expect to see an increasing benefit from those initiatives in the fourth quarter even more so going into 2012.
SG&amp;A costs in the third quarter were flat year-over-year but improved as a percentage of revenue by 60 basis points to 10.8% despite the fact that we spent about $10 million on those procurement and cost reduction initiatives.
Our third quarter of 2011 was affected by several special items that were identified in our press release.
As we normally do we have adjusted for asset impairments and restructuring costs.
We also excluded the accounting impact on our environmental remediation obligations due to changes in the 10-year Treasury rate which have declined from 3.5% to 2.0%.
And finally last year we excluded the negative impact of creating a $28 million closed landfill remediation reserve.
So in the third quarter we also excluded a $9 million benefit from reducing that reserve when a lower cost remediation was selected by the EPA.
And as we mentioned on the second quarter conference call we also adjusted for Oakleaf integration costs and operations.
Interest expense for the third quarter decreased $9 million compared with the prior year period primarily due to the improved pricing of our $2 billion revolving credit facility which was amended in May of 2011.
And also at the end of the quarter our average -- weighted average cost of debt was 5.3%.
Our debt to total capital ratio for the quarter was 60.5%.
That was consistent with our target ratio of 60% and the floating rate portion of our total debt portfolio was 17% at the end of the quarter.
Our income tax rate as reported for the third quarter of 2011 was 32.3%.
The reduction in our third quarter rate is primarily due to audit settlements and adjustments from filing our 2010 income tax return that benefited our EPS by about $0.02 a share.
For the full year we expect the recurring effective tax rate to be approximately 35%.
Turning now to cash flow.
Third quarter 2011 net cash provided by operating activities was $659 million.
In the third quarter of 2010 we received a federal tax refund of $65 million.
So if you exclude that item net cash provided from operations increased $47 million or 7.7%.
Our capital expenditures for the third quarter were $313 million leading us to a free cash flow for the third quarter of $372 million which was $52 million less than the prior year.
That was largely due to an increase in CapEx of $51 million as well as the $65 million federal tax refund we received in 2010.
We still expect our free cash flow for 2011 to be about $1.25 billion.
In the third quarter of 2011 we paid $158 million in dividends.
We also repurchased $360 million worth of our common stock continuing our long-standing emphasis on returning cash to shareholders.
In October we also repurchased an additional $47 million of common stock to complete our board-authorized share repurchase program for 2011 of $575 million.
And finally we completed approximately $488 million in business acquisitions including Oakleaf during the third quarter.
So in conclusion we are entering fourth quarter with a stable price and volume environment solid momentum in our procurement and cost reduction initiatives as well as good progress on the Oakleaf acquisition.
So with that Brandi let's open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Michael Hoffman with Wunderlich.
Research Division</strong> Welcome onboard Steve.
On the recycling price issue it would appear that 2012 we're not going to fall of a cliff but in all likelihood prices will probably average lower than they have in 2011.
Can you talk about any kind of a metric that you have a $10 move equals what or -- to think about what that headwind will look like going into 2012? Yes if you look at recycling prices -- and obviously it's driven by fiber but a $10 movement in fiber prices equates to about $0.01 a year.
Research Division</strong> Okay equals $0.01.
All right that's great.
And then on the free cash flow side the word about -- I mean it makes me think of the people in New England using the word "yonder" and it means around the corner or 20 miles how do we think about what about is as you think about the free cash? And more importantly to make $1.25 either you're going to have one heck of a cash from ops number which sounds like a big working capital shift or you spend less money.
How do we get there based on where you are year-to-date? Yes.
Well we certainly have some hard work to do to hit that $1.25 of target but we do believe it's achievable.
It's certainly Michael not in the bag.
We're going to have to be very focused I think in the fourth quarter on managing working capital as well especially focusing on capital expenditure.
So I think it's going to come from a number of places but we're really going to have to focus on every one of them to bring that number over the line.
Research Division</strong> But do you stay with your budget of $1.35 million in CapEx given that you've got 100% bonus depreciation this year and maybe not next year? I think we stay with our budget of $1.35 million for the time being although we're -- the fourth quarter is a big quarter for CapEx.
We're looking very hard at the entire list of expenditures that we're expecting to make this quarter and making sure that every $0.01 we put out there is well spent.
So there's certainly an incentive to do it this year because of bonus depreciation but I think we're also going to be very circumspect in what we -- in the amount that we spend.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then there was a slide presentation you all did recently at a conference.
It's Slide 19 and it showed a cost saves and then sort of a second half the benefit.
And basically the conclusion was between the third full quarter and the fourth quarter there ought to be a $0.05 improvement.
Are we going to still see that $0.05? And that means then it's a $0.68 number in the fourth quarter for earnings? Well I think there are a number of moving pieces there.
I think in terms of the cost improvement we still expect to see strong sequential improvement between the 2 quarters and that's going to come really from a number of areas.
When you look at that $0.04 to $0.05 to the $0.09 to $0.10 from third to fourth quarter that includes a number of components right? It includes the revenue improvement initiatives that some of which David went through.
The environmental surcharge and the price increases includes the labor reductions that I mentioned.
It includes the procurement initiatives.
So there are a number of different pieces that go in there.
And so I think every one of those components is actually going to see some sequential strength from third to fourth quarter.
Now some of that is going to -- from a year-over-year basis it's going to be somewhat offset by the commodity pricing that you mentioned because we had a strong benefit from commodities in the third quarter.
Fourth quarter to fourth quarter we're going to see less of that.
So to an extent some of that benefit we're seeing on the cost side is going to be -- is going to serve to offset the commodity price benefit we got in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that slide should be revised and it shouldn't be $0.05 improvement sequentially then.
Michael it's probably not a full $0.05 because remember as Steve said that's both cost and revenue.
We're probably $0.01 behind maybe $0.01 maybe $0.02 behind on that mainly coming from our growth initiatives.
But then as Steve mentioned we got a $0.05 benefit in the third quarter from recycling.
We don't expect to get a $0.05 year-over-year benefit in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> That's fair enough.
I just want to understand how the numbers should play out as far as the model.
And then the tax rate if you're going to do 35% for the year that means fourth quarter has to be much higher.
What are you using for your fourth quarter to get to the 35% for the year? Right.
So the 35% for the year was sort of -- I think the words I used were the recurring tax rate.
What we were trying to do is basically say the base tax rate that we're looking at is $35 million [ph].
But periodically as we announced in the quarter we have adjustments that would have stacked that number.
So in the fourth quarter -- right now if you look at that 35% that would not assume any of those adjustments but I don't want to call that yet.
We may have somewhat of an impact from fourth quarter tax adjustments.
But at this point that's -- think of that as more the recurring underlying tax rate of the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if BP was $47 million -- or not $47 million 1.7% in the third quarter what is it in the fourth quarter? It's about 80 basis points in the fourth quarter.
.
Our next question comes from the line of Hamzah Mazari with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The first question is just on pricing.
Were you expecting pricing to accelerate relative to the second quarter? And then maybe if you could just comment on where you're seeing increased competition in which market? And is the pricing headwind all due to these resi contracts? And maybe just touch on how aggressive you're being on the landfill side.
Yes when we look at pricing from a competitive point of view I think we see a fairly stable pricing environment.
Look in a slow economy I'd rather see that stable price environment where it was 3 years ago in a great economy 3% 3.5%.
But in a slow economy you'd expect there to be a little more competitive reaction and we've seen that but it hasn't been anything dramatic.
So when we look at the third quarter most of the pricing actions that we took the raise in the environmental fee and moving up price increases most of them occurred throughout the quarter so we didn't get the full benefit in the third quarter.
We certainly will see that uptick in the fourth quarter.
So in the third quarter it was offset a little bit by residential pricing both CPI and price rollbacks that we've had to put in to maintain contracts.
But again those are good decisions.
We're going to take the right pricing actions to maintain the right business.
And so we continue to have rollbacks albeit at a much lower level than in the second quarter.
We continue to see residential pricing a little bit weak.
So that was the headwind in the third quarter.
In the fourth quarter again we've got that one big contractual headwind in South Florida from our waste-to-energy plant.
If you exclude that we would expect to see improvement in the fourth quarter on the pricing side.
Research Division</strong> And just on the landfill side what are you guys pushing through on price right now and how much additional running room do you think you have there? Yes I think we have a lot of additional running room.
Basically if you look at the overall landfill pricing it's up about 1.3%.
But we still have plenty of room to go there.
Research Division</strong> And just on Oakleaf how much -- how should we think about that business in terms of what it's generating right now on EBITDA? You said you can bring that up to $80 million of EBITDA.
How long does that process take? What is the business generating right now and what do you have baked into your guidance for Oakleaf? All right.
So Oakleaf right now I think was about a cost of $0.01 a share in the quarter.
And that is really the mixture of fully unintegrated Oakleaf plus any integration costs associated with that as well as higher interest expense.
And think of the next 2 to 3 quarters as being heavy integration periods.
So I think in the next couple of quarters we would expect it to look roughly like we do now.
I think some of those integration costs are going to hit sequentially over the next few quarters.
Getting into the middle of next year we would really begin to see -- we expect to see a pretty significant ramp in the benefit from Oakleaf and that comes from really 2 -- 3 primary areas.
Okay? It comes from working with third-party haulers to expand our relationships with them.
So that if Oakleaf is giving a hauler business we have the opportunity not only to get the disposal work on that particular haul but to expand our relationship.
So it's an important incentive to drive disposal volume to our facilities.
Secondly in a number of the markets Waste Management will be taking some of that volume and internalizing it.
And then thirdly there is a significant opportunity to consolidate the operational side of the 2 companies we have.
Many aspects of what both companies do are overlapping.
And as we put those on one platform we would expect to see the benefit.
So as you ramp that up the next 2 or 3 quarters we would be sequentially taking some costs to drive that integration.
Some of that is going to be for streamlining.
Some of that is going to be for equipment that we put out in the field and repair.
And then really sort of in the second quarter going through the third fourth quarters of next year we would expect to see that ramping.
Full year next year I don't think it's going to be a significant impact.
But the run rate coming out of 2012 sort of fourth quarter going into the following year is when we would expect to really be achieving that full benefit.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
That's helpful.
And just the last question on SG&amp;A.
On your long-term SG&amp;A target does that need to change now given the macroeconomic environment we're in as well as the sort of structural cost takeout that you plan to do? It seems like that's a little behind.
Does that need to change or you feel pretty comfortable with that? No.
Actually I feel very comfortable with that but it's going to be driven primarily by technological upgrades.
Right? I mean when you look at our SG&amp;A costs we have a lot of costs that are out in non-consolidated functions.
And so you've got to drive those consolidations with technology.
And so I fully expect to see that happen over the next 2 2.5 years.
.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Levine with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Welcome aboard Steve.
First question additional color on pricing.
I think last quarter you had indicated that the Southeast in particular was challenging and it was residential municipal that were the areas where you're experiencing the most pressure.
And I think you've affirmed that the latter is still true.
I was wondering if you could provide any additional regional color with regard to pricing additions across your entire footprint whether there are any changes versus 3 6 months ago perhaps? Yes.
I think when you look at our yield being pretty steady the last 2 quarters at 1.6% the word -- again the word to use is stability.
And so we don't see any sort of unusual pricing action in any particular area of the company.
Where we've seen the most pricing pressure has been on the rollback side and then in the residential line.
And then you've got -- the South has certainly had struggles.
Part of it is down in South Florida with our waste energy plants.
A lot of those contracts a lot of those disposal contracts were long-term disposal contracts.
And they happen to be rolling off much like some of our electricity contracts.
They happen to be rolling off at a time when the market isn't as strong as it was 4 years ago.
If that -- if this contract had rolled off 4 years ago we'd be in a heck of a lot better shape than we would be today.
It just so happens that contract is rolling off in South Florida and that's going to --  that's going to hit us.
But again if you eliminate that contract from the fourth quarter we fully expect to see price begin its march back up.
And then next year when you see CPI getting better we'd expect that to continue.
Now again next year -- every year is harder than the prior year because you've got a lot of different things like fees and surcharges anniversaring.
And so we've got to find a way to overcome those.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
But again to reiterate your point on CPI and the impact of CPI on your pricing your expectation is that will have a positive impact on core price in '12? Should have a positive impact yes.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then turning to free cash flow deployment.
You guys have been aggressive with the buyback it seems in the third quarter.
You guys typically make an announcement I believe on the dividend in December.
Any changes in terms of the thought process moving [ph] into next year in terms of free cash flow deployment or your appetite for acquisitions? No I wouldn't expect any dramatic shift.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One last question I think in the operating revenues by lines of business it looks like your revenues from other had roughly doubled sequentially from $105 million to $210 million.
I was wondering if you could remind us of what's in that category.
Would that be the Oakleaf revenue? I'm asking our folks here.
Oakleaf would be about $106 million.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's almost all of it there? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> First of all I just -- I wanted to clarify on the guidance the full year EPS guidance does that use the $0.63 in Q3? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I was hoping David you might be able to just talk a little bit about what has shifted in terms of your expectations from the last conference call.
I don't know if $0.63 was exactly what you were anticipating or not.
But just -- if you could kind of quickly touch on price volume the cost side of it just what -- and commodity prices what the moving pieces are in terms of what shifted since last quarter.
Yes.
When you look at this quarter compared to last quarter obviously our -- you've got sort of a double whammy.
Right? We've spent a lot less on our short-term and long-term cost and revenue initiatives.
So we spent less and we saved more and you should see that continuing into the fourth quarter.
We're going to spend less and save more.
So when we looked at third and fourth quarter we knew we had to do $1.25 just to get to the bottom end of the range.
And we knew that historically our fourth quarter is slightly down from our third quarter.
So we knew we had to have cost savings ramping up going into the fourth quarter in order to make the year.
And I'm pleased to see that that's exactly what happened in the third quarter.
So we're pretty comfortable with that range $2.14 to $2.18.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the $0.63.
So the -- within the bullet point kind of description in the press release.
And you mentioned in the commentary Steve there's the benefit of the tax item and you didn't pull that out of the $0.63.
So could you talk about why we should view that as more of a recurring item and shouldn't pull that out of the $0.63? I mean look there's absolutely no doubt that we would rather have that $0.02 to be driven by cash-generating items than tax rate.
But taxes are what taxes are right? I mean they're going to fluctuate year-to-year.
So earlier in the year we paid a higher tax rate because of -- before we have these audit settlements.
And so we sort of paid that price in the early part of the year.
This was basically just the catchup from the higher tax rate we had earlier in the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one more I think in your commentary David you've mentioned that you think churn will improve going into 2012.
Just -- can you give us a little bit more on that why you think churn improved? Yes look with churn -- look the churn rate is driven as you can imagine a lot by our rollback rate.
And we need to make good balanced pricing decisions right? And so when a customer calls up there's certainly more competitive action out there going after customers.
And again you'd expect that in a lower-volume environment.
We need to make the right decisions to maintain those customers and if that means that we have to roll back the price we're going to look at that piece of business and determine is it worth rolling back the price or do we let that customer go? And so we're going to put an added focus on that.
But look the reality is that most customers don't leave over price.
They leave over service issues.
And so as we use technology to improve our service issues we fully expect that.
And as we become an easier company to do business with we fully expect that to drive down the churn rate.
.
Our next question comes from the line of Al Kaschalk with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping David you could provide a little bit more detail on your outlook and expectations as it relates to commodity commodity prices given it's a little bit greater impact now in your business and what appears to be a little bit more than seasonal volatility in the October prices of OCC and ONP.
So I hear you say that there's not maybe headwinds or easier comps over the next 4 quarters but could you talk about maybe what the drag could be? Sure.
And with commodities you're absolutely right.
We're more and more moving toward that in our business and commodities have become certainly a worldwide market.
And so you've got the export market primarily China driving a lot of pricing including driving some of the domestic pricing.
And so traditionally what you see in the fourth quarter is you see the pricing tick down as the Chinese mills start -- they've already shipped a lot of their Christmas goods and so they're starting to slow down in the back half of the year.
So you see the China mills start to slow down and then you'll see the domestic mills start to slow down.
And that's frankly exactly what we're seeing today.
We're seeing the Chinese mills starting to slow down and so you're seeing pricing come back in China 15% to 20%.
That really hasn't hit the domestic market yet.
We fully expect that the domestic market will soften beginning in sort of throughout the November time frame.
And then we'll go back into a stable pricing environment as we come out of the new year.
That's been the historical trend.
Last year frankly was the anomaly.
Last year fourth quarter prices stayed strong throughout the fourth quarter.
So what we're seeing here is nothing that we didn't expect.
We're looking at flat year-over-year earnings.
If we continue to see deterioration in the export market could we have maybe $0.01 impact a negative $0.01 impact in the fourth quarter? We could but it's certainly not what we're projecting right now.
Research Division</strong> Just to clear up here the fourth quarter or the full year $2.14 to $2.18 are you assuming current prices or what you had at the beginning of the year in terms of average price for commodities? Or how should we think because I know you said earlier $10 drop would equate to about $0.01.
I assume that's for the full year but we have seen more than $10 just in each of the past couple of weeks in those markets so...
Well we absolutely have.
But what we're looking at -- it depends on if you look at it sequentially if you look at it year-over-year.
When you look at it year-over-year you've got 2 things: you had strong prices throughout the quarter in the fourth quarter last year; and then we've got more volume.
Remember we grew volume by 14% year-over-year so that helps make up for the earnings on a year-over-year comparison.
But you're absolutely right it goes back to what Steve was talking about earlier.
On a sequential basis you will see weakening in prices.
And so you can't just say "We're going to save money in cost and that gets sequentially added to the third quarter " because you will have a sequential downturn in earnings from recycling.
And so those are going to obviously offset each other to make up -- to help us drive that fourth quarter earning.
Research Division</strong> And then my follow-up or second question sort of a 2-parter if I may could you comment or provide quantified EPS impact on amortization from Oakleaf transaction? And then secondly you had talked about and I know this is in progress but $100-plus million contribution for the quarter.
But what are you hearing from the customers about the ability to sustain the relationship with WM going forward? Yes actually the customer relationship part has been very encouraging.
We put together a plan Steve and his group when we started to look at doing the deal.
The very first thing we put together was a plan to get out and meet with the customers and let the customers know that this combination for them is actually going to be very good.
What you've got is a combination of the biggest and the best company in the industry from a brokerage point of view that knows where to go to get services.
And you've also got the biggest and the best company from an asset point of view on the range of recycling and other assets that can meet those customers' needs.
And so as we like to say the combination made us both stronger and so we're able to better meet the wide range of customer needs.
So so far the customer relationships have been very good.
We've actually expanded business with a number of those customers and added a number of new customers that were in the Oakleaf pipeline.
So so far that's been spectacular.
We're looking forward to bringing that combined service offering to a lot more customers in 2012.
I think that's right.
And just to answer your first question on a quarterly basis we're looking at about $7.5 million worth of amortization.
.
There appears to be no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the conference back over to Mr.
David Steiner for closing remarks.
Thank you Brandi.
Thank you all for joining us.
We'll be seeing you on the road and looking forward to introducing you to Steve.
And we won't talk again until 2012.
So given that have a happy holiday season and we'll see you next year.
.
Thank you for participating in today's Waste Management Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
This call will be available for replay beginning 1 p.m.
Eastern Time today through 11:59 p.m.
Eastern Time on Thursday November 10 2011.
The conference ID number for the replay is 96225430.
The number to dial for the replay is 1 (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the fourth quarter and year-end 2011 earnings release conference call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Ed Egl Director Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Regina.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are David Steiner Chief Executive Officer; and Steve Preston Executive Vice President of Finance Recycling and Energy Services.
David will start things off with a summary of the financial results for the quarter and an overview of our plans for 2012.
Dave will cover our revenue growth including price and volume trends operating costs and the financial statements.
We will conclude with questions and answers.
During their statements any comparisons made by David and Steve unless otherwise stated will be with the fourth quarter of 2010.
Before we get started let me remind you that in addition to our earnings press release that was issued this morning we have filed a Form 8-K that includes the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 and is available on our website at www.wm.com.
The Form 8-K the press release and the schedule for the release include important information that you should refer to.
During the call you will hear certain forward-looking statements based on current expectations projections estimates opinions or beliefs about future periods.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of those risks and uncertainties are detailed in our earnings press release this morning and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Form 10-K.
Additionally during the call David and Steve will discuss our results on an as-adjusted basis including revenue; net income; earnings per fully diluted share which they may refer to as EPS; operating expenses; SG&amp;A expenses; expenses as a percent of revenue and free cash flow.
These measures of financial results have been adjusted to exclude the Oakleaf operations acquired during 2011 and items management believes do not reflect our fundamental business performance or are not indicative of our results of operations.
All of these measures are non-GAAP measures.
The company's projected 2012 earnings per diluted share are also anticipated to be adjusted for items that are not currently determinable.
Please refer to the Form 8-K and the earnings press release footnote and schedule attached thereto which can be found on the company's website at www.wm.com for reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP measures and additional information about our use of non-GAAP measures.
This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning approximately 1 p.m.
Eastern Time today until 5 p.m.
Eastern Time on March 1.
To hear a replay of the call over the Internet access the Waste Management website at www.wm.com.
To hear a telephonic replay of the call dial (855) 859-2056 and enter reservation code 38143289.
Time-sensitive information provided during today's call which is occurring on February 16 2012 may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Waste Management is prohibited.
Now I'll turn the call over to Waste Management CEO David Steiner.
Thanks Ed.
Good morning from Houston.
Looking back at the full year 2011 was a year of continued investment in our future and a growing conviction that we're on the right track in transforming our company for continued leadership in an evolving industry.
We produced strong free cash flow in 2011 despite volumes being below our original expectations which enabled us to invest in our future and position the company to accelerate our earnings as volumes improve.
2011 had a number of other positives.
We invested in programs to drive costs out of our system.
Those programs took hold throughout 2011 and we'll supplement them with new programs in 2012.
We saw volumes improve throughout the year and we expect to see continued improvement in 2012.
Recycling prices were strong through the first 3 quarters of 2011.
We added a number of recycling assets during the year and expect to add more in 2012 which will contribute to our continued growth in this strategic area.
And finally we supplemented our national accounts approach through our strategic acquisition of Oakleaf.
That will provide us a new platform to service national accounts while strengthening the Oakleaf vendor network.
Now turning to the recent quarter we had a very solid fourth quarter.
We earned $0.63 per share an increase of 5% compared to the $0.60 we earned in the prior year quarter.
Our collection landfill and transfer station businesses performed well during the quarter and had their best income from operations margin since 2006.
In the fourth quarter our total revenue growth from yield for our commercial and industrial lines of business recovered to the highs that we experienced in the first quarter of 2011.
And our commercial new business pricing was at the highest level since 2010.
Despite a very competitive market our fourth quarter results reflect our continued commitment to yield management.
On the volume side we've seen positive signs as each of our collection and MSW landfill lines of business have improved sequentially for 3 consecutive quarters.
We continue to benefit from strong growth in special waste and recycling commodity volumes.
Finally during 2011 we continued to produce strong cash flows and returned cash to our shareholders.
For the full year our net cash provided by operating activities was $2.5 billion.
We had over $1.2 billion of free cash flow and we returned $1.2 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share buybacks.
We also spent $867 million on acquisitions in 2011 about half of that was on our Oakleaf acquisition and the remainder primarily on recycling assets and tuck-in collection operations.
Turning to 2012.
We continue to see competitive pricing on new residential municipal contracts and in the commercial line of business.
Nevertheless we'll continue our disciplined approach to yield management.
In the first half of 2012 yield will be negatively affected by the effect of our waste-to-energy business on our yield and some rollbacks we implemented to extend municipal contracts.
But we expect yield to pick up in the back half of the year as many of the contract issues anniversary our second half municipal contracts CPI adjustments take effect and we maintain our focus on our core yields programs.
So overall we expect yield to average 1% to 1.5% for the year.
We expect the full year 2012 internal revenue growth from volumes to be flat to slightly positive compared with 2011.
In the first few weeks of 2012 we've seen a mild winter but until we see the seasonal uptick in volumes and positive volumes in MSW and commercial yards we're hesitant to say that margins will improve substantially in 2012.
During the fourth quarter recycling commodity prices declined approximately 8%.
For 2012 we expect recycling commodity sales prices to be below the 2011 average by about $15 to $20 per ton.
Even at these lower levels prices are still above the 5-year average and we will continue to invest in recycling assets to better meet our customers' increasing recycling needs.
And lower recycling commodity prices should have a negative year-over-year impact on earnings per share of approximately $0.03 to $0.05 most of which will occur in the first half of the year.
Also on the commodity front electricity prices have remained stubbornly low.
This will certainly have a negative impact on 2012 income from operations at our waste-to-energy plants.
We also have substantial rollbacks on tip fees in our South Florida waste-to-energy business.
At one of our plants below our tip fee went into effect last August.
And at the other plant it starts early this year.
In all we expect the year-over-year impact on diluted earnings per share from our waste-to-energy operations to be negative $0.04 to negative $0.06 per share.
Again virtually all in the first half of the year.
Our long-standing business model is to use yield and cost savings programs to offset inflation in our cost base in order to drive margin expansion.
And when volumes turn positive we get great leverage off of our high fixed cost base.
In the first quarter of 2012 yield will be muted and we'll reinvest some of our cost savings into our routing and logistics initiatives.
On top of that the first quarter is our seasonally slowest volume quarter so it will be very difficult for us to overcome the $0.05 to $0.06 of headwinds that we've mentioned for the first quarter.
But in the second quarter we'll see our seasonal uptick in volumes and earnings should improve.
Then in the third and fourth quarters we expect the headwinds to abate yield to pick up and we should get strong earnings benefits from our Oakleaf integration our cost programs and improving volumes.
The combination of all those positive trends in the second half of the year should drive substantial growth in earnings and margin expansion and allow us to achieve our 2012 targets.
We expect to achieve our second half and full year earnings growth by remaining focused on our 3 key long-term strategies namely knowing our customers better which will lead to higher sales and retention; investing in recycling and other diversion assets to extract more value from the waste stream; and investing in programs to increase our operational efficiency.
On the customer front we remain committed to increasing revenue by providing customized and unique solutions for our customers.
For example with municipalities we can offer a very impressive array of additional services.
We can offer single-stream recycling CNG trucks Bagster At Your Door household hazardous waste removal and recycling rewards through our new relationship with Recyclebank.
Another example of our customer focus is our Oakleaf acquisition which has accelerated our penetration into the retail and restaurant segments.
With respect to diversion assets in 2011 we increased our emphasis on recycling and also made some small investments in organic's processing assets.
And we continue to make small investments in new technologies.
We expect that some of these new technology companies will reach the public market in 2012 and 2013.
And we will continue to look for ways to maximize our return on those investments.
Finally in 2011 we focused on reducing costs through better supply chain management.
We achieved savings in our procurement of third-party transportation travel expenses and telecommunication costs.
In 2012 we expect these savings to accelerate and we expect to generate additional cost reductions.
For instance we will continue to improve the delivery of our services in the field through more efficient routes reduced unproductive time and better customer support with greater use of onboard computing technology and reengineering field processes.
In summary 2011 was a tough year but we finished it on a positive note with strong fourth quarter results that we will build upon going into 2012.
In 2012 the first half of the year will be harder than the second half of the year but we expect the back half of the year to provide solid earnings growth that will position the company well for continued earnings growth.
Our employees are focused on continuing the progress that we've made on our strategy and in 2012 we expect once again to accomplish our goals of growing our revenue increasing our return on invested capital and returning cash to our shareholders.
And with that I'll now turn the call over to Steve to discuss our fourth quarter results and our 2012 outlook in more detail.
Thank you David.
I'd like to review the contributions from yield and volume in the various lines of business to give you a better sense of trending going into this year and then I'll get into the drivers in some of the key expense and cash flow lines.
Revenue for the fourth quarter excluding Oakleaf's increased $94 million or 2.3% from the prior period.
This is the eighth consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue growth.
Our revenue improvement was driven by year-over-year increases in both field and acquisitions and we also began to see improving volume trends in many areas of business.
Internal revenue growth from yield on our collection and disposal operations was 1.4% in the quarter and 1.8% for the full year.
A change in pricing at one of our waste-to-energy plants in South Florida reduced fourth quarter yield by 30 basis points and the full year by 20 basis points.
So without this adjustment in South Florida the yield for the year would have actually been 2.0%.
The combined internal revenue growth from yield in our collection business was 2.6% in the fourth quarter with 4.1% growth in commercial 2.8% growth in industrial and 0.5% growth in residential.
In the landfill line of business internal revenue growth from yield was positive in both the MSW and C&amp;D segments.
That improvement was however offset by lower yield in special waste business which is highly variable based on the nature and the geography of the jobs.
The biggest drivers of the special waste decline were increased volume for soil and sludge jobs and an increase in lower price direct landfill jobs at our subtitle sea landfills.
But in total special waste was actually a good story because the overall business grew nicely in the quarter.
As in the past we will remain our commitment to yield improvement in 2012.
Our 2012 first half comparisons will be negatively affected by the rate reductions we accepted when we renewed our South Florida waste-to-energy contracts as well as major residential contracts.
In the second half pricing in most of these contracts will be comparable to the prior year and we should begin to see CPI price increases in a large number of residential franchises.
So our yield in the second half should benefit from more favorable comparisons.
On the volume side of the business internal revenue growth from volume declined 0.6% in the quarter which is actually encouraging since it's the smallest decline we've seen since before 2008.
In fact internal growth in our landfill and transfer station businesses is the best result we've seen since before 2008.
And in the collection line of business it's the best result since the third quarter of 2010.
More specifically internal growth from collection volumes declined 3.8% in commercial 2.2% in industrial and 1.3% in residential for the fourth quarter.
These collection volume declines were nearly offset by the landfill side of the business where fourth quarter 2011 internal growth was positive 4.9% which is the best quarterly performance we've seen in many years.
While MSW internal growth from volume was negative 2.8% it's a marked improvement from the negative 5.5% we saw in the third quarter of 2011 and the smallest decline since early 2010.
C&amp;D was slightly positive at 0.9% and special waste was positive at 12.9%.
In addition recycling improved 2% internally in the quarter and 9.1% including acquisitions.
Income from operations in the collection line of business improved 3.5% in the fourth quarter when compared to the same quarter of last year while operating margins increased 20 basis points.
We again increased our income from operations despite lower volumes by flexing our costs and maintaining our yield discipline.
The landfill business improved 4.6% when compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
And in both cases these are the best operating margins we've seen in these business lines since 2006.
Operating costs increased by $70 million in the fourth quarter to 62% of revenue compared to 61.2% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The increase primarily consists of direct fuel costs of $30 million recycling rebates of $13 million and acquisitions at $26 million.
As you know all of these items have offsets in the revenue line as well.
SG&amp;A costs were $367 million in the fourth quarter flat when compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
So as a percentage of revenue SG&amp;A costs improved 20 basis points to 11.3%.
In the fourth quarter higher wages and associated benefits were offset by savings related to lower professional fees and lower travel and entertainment costs.
We expect full year 2012 SG&amp;A costs to remain flat as a percentage of revenue.
At year end our weighted average cost to debt was 5.4% and our total debt-to-capital ratio for the quarter was 60.4% which is consistent with our target ratio of about 60%.
And the floating rate portion of debt in our total debt portfolio was 18% at the end of the quarter.
Our income tax rate as reported in the fourth quarter was 32.5%.
That reduction in our fourth quarter rate is primarily due to audit settlements as well as tax credits.
Turning now to cash flow.
Fourth quarter 2011 net cash flow provided by operating activities was $732 million.
This is an increase of $110 million from the fourth quarter of 2010 or 17.7%.
And the increase is primarily related to improvements in working capital.
Our capital expenditures in the fourth quarter were $415 million and our free cash flow for the quarter was $331 million.
So for the full year of 2011 free cash flow was over $1.2 billion after capital expenditures of approximately $1.3 billion and excluding the impact of litigation loss of $27 million.
In the fourth quarter we also paid $156 million of dividends and we repurchased $47 million of our common stock.
So for the full year 2011 we paid $637 million of dividends and we repurchased 575 million of our common stock returning over $1.2 billion to shareholders.
Our 2012 capital allocation plan allows us again to return up to $1.2 billion to our shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
Our Board has indicated an increase in our dividend of 4.4% to $1.42 per share on an annual basis resulting in a dividend yield of approximately 4.1%.
This is the ninth consecutive year of increasing dividends.
The dividend has grown from $0.01 a share in 2003 to $1.42 in 2012.
So for 2012 the anticipated dividend equates to $665 million being returned to shareholders.
The Board has also authorized up to $500 million in share repurchases.
As always the amount of share repurchases will depend on a number of items including changes from expected levels of capital expenditures business acquisitions and investments and debt repayments.
We expect between $150 million and $200 million $250 million in business acquisitions and investments and we expect capital expenditures of approximately $1.4 billion.
Free cash flow in 2002 (sic) [2012] is expected to be between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion and that includes a negative impact from bonus depreciation of approximately $200 million as compared to the 2011 cash taxes.
David also mentioned the impact in the first half of the year from commodity prices and from our waste-to-energy operations which should improve in the second half of 2012.
At the same time many of the drivers that will improve results in 2012 are more heavily weighted to the back half.
The benefits from the Oakleaf integration will be negligible in the first half of the year but are expected to accelerate in the second half as we complete the consolidation of our national account operations and we complete negotiations with our vendor hauler network to increase their use of our disposal facilities as well as our other services.
In addition the benefit from our operational improvement programs will increase throughout the year.
We've already begun to see the savings from our procurement programs which we will use in part to fund 2 other initiatives we've discussed with you in the past first driving efficiencies through routing technologies and not anymore computers and as well as streamlining our back office operations.
The field efficiency programs are already in 4 areas.
We'll continue to roll those out over the next 2 years.
And the back office programs are in development and they will begin to roll out in 2013.
So when you put it all together we expect 2012 will be a year of solid earnings growth and continuing strength in cash flows and we estimate that our 2012 fully diluted earnings per share will be between $2.22 and $2.30 a share.
So with that Regina we'd like to open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Scott Levine with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So with regard to your comments on price the guidance implies relative stability in 2012 versus what you reported in the fourth quarter.
I was wondering if you could comment on what kinds of trends you saw as the quarter played out.
And then I think David you mentioned commercial in addition to the municipal business.
I'm not sure whether there was any noteworthy development in that area whether there was any additional color from a regional perspective just looking for additional thoughts on price trend.
Yes Scott it's interesting when you look at 2012 and you're right we mentioned both municipal and commercial and the commercial business has always been highly competitive.
It always will be highly competitive.
And so you sort of see swings up and down.
Would I expect 2012 to be a year where we get great price increases like we got in 2011? Yes we're going to put those price increases out on the street.
The issue that we had in 2011 I expect to continue through 2012 is rollbacks on the commercial side of business.
And so from a competitive point of view what you're seeing is more and more pressure requiring rollbacks and then you're also seeing a lot of companies that are offering new business without fees and surcharges.
And so that's been the case forever.
I'm sure it will be the case forever and that's just what we have to deal with.
We've got to do a better job of making sure that we don't roll back those price increases because we'll continue to be aggressive but we're just rolling them back too much.
And then on the municipal side you are seeing a little bit different pricing environment.
It certainly -- those are big contracts and so it's certainly become more aggressive.
You've got municipalities that are facing budget shortfalls so they've become more aggressive.
And so when I look at 2012 the reason we will be like you say sort of flat to 2011 is that we've got to do a better job of the price rollbacks and we're going to see deterioration in the municipal contracts not just because it's competitive but as you know we've got that situation in South Florida with our Broward plant that all-in is going to have as I recall around a $20 million effect in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And maybe turning to Oakleaf.
So if I interpreted Steven's comments correctly net neutral to earnings year-over-year in the first half and then positive in the second half I'm assuming your guidance includes Oakleaf because I know you excluded that from your operating number in '11 is that correct? Yes that's right.
When you look at Oakleaf throughout the year there are 2 really primary pieces to that improvement.
First of all it's the consolidation of the operations for our national accounts.
And that is happening really beginning in the first quarter coming in ratably through the year.
The other piece really is important to the whole strategy that integration which is making sure that we work with our vendors to optimize this relationships longer-term both in terms of having a solid network in place and in terms of the financial benefit we get with those.
So our teams are out there right night now negotiating arrangements which will begin ticking in really now through the second quarter going into the third quarter as we begin to drive more volumes to our disposal facilities and broaden our relationships with those vendors.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
One last one if I may.
Looks like the earnings sensitivity on the waste-to-energy side is as large as it is on the recycling side.
Do you have a rule of thumb you can provide on EPS sensitivity to fluctuations on electricity pricing? A part of this is the Florida situation.
Is there an EPS sensitivity that we can use for waste-to-energy like we have with recycling or like you've given? I think when you look at the Wheelabrator impact it more -- it feels more heavily with specific contract situations where we went from a fixed price arrangement to market price or a change in the tipping fees.
Whereas there is some sensitivity obviously to electricity prices we're already at a very low level for electricity prices.
As you know those are tied to natural gas.
So we actually would expect to see less downside volatility on the electricity prices.
And hopefully none of us are expecting upside we're not projecting that but we're expecting that really pretty much to be flat this year.
So it's both a smaller item.
It's a lesser driver of the impact that we saw in Wheelabrator this year and we think that they are at relatively sustainable low levels right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Fisher with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I had just a couple of questions related to recycling on price environment really on the outlook for '12.
I think you mentioned you expected the commodity price to be down $15 to $20 and Dave what would that be roughly beyond a percentage basis? And then kind of related to that you're obviously growing recycling volumes very strongly I think up 9%.
With the acquisitions you did could that number be up double digits in '12? I'm just wanted to get some color on that.
Yes I think the $15 to $20 equates more sort of like to the 10% to 15% range on the commodity side.
We do expect to see continuing growth in volumes.
Some of those acquisitions will layer in positively in 2012 as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean could that be similar types of growth rates as you've seen in Q4? Does that kind of taper off? I think we should see similar growth rates but we also did a few acquisitions in the fourth quarter so you should see more volumes.
Now the interesting thing about those acquisitions is that the first probably 3 to 6 months you don't get a lot of earnings out of those deals.
And so we'll see higher volumes throughout 2012.
Obviously we'll see the earnings impact in the back half of the year from the new plant.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Hoffman with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> One of the questions I have on volume in the guidance container weights in the commercial business are you seeing a trend where your starting approach is 0 which suggests that after 3 years of economic recovery the consumers kind of found their behavior and so container weights should stabilize and therefore third-party volume come in hue [ph] with commercial that's a positive? Yes.
It's interesting you asked that Michael because it's always one of the areas that I look each quarter.
And surprisingly to me this quarter we saw container weights across the company actually positive and we saw them positive throughout each of the 4 geographic groups save one small area in the south.
So seeing the container weights come back certainly is good news.
But like we said we've been saying now for a couple of years we don't want to call a volume turn until we see sort of those core volumes like you say commercial volumes in MSW turned.
Right now a lot of our good volume numbers are being driven by special waste.
And as you know those can be cyclical as far as being event work.
And so until we see that commercial business turn positive and we see the MSW turn positive we don't want to call a turn in volumes but it certainly was an encouraging sign to see container weights up in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay and I get that.
So segueing into the special waste do you have a sense of a pipeline of activity coming into that year that you can sort of frame -- you had some double-digit volume changes in '11.
How do you think about those volume changes in light of your guidance in '12? What are we thinking about there? Yes I think we'll continue see strong volumes in special waste.
As you know the visibility on that is probably sort of the 3- to 6-month time frame so it is hard to say anything long-term.
But the jobs that we see coming into the first quarter particularly because we've had good weather so far for most of the first quarter the special waste continues to be strong.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you produced about 8.5% of revenues and free cash today.
What's its take one can you be a 10% free cash generator and if so when do we see that? What happens in the model if this is the economy to live in by way the economy isn't any different than it is right now how do you get to be a 10% free cash generator? Yes Michael if the economy stays the way it is right now first off obviously we have to drive additional cash generation.
And that's why we're investing in our cost programs right? We're also got to continue to get good yield and that's going to drive cash generation.
But then we've also got some fairly large numbers on CapEx.
It will be at $1.4 billion again this year.
And that's driven by the investment in fleet which as you know we underinvested in fleet with the regulatory changes for engines in 2007 and 2009 so we've got a little bit of catch-up to do there.
And then we've got investments that we need to make in the growth areas particularly recycling and other diversion assets.
And so while we're doing that the CapEx is a little bit higher.
Now we're not going to build out recycling assets forever.
At some point in time we're going to be done.
We're not going to be -- there may be some new other types of diversions that we invest in the future but we'll worry about those in the future.
And so the 3 things that drive it are getting our cost programs in our yield to drive more cash generation and then ultimately having a lower CapEx after we've built up our fleet and spend the money for the diversion assets we need to spend.
Research Division</strong> And when would you think the CapEx slows? Well we were roughly $1.3 billion last year.
We're saying $1.4 billion this year.
I certainly would expect that type of run rate sort of $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion for the next 2 years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on your guidance the bonus depreciation impact is assuming 50% or are you assuming that the President gets what he wants and it goes back to $100 million? No.
If goes back to $100 million we'd cut that impact in half.
So we think the impact will be about $100 million rather than the $200 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's a swing of $100 million in your free cash potential or is that 1 1 to 1 2? If there is a potential positive of $100 million over and above the guidance we gave if the 100% bonus depreciation passes.
Frankly Michael if we get that additional $100 million in cash we will likely invest it into the fleet to the last question to get there a little bit faster.
And for us investing in the fleet right now is a great thing because we can buy C&amp;G trucks which as you know have a great return great payback and obviously are better for our customers.
Research Division</strong> How big of a deal is that new engine that Cummins is coming out with in '13? Boy Michael you're going to talk to us about engines? I'm not going to -- I don't want to comment on any particular company's technology.
Obviously we're working with all of our vendors to make sure that we can get not only a more environmentally friendly truck but a more efficient truck from a weight point of view from a productivity point of view.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I was just curious if you thought it was a big -- it sounded big enough to wait for it is what I'm hearing.
Is it just keep buying and when it comes if that's the right engine you'll buy that one too.
We're certainly going to keep buying.
Your next question comes from line of Vance Edelson with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Could you comment specifically on the outlook for landfill pricing which is perhaps where you have the most control? Is this still one area where you can really put a stake in the ground and provide a target for the year in terms of pricing? Yes.
Vance I'm glad you mentioned that because as you all know landfill pricing has sort of been my quest for the last 3 years.
And we actually just recently brought in -- actually we will bring in Monday so we haven't brought in will bring in Monday a new gentlemen to run our pricing department and it's going to be one of the first things that I sit down with him to discuss is how do we get more traction at the landfill? In the fourth quarter when you look at it from a per unit basis our MSW was up about 3.2% in yield.
I think everybody's heard me say over the last few years that with the huge amount of capital that we have to put into landfills we've got to get better pricing.
And so I don't want to put a number around it quite yet because our new pricing director doesn't start until Monday but you can bet that's going to be one of the first things that I sit down and talk with him about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's good to hear.
And could you also provide an update on some of the JVs whichever ones are worth mentioning if it's Home Depot or Whole Foods how are the initiatives coming along? Are they profitable? Will they be soon? You mean JVs in terms of what? Research Division</strong> So in other words the Bagster and other stuff like that with Home Depot to get...
Yes yes yes.
Bagster we continue to see good growth in bags.
I mean obviously this is the seasonal downturn for that because folks aren't doing a lot of home improvement projects during the winter months.
But it's right on course where we wanted to be and it's a great product addition.
I will tell you the other initiatives the primary one they will look at is healthcare services and that's not going as fast as we'd like it to go but I think 2012 is going to be a year where we really start to see the offering gain some traction and we're certainly going to be very aggressive in going out and attracting that healthcare business.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Just one last question for me.
I think on pricing gates you had some in place for 2011.
Are those lifted for 2012? To the yield gate? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
Yes we actually lifted the yield gate last year and had yield as part of our overall compensation program.
And this year we've actually moved yield out of our compensation program.
So we're going to get it through good old-fashioned elbow grease.
Your next question comes from the line of Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
This is actually David Warner for Cory.
I have a question just to go back to commodity prices really quick.
It looks like you're seeing or you're assuming the largest impact in commodity prices in Q1.
I just wanted to get your thinking as to why you wouldn't see similar impacts in Q2 and Q3? Yes I think we're going to see commodity prices for the first half of the year continue.
So you're right we see the impact in Q1 more clearly because we're in the middle of it and we feel it's easier to estimate.
We're hoping that we'll see that curve increase seasonally as we get into the year.
If you look at the curve last year prices kind of peaked in March and sort of stayed up at that level and kind of went up and down for a while.
And we're expecting a more traditional increase in prices this year.
So we think it's going to continue be a headwind.
We just think it's going to compress a little bit relative to the curve last year.
Okay.
And one more.
Just some of your thoughts on Veolia assets and what your acquisition outlook is for 2012.
Yes when you look at acquisitions for 2012 as Steve said we're looking sort of $150 million to $250 million in tuck-in acquisitions recycling assets.
That's sort of our typical run rate.
We've said before that if we see opportunities whether it's investment or acquisitions that we always have the ability to manage our ability to do that through share repurchases but we don't see any big acquisitions in the pipeline.
Obviously there are a few Veolia being the big one that folks are talking about.
I think if there's one thing that our shareholders know about us is that we're going to be disciplined buyers.
And I wouldn't see any reason to buy any solid waste company at a higher multiple than where we trade because there's one company I know we can buy at a good multiple and that's our own.
And so if we do get involved in any acquisitions they will not be at numbers that would be above our own trading multiple.
Your next question comes from the line of Stewart Scharf with Standard &amp; Poor's.
Most of my questions have been answered.
I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about the trend rate and just how that's looking relative to last year.
It's a great point because obviously that has an effect on not so much on yield but on overall profitability.
And like I said before we're seeing the rollbacks increase.
We saw the churn rate increase a little bit.
It was about 10.9% in the quarter but it's been running slightly above 10% for the year.
And so it is another effect that we have going into 2012 from a yield perspective if you want to look at it that way.
But the churn rate is slightly up but nothing that will deter us from continuing our focus on yield management.
Your next question comes from the line of Al Kaschalk with Wedbush.
Just to the recycling question again I want to -- can you elaborate on what the mix of the material has changed or is changing or expected to change in '12 given the strong volume which appears to be more than compensating for some of that price decline that's expected? In other words are you seeing...
Higher price? The higher price mixed toward aluminum and other materials? Well I mean is 60% 70% of the material fiber-related or is it less than 50%? What's the composition of the recycling material? For us it's not the composition of the recycling; it's what you do with the composition of the recycling right? And so where we've been focused for the last year is when you get 5 returns in they can be in a lot of different classes.
They can range from very low price classes to very high price classes.
And so where we've been focused is to sort of if you will tweak those recycling assets to move the lower-priced tons into higher-priced tons right? And that has a marginal impact.
I would tell you that in my mind the mix issue in 2012 won't have a substantial impact.
The big impact is going to be driven by volumes and commodity prices.
And when you look at that so you look at volumes year-to-year they should get better from our new acquisitions but those new acquisitions take about 6 months of start-up mode before they turn profitable.
And so you're not getting a lot of first half benefit from the new volumes.
You start to get that benefit in the back half of the year both from volume and from price.
It seems like the -- what you laid out in terms of headwinds for '12 that we would be peaking in the headwind in the third quarter as opposed to the first quarter.
So I think there's something more there that we're not hearing but...
No.
I think we peaked in the first quarter on the headwinds.
It's sort of flat in the second quarter and then it turns better in the third quarter.
So it certainly peaks in the first quarter.
It's about the same in the second quarter but obviously as I mentioned you've got the seasonal uptick in volumes which makes up for some of that.
And then the headwinds are very slight in the third quarter and then they actually turn slightly positive in the fourth quarter.
You mean from a volume respective right David because...
Now from a -- just from an overall -- the 2 big headwinds are recycling and our waste-to-energy operations.
And there's a number of issues that go in that.
Obviously commodity price is the biggest new recycling and then there's a number of factors in waste-to-energy.
And so each of those factors turn either turn positive or they anniversary.
For example on our waste-to-energy plants where we have that South Florida contract that anniversaries in August.
And so they either become flat in the back half of the year or they turn positive.
What we look at on commodity pricing is that they're going to continue to be a little bit below last year in the third quarter but then they actually turn above last year in the fourth quarter.
So again you got a lot of headwinds in the first quarter about the same a lot of headwinds in the second quarter just a slight amount of headwinds in the third quarter and then flat to positive in the fourth quarter.
And then combine that with the positive effects of yield in the back half of the year obviously the uptick in volumes in the back half of the year and the uptick in yield in the back half of the year and that's where you get the earnings growth in the back half of the year.
Okay.
On Oakleaf prior to your acquisition you had a pretty big national accounts business.
If I was thinking about the integration it would seem that there would be some charges coming from that business.
Is that something we should be anticipating coming down the road here? Those are really incorporated in the guidance that we gave.
So we talked about benefits being the back half of the year and really negligible in the front half of the year.
First quarter we could see some pressure from that but that's all integrated in there.
And actually as we begin taking some of those costs we already begin recognizing some of the other benefits of the transaction.
So we'll probably have a little bit of pressure from it in the first quarter and that will probably go away in the second quarter by the time we get to the back half when we get to seeing net-net bottom line benefits.
So you might see a small restructuring charge in the first half of the year obviously that we normally exclude from earnings but it won't be a significant amount of money.
Okay.
And then finally if I may.
If I look back over couple of years right we have relatively $3.3 billion of I think EBITDA give or take a little bit.
And debts increased here quite a bit and you're comfortable it sounds like with a 60% debt-to-cap ratio if I heard you right.
But yet EBITDA isn't really growing and free cash flow has been relatively stable.
So there's a lot of moving parts in the economy but what can help to provide some visibility or guidance here to that EBITDA growing relative to where it has been staying flat over the last several years? Yes I mean first on 50% debt to cap when you talk about stability there's obviously a lot of positives to that stability even through the economic downturn we continue to generate that $1.2 billion-plus of free cash.
And so that's why we're very comfortable having a little higher debt balances than maybe some other companies that you look at.
But as far as the EBITDA goes it comes back to what I talked about earlier which is we've absolutely got to drive EBITDA through continued focus on our cost programs and managing yield.
And then as volumes start to improve we've got a very high fixed cost base.
So as the volumes start to improve obviously you've got great incremental margins at the landfill and you've got very good incremental margins on the collection line of business.
So we've got to -- we want to see that growth it's why I keep talking about the commercial line of business and the MSW volumes at the landfill because those are 2 of our highest margin highest contribution lines of business.
And as you see the volumes start to improve there that's when you start to see the leverage of this business take off.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the call over to David Steiner for any closing remarks.
Well thank you all.
We certainly think that we had a very solid fourth quarter and finished off a very good 2011.
We look forward to continued growth in 2012 and we look forward to seeing all of you all as we travel on the road during the year so thank you.
Thank you for participating in today's fourth quarter and year-end 2011 earnings release conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning today February 16 2012 at 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Standard Time through 11:59 p.m.
Eastern Standard Time on Thursday March 1 2012.
The conference ID for the replay is 38143289.
[Operator Instructions] The number to dial for the replay is (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406.
Thank you.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Ashley and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Waste Management First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Ed Egl Director Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Mr.
Ed Egl you may begin your conference.
Thank you Ashley.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
With me this morning are David Steiner Chief Executive Officer; and Steve Preston Executive Vice President of Finance Recycling and Energy Services.
David will start things off with a summary of the financial results of the quarter.
Steve will cover our revenue growth including price and volume trends operating costs and financial statements.
We will conclude with questions and answers.
During their statements any comparisons made by David and Steve unless otherwise stated will be with the first quarter of 2011.
Before we get started let me remind you that in addition to our earnings press release that was issued this morning we have filed a Form 8-K that includes the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 and is available on our website at www.wm.com.
The Form 8-K the press release and the schedule for the release include important information that you should refer to.
During the call you will hear certain forward-looking statements based on current expectations projections estimates opinions or beliefs about future periods.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of these risks and uncertainties are detailed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Form 10-K.
Additionally during the call David and Steve will discuss our earnings per diluted share which they may refer to as EPS or earnings per share on an "as adjusted" basis.
Our EPS has been adjusted to exclude items detailed in our earnings press release that management believes do not reflect our fundamental business performance or are not indicative of our results of operations.
Adjusted EPS projected 2012 EPS and free cash flow are non-GAAP measures.
Please refer to the earnings press release footnote and schedule attached thereto which can be found on the company's website at www.wm.com for reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP measures and additional information about the use of non-GAAP measures.
David and Steve will also discuss our results in the areas of internal revenue growth from yield and internal revenue growth from volume.
Unless stated otherwise please note that any references to yield or volume results are more specifically referring to internal revenue growth from yield or volume.
This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning approximately 1 p.m.
Eastern Time today until 5:00 p.m.
Eastern Time on May 10.
To hear a replay of the call over the Internet access the Waste Management website at www.wm.com.
To hear a telephonic replay of the call dial (855) 859-2056 and enter reservation code 61793696.
Time-sensitive information provided during today's call which is occurring on April 26 2012 may no longer be accurate at the time of the replay.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Waste Management is prohibited.
Now I will turn the call over to Waste Management CEO David Steiner.
Thanks Ed.
Good morning from Houston.
The first quarter of 2012 showed encouraging signs that our core solid waste business continues to do well and to improve and that our cost reduction efforts are beginning to take hold.
We did have some big challenges in the quarter that we had to overcome and we did so.
During our fourth quarter earnings call we discussed $0.05 to $0.06 of headwinds that would negatively impact our earnings per share when compared to the first quarter of 2011.
These headwinds occurred as expected and we had an additional $0.01 of headwind from higher fuel costs but our core solid waste operations helped to offset those headwinds.
We saw our procurement and other savings programs continue to take hold and we saw improving volumes due to our customer-focused growth initiatives.
All of this allowed us to overcome the significant headwinds to earn $0.38 per share which was slightly down as we said it would be in our full year guidance earlier this year.
So the decrease was expected and $0.38 per share gives us a good start toward achieving our full year target.
Looking at our volumes our customer-focused growth initiatives are beginning to gain traction with customers and in the quarter we signed a contract with one of the largest national big box retailers.
Our public sector team also showed good progress in the quarter.
We won a number of municipal bids by offering differentiated services like single-stream recycling recycling rewards and household hazardous waste removal which the municipalities increasingly require as part of their sustainability efforts.
Our manufacturing and industrial segment grew our oilfield environmental services revenue dramatically in the quarter.
And in our health care segment we added a number of new hospital accounts including one of the premier hospitals in the country.
So our customer-focused growth initiative is gaining traction with customers and we expect it to continue to pick up steam.
Internal revenue growth from volumes was positive in the first quarter even after adjusting for the additional 1.3 workdays in 2012.
This is the first positive overall volume growth we've seen since the second quarter of 2006.
We saw a positive volume growth in our industrial or roll-off volumes for the first time since the second quarter of 2006.
MSW volumes were positive for the second consecutive quarter and special waste volumes continued the strong growth that we've seen over the last 4 quarters.
Although volumes in our commercial and residential lines of business remain negative we saw sequential improvement in the rate of decline in those volumes.
Certainly good weather across the country helped volumes as compared to last year when we had harsher winter weather.
Looking forward we expect to see volumes running about that 0.4% growth rate that we saw in the first quarter.
Looking at our yield in the first quarter of 2012 we continue to see the same trends that we saw in 2011.
We saw competitive pricing on new residential municipal contracts and in the commercial line of business but we maintained our pricing discipline and saw a positive growth from both yield and volume in our industrial MSW and C&amp;D lines of business as well as in our overall company results.
Of course we're not satisfied with yield at 1.2% but that number is not a true reflection of our commitment to pricing discipline.
To see what's really happening in our pricing programs we look at what we call core price increases or increases to current customers.
Core pricing is basically price increases plus all fees other than our fuel surcharge less all price rollbacks to commercial and industrial customers.
When we look at the core price component of yield it increased 3.1% in the first quarter which was virtually identical to last year.
We achieved that despite higher rollbacks in 2012 than we had in 2011 so you can see that we've maintained our commitment to our pricing programs but we can certainly improve the net effect to our bottom line by better managing our rollbacks and our fee programs.
Average recycling commodity prices were 20% lower during the first quarter when compared to the first quarter of 2011.
This resulted in approximately a $0.03 decline in our earnings per share for the first quarter of 2012.
On a positive note the average price for OCC has trended up each month throughout the quarter and has remained above the 5-year average.
We projected that the price of OCC would improve from the December levels when we issued our 2012 guidance but we do still expect to see additional commodity price headwinds in the second and third quarters of 2012.
In the fourth quarter we expect to see slightly favorable year-over-year comparisons in recycling commodity prices.
For the full year we still project that the lower recycling commodity prices should have a negative year-over-year impact on earnings per share of approximately $0.05.
Turning to our waste-to-energy business.
Average electricity pricing declined a little more than 8% in the first quarter when compared to the first quarter of 2011.
We experienced headwinds in the first quarter of 2012 from rollbacks on tip fees in our South Florida waste-to-energy business as well as low electricity pricing.
Those drove a $0.02 drag on earnings per share for the first quarter compared to the first quarter of 2011.
We still expect the full year impact on earnings per share from our waste-to-energy operations to be approximately a negative $0.06 compared to 2011.
In order to achieve our full year earnings growth we continue to focus on our 3 key long-term strategies: first knowing our customers better which will lead to higher sales and retention; second investing in recycling and other conversion assets to extract more value from the waste stream; and third investing in programs to increase our operational efficiency.
From a customer perspective our Oakleaf acquisition is progressing very smoothly.
Our combined offerings were pivotal in winning the bid for the national big box store chain that I mentioned earlier.
The combined offering is also quickly spreading among our sales force and we're in the final stages of wrapping up a number of other large bids.
The customers appreciate that the Waste Management and Oakleaf combination provides a wide breadth of differentiated offerings that help customers meet their sustainability goals.
This is exactly the kind of business combination synergy that we anticipated when we purchased Oakleaf.
With respect to extracting value from the waste stream customers are increasingly asking for new methods of handling their waste and we're well positioned as the leader in recycling and other conversion technologies.
We've made a number of investments in alternative technologies and in other non-core assets and we would expect some of them to be monetized over the next 18 months.
We also continue to make investments in recycling assets.
Turning to our efficiency efforts our procurement initiatives continued to take hold throughout the organization and perform as expected delivering about $0.01 of earnings per share in the quarter.
We're using these cost savings to help pay for deployment of our onboard computer systems and our routing and logistics improvements.
To-date our spending has been higher than our savings as we gear up for these initiatives but we should begin to see some savings in the programs in the back half of the year and they should increase in 2013 as we roll out the program to all of our business units.
In summary we're on plan through the first quarter and encouraged by the pickup in our overall internal revenue growth.
Recycling and waste-to-energy will continue to be a drag in the second quarter.
However we expect the second half of the year to benefit from improved pricing a normal seasonal volume uptick procurement savings and integration of our acquired Oakleaf operations.
By continuing the focus and hard work that each of our 44 000 employees put into the first quarter we expect to achieve our full year earnings guidance of between $2.22 and $2.30 per share.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Steve to discuss our first quarter results in more detail.
Thank you David.
I'm going to begin by expanding on David's discussion of yield and volume in our business lines then I'll go into the drivers of expense and cash flow.
Revenue for the first quarter increased $192 million or 6.2% from the prior-year period.
This is the ninth consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue growth.
Our revenue improvement was driven by increases in acquisitions primarily Oakleaf as well as positive internal revenue growth both from yield and volume.
As David mentioned some of that was offset by a decrease in revenue from lower commodity pricing.
Yield on our collection and disposal operations grew 0.9% in the first quarter.
Adjusting for the change in pricing at our waste-to-energy plants in South Florida our yield growth for the first quarter of 2012 would have been 1.2%.
More specifically in the collection business yield grew 1.4% in the quarter.
Commercial and industrial grew 2.2% and residential was essentially flat.
As we've mentioned in the past in the landfill line of business the most important indicator of yield is MSW which grew 1.8%.
This is the highest yield in MSW that we've seen in the past 5 quarters.
In addition C&amp;D yield improved 2.5%.
And special waste yield which has a highly variable pricing based on the type and the location of the work was negative 2.1%.
This brought down the overall yield for disposal to 0.2%.
Overall internal volume growth was 1.3% in the quarter and 0.4% when you adjust for the additional workdays.
This is the first time since the second quarter of 2006 that we've seen positive volume growth.
Volume growth in our landfill and industrial businesses was also the best result that we've seen since 2006.
And while volumes declined in our commercial and residential lines of business the rate of that decline was the best that we've seen since before 2005.
More specifically collection volumes declined 2.2% in commercial and 0.8% in residential.
In industrial business volumes grew by 2.8%.
So we're encouraged to see growth again in roll-off which is the most economically sensitive of the 3 collection lines of business.
On the landfill side volumes grew 7.5% which is the best quarterly performance that we've seen in several years.
Volumes grew 3.0% in MSW 1.4% in C&amp;D and 16.9% in special waste.
That increase in special waste was primarily in our Eastern and Midwest groups where we can see the direct impact of our customer-focused growth initiatives.
In addition recycling volumes improved 2.6% organically in the quarter and 12% when you include acquisitions.
We remain committed to extracting value from the materials that we collect and that has been evident in the significant growth in volumes that we've been producing in recycling.
With improved internal revenue growth from both yield and volume income from operations in the landfill business improved 13.7% when compared to the first quarter of 2011 and operating margins improved 200 basis points which demonstrates the stong incremental margins that we realized when we add volume in that landfill business.
This represents the best first quarter that landfill has had since 2008.
Operating costs increased $171 million in the first quarter to 65.7% of revenues compared with 64.3% in the first quarter of 2011.
The largest driver was subcontractor costs which increased $96 million.
That was primarily related to the addition of Oakleaf which delivers most of its services through third parties.
The remaining $75 million of increase consist of approximately $30 million related to the additional workdays in the first quarter of 2012; labor costs increasing due to acquisitions; new recycling plant start-ups; and the 2011 annual merit increase.
Higher commodity prices contributed to an increase in our cost for tires parts and lubricants as well and direct fuel cost increased $18 million.
SG&amp;A costs were $407 million in the first quarter up $25 million.
That was roughly in line with the first quarter last year as a percentage of revenue.
The acquisition of Oakleaf added approximately $15 million and our investment in customer-focused growth added about $8 million.
We also internalized important implementation competencies to support our cost savings programs focused on procurement operational and back-office efficiency.
By doing so we reduced our consulting spend for a net benefit of $6 million.
The benefits from these 2 programs will be reflected initially in operating costs but also in SG&amp;A over time.
Our core collection and disposal lines expanded margins significantly contributing 50 basis points of improvement to the overall margin of the company.
However the recycling and waste-to-energy headwinds that David mentioned reduced margins by 100 basis points.
Our acquisition of Oakleaf further reduced margins 70 basis points and fuel impacted margins negatively by 20 basis points.
So as a result our income from operation margin declined 150 basis points when compared to the first quarter of 2011.
At the end of the quarter our weighted average cost of debt was 5.2% and our debt-to-total capital ratio was 60.3% consistent with our target ratio of about 60%.
And the floating rate portion of our total debt portfolio was 19% at the end of the quarter.
Our income tax rate as reported for the first quarter of 2012 was 32.8%.
That compared with 35.9% in 2011.
That improvement was in part due to energy tax credits that were awarded in the first quarter of 2012.
We would expect the tax rate for the year to be slightly below 35%.
Turning to cash flow first quarter 2011 net cash provided by operating activities was $475 million.
That's a decrease of $125 million from the first quarter of 2011.
That decrease is primarily related to changes in working capital.
There were clearly working capital timing issues we had some of which will work themselves out during the course of the year.
For example the quarter ended on a Saturday so we had an extra salary payroll which negatively impacted working capital by $32 million.
In addition tax payments fell more heavily in Q1 this year than they have in other years.
Our capital expenditures in the first quarter were $379 million an increase of $63 million.
As we mentioned on the last call we're expecting higher CapEx this year in part from our investment in CNG trucks and a significant portion of these trucks have already been purchased year-to-date.
Our free cash flow for the first quarter was $102 million and as the year progresses we would expect to generate between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion of free cash flow for the year as earnings improve and we focus on effective capital management.
We returned $164 million to shareholders through our first quarter dividend as we invested $124 million in acquisitions.
And as we have mentioned we expect sequential improvement in our financial result throughout the year for very specific reasons.
David already mentioned the impact of commodity prices and from our waste-to-energy operations both of which should improve in the back half of 2012.
And while the benefits from Oakleaf integration continue to be minimal in the second quarter we expect them to accelerate in the second half as we complete this consolidation of our national account operations and complete negotiations with our vendor hauler network to increase their use of our disposal facilities and other services.
In addition we're on track to increase benefits from our operational improvement programs throughout the year.
So far the year is proceeding as expected and we are on track to achieve our full year objectives.
So with that Ashley we would like to open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Scott Levine with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So yes I mean it seems like from your results really the volumes were probably the most notable upside variance versus our expectations.
It seems like the business environment is at a minimum as good as you expected.
And maybe you can help us understand because I know typically you don't get a great read on the seasonal uptick until May June but how much of this upside from volumes -- and it seems like you think that should be sustainable going forward how much of that is the weather versus any improvement you're seeing on the cyclical front? Yes Scott as you know weather does have a big effect on our business.
And I think everybody's been hearing for example retailers talk about how the first quarter was helped by good weather and so they actually see their volumes go up.
We're a little bit different.
When the weather is harsh and volumes go down we don't generally see pent-up demand and see more waste as the weather gets worse.
I expect it to be the same way here which is just because folks went out and shopped more it doesn't mean that they're getting rid of their waste and there's going to be less waste going forward.
So we probably aren't as affected by weather as some companies.
So I don't expect it to have a big negative effect in the second quarter.
In other words I don't think that people did their business in the first quarter and they're going to stop doing business in the second quarter.
So the weather certainly helped us in the first quarter.
I don't see it hurting us in the second quarter and we haven't seen any evidence of that in volumes going forward in April.
So from our perspective it's great news that we saw the volumes turn positive at 0.4% workday adjusted.
We're expecting to see about that kind of level for the rest of the year and frankly to see about the same kind of mix right? We still continue -- we expect to see strong landfill volumes strong special waste volumes and to see the overall volumes grow slightly.
Research Division</strong> Does your confidence in the macro environment and the impact on volumes improve since the last earnings call? Or is it consistent with the last earnings call? When I look at the economy I think we all would agree that the economy is sort of slow and steadily improving.
You know that we generally sort of lag the economy.
And so even if we saw a dramatic change to the economy I wouldn't see our volumes dramatically change over the next few quarters.
So I think we're pretty confident that we're going to see positive volumes for the full year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then turning maybe to pricing could you help us -- I mean the pricing number was -- it was in line with your guidance it was in line with what you were looking for.
Is your expectation -- maybe if you can just characterize the competitive landscape number one and what impact CPI-linked pricing is expected to have in your overall pricing metrics as the year progresses.
Yes from a competitive point of view I don't think we've seen a big change.
Look as you all know this has always been a very competitive business and you see some pockets of more competitive actions throughout the country.
In some places you see a more rational behavior.
So I haven't seen a dramatic change during the course of the year.
And then on the CPI front it's interesting when we look at the yield -- and it's very important to note that we basically got these 2 big components of yield what we would call the core price increases on the commercial and industrial customers and those are running just like we want them to.
The problem is that we're losing some money on the other side.
It happens to be the same way on the residential line of business.
So we're expecting to get a pickup in the back half of the year from CPI but some of that pickup gets given away as we've made some small price concessions to renew contracts for a longer term and as we've seen sort of the service offerings to municipalities change.
So we won't see a dramatic pickup from CPI in the back half of the year but certainly it's going to support the pricing programs.
And our next question comes from the line of Vance Edelson with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> On the competitive front it sounds like the smaller players are still fairly aggressive but you're saying disciplined.
Any signs of changing behavior on their part since they might be feeling the pinch of the higher diesel and the lower commodity prices a little bit more than you are? Are they perhaps staying a bit more disciplined as a result of those pressures? Yes it's a great point.
I've always said to a certain extent the high fuel prices are our friends because we have a fuel surcharge that generally covers it.
As you know this quarter we were $0.01 behind on fuel net of our fuel surcharge.
But the small local competitors that don't have a fuel surcharge have 2 choices make less money or raise their prices.
I wouldn't say that's had a dramatic effect.
A lot of -- yes I think fuel surcharges have become a lot more common across the entire industry whether it's the national players or the small local folks.
And so I wouldn't say Vance that we've seen a dramatic change in their behavior.
But as you know the longer fuel stays up high the more they're going to have to react to it.
So I would think over time it can't but help the pricing programs.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's terrific.
And any granularity you can provide on what's driving the strength in roll-off? I assume it's commercial construction not a lot of single-family work at this point.
But given what you've seen in past cycles what's your outlook on what's going to be the stronger driver for roll-off over the next 6 months? Yes for us it's interesting because I think everybody has seen a little bit of improvement on the construction side.
But for us we've been talking a lot lately about customer-focused growth and the positive roll-off volumes for us is a perfect example of customer-focused growth.
We've got our oil field environmental services segment now that didn't exist 2 years ago because customers weren't asking for it.
And then as you've seen drilling for natural gas in the Marcellus Shale and other areas of the country you've started to see need for both solid waste and liquid waste disposal.
That was a business that 2 years ago didn't exist.
This year we'll do north of $100 million in revenue in that line of business.
Most of it is going to be in roll-off.
So for us it's a matter of saying "Okay if there's not going to be a big construction turn how are we going to put these assets to use and what do our customers need?" Our oilfield environmental services has been a great addition to our business.
It started primarily in our Eastern group but now spreading across the country and it's great work at great margins.
And our next question comes from the line of Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on the oilfield service side.
Is the majority of the roll-off solid or liquid or how do you make that split [ph]? The majority of that would be solid drill cuttings basically from wells.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
David if you take a step back on the business -- and I know there's a lot of dynamics going on here and a lot of initiatives if I look at the margin profile we still seem to be tracking downward.
And I don't know if that's something that's frustrating on your part or not but clearly it's something that to me looks like either the rollbacks are being very aggressive or the mix of business you're going after is lower-margin business in general.
So with all of the recycling recovery following the resource or waste stream to recover resources and commodities can you talk about that maybe as we look further out here than just maybe a quarter profile? Yes absolutely.
And you're absolutely right when you talk about the margins.
I think everybody that's followed this business since I took over as CEO knows that one of the core fundamental metrics that we focus on at this company is expanding our margins.
And so it's absolutely frustrating to see them going backwards.
I would say a couple of things.
First just when you start to make some progress on the cost side and you start to see progress on the volume side you see the commodity side go backwards.
So of the 150 basis points of margin deterioration 100 of it is from waste-to-energy and recycling.
Pure simple commodity prices not a heck of a lot we can do about that if we want to stay in those businesses.
And increasingly recycling is a business that you have to have in order to meet customer needs on the solid waste side.
So of the 150 basis points 100 basis point slides out the door right there.
Another 70 basis points slide out the door with the Oakleaf acquisition because until we fully monetize that -- basically what's going on right now is we want to keep that third-party vendor network together so that we can increase landfill volumes and let them maintain the collection volumes.
But that takes a lot of negotiations with a lot of vendors.
And that's not going to happen until sort of the third quarter of this year.
So it's been a little slower integrating those folks frankly than we had expected.
But you basically got very low-margin brokerage business that we're maintaining because we don't want to put that volume on our trucks.
We want to put it into the third-party vendor network as long as that third-party vendor network brings volumes to our landfills where we get higher margins.
So that's 170 basis points right there between commodity prices and Oakleaf.
If you don't have that you've got positive margins.
And then you got another 20 basis points of fuel.
Again not a heck of a lot we can do there but we -- our revenue goes up because fuel goes up but it doesn't have a dramatic effect on our earnings because of the fuel surcharge.
And so you got 190 basis points a little over it when you round them up basically 200 basis points of margin deterioration in areas that we can't do a heck of a lot about without which obviously we would have a nice expansion of margin.
So look at some point in time we're looking to see all this stuff pull together and be positive.
That some point in time is the back half of this year when we start to see the effects of the commodities turn positive and when we see the Oakleaf integration coming forward.
Fuel we can't do anything about but as we start to see that we should see the margin start to turn around again.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then just a follow-up.
You've talked about monetization of some of the investments you have made over the last couple of years.
Should those not hit -- I guess monetization being the public market primarily does that change perhaps strategy going forward on how you partner with potential customers or the generators of waste streams? Because theoretically if there's some new technology out there that you don't have control over that may evolve how volumes or resources are recovered.
So just if you could just maybe talk about a little bit of the visibility on that in terms of strategy.
Yes absolutely.
We've got -- so we've made non-core investments both in conversion technologies and then in alternative energy.
And we've also made some investments in traditional carbon-based energy assets right? And so when we talk about monetizing some of those assets I'm looking forward to monetizing those assets because we've been investing in them over the last 3 years.
But we will not monetize those assets in such a manner that it would give up our strategic advantage right? And so obviously if we monetize some of our carbon-based assets that doesn't have a dramatic effect on our strategy.
As far as the conversion technologies go we could monetize some of those given an opportunity while still maintaining the commercial relationships that we have which is what gives us the competitive advantage.
And our next question comes from the line of Bill Fisher with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Had a couple of questions on the savings and efficiency initiatives you have.
You mentioned procurement and can you touch on some specific areas there and where you expect bigger savings it sounds like in the second half from some of that.
Yes I mean this is Steve.
Yes procurement hits a number of things.
We've worked through contracts in third-party transportation on the IT side on the telecom side and it really goes through a number of our spend categories and it continues to ramp up through this year.
So it's really no one area.
We're looking really across a number of spend categories and continue to layer on additional categories.
I think we mentioned in the quarter it was about $0.01 a share.
We can -- we expect that year-over-year benefit to continue even though we began to recognize some of that late last year.
So it's going to be a pretty consistent contributor very significant in absolute dollars but also significant in terms of year-over-year benefit.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And that $0.01 will that pick up or kind of just run in that kind of range in the next couple of quarters? I think it will run in that range on a year-over-year benefit.
But by definition that means it's going to grow throughout the year.
Now if you look at some of the other things we're doing and I think we discussed this but there is a portion of that that's going -- that's being funneled back into other initiatives.
And I think what we've described in the past when we look at our transformation agenda there are really 3 components to it: you've got purchasing goods and services more effectively which is the procurement piece; you have delivering our services in the field more effectively and efficiently which is where we talk about onboard computers and improving our routing efficiencies; and then over time becoming more streamlined in the back office.
Obviously a company this size has very significant back office functions.
So procurement is really the lead vehicle in that 3-stage operational transformation.
Right now we're investing heavily as well in that field-based transformation which we think is really where a lot of the excitement goes because it's not only cost-based it actually improves our effectiveness in the field; it helps us to be more customer-centric; we can be more responsive with our services.
So there's a much broader benefit there.
And then beyond that we think just given the scope of our back office operations that will be pretty significant as well.
So I think net-net as you get later in the year when all is said and done the net contribution to the bottom line you'll actually see a net positive in the back half of the year certainly going into 2013.
But there is going to be a re-funneling of some of that benefit into these longer-term initiatives really through 2013.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then do you expect any improvement from the first half to second half on some of the newer consolidated business ventures like whether it be medical waste Baxter or whatever that might be? Yes we do.
We absolutely do.
And one of the exciting things I think on the health care side for example is not only are we working to make that business more efficient but we've had some very nice wins recently in that business.
We're beginning to augment our service line by partnering with other people that do unique recycling or other services within the medical waste stream.
And certainly it has continued to support our ability to get MSW-type business with hospitals.
So we think that's going to be year-over-year a pretty positive move in the right direction.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Hoffman with Wunderlich.
Research Division</strong> David a question we've asked in the past is to do with container weights and trying to understand on a same-store basis what the behavior of the consumer is translating to your container weights.
Can you talk about that? Yes container weights for us were slightly down Michael.
Nothing dramatic and not really different from the trend that we've seen over the last -- frankly over the last 2.5 years.
So we've always said that if you look at our business you'll really know the turn is here when MSW turns positive and when commercial volumes turn positive.
MSW obviously has been positive now for 2 quarters.
We still haven't seen that turn on the commercial business.
And quite frankly looking forward during the course of the year I'm not sure we'll see a turn in the commercial business.
It's getting better but it's stubbornly slow.
And we still don't see -- looking at the volumes at least for the beginning of the second quarter we certainly don't see any real big pickup on the commercial side.
Research Division</strong> And is there -- can you isolate a region and say that region is causing the whole thing to be that outcome? Or is this kind of evenly dispersed around the country? Yes on the industrial side you've got a lot more regional differences.
The commercial side not as much.
But on the overall business the East and the Midwest is certainly performing.
We've talked about it over and over which is this is an interesting recession in that -- because it was driven by housing.
Usually the West and the South is sort of our last-in/first-out.
This one was a little bit different.
They were first-in they're going to be the last-out because it's driven by housing which in the South and the West is much bigger than in the East and the Midwest.
So right now we're seeing the Midwest perform as well as they have ever performed both on a price and a volume perspective.
The East is doing a spectacular job not only managing the business but growing the business in the new lines like through the Marcellus Shale.
And then the South and the West frankly continue to struggle with volumes because we just haven't seen that turn in housing yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the context of -- just a clarification.
When you say MSW what's the source of MSW because I think of the commercial market is being MSW.
So MSW when you say that word what's the source of it? Yes it's commercial.
It's certainly commercial and then it's the residential also.
Research Division</strong> Okay so a combination of the 2.
Right.
Research Division</strong> So in that same question on your positive landfill volume what's the mix of what's positive? Is it MSW or is it C&amp;D and/or special waste? What's the driver of the positive there? Yes special waste has been the big driver now for a number of quarters.
I mean we've seen some great growth in special waste over the last 6 quarters.
We've got a good pipeline going forward so we expect special waste to continue to be strong throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> And are you seeing it being driven by the private sector versus government stimulus like it was in '10 and '11? Yes I think that's fair.
And again special waste is pretty dramatically different between the groups.
You see a much stronger both growth and pipeline in the Midwest and the East than you do in the West and the South.
Research Division</strong> And then I know margins matter to you and I remember your recurring thesis about this.
But at the end of the day most of your incentives are driven around return on capital.
So how do you think about the direction of your returns in the face of where your margins are going because recycling might be a lower-margin business but it could have great returns.
No I think you're exactly right Michael.
And it's what we've been preaching since the day I joined which is we focus much more on return on capital than we -- if we had one metric to focus on it would be return on capital.
That is what drives value in the business.
And look I think this is an industry that 2 things have happened to over the last few years.
You see a much greater movement toward diversion assets which have lower margin and -- but higher return on capital right? And you've seen landfill volumes come down fairly dramatically which when you have a huge capital base drives down return on capital.
So I think everybody knows that our strategy is to make sure that we're meeting customer needs with the diversion asset.
And the good news is those diversion assets happen to have a great return on capital although they are going to have a lower margin generally.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last question are you all going to sign the NDA to look at the Veolia book or will you pass so you don't lose your opportunity to bid on contracts or hire employees? Well I can't read French so I haven't been able to read the agreement myself.
Frankly we don't comment on any particular acquisitions Michael.
So we'll -- obviously we'll do what we think is the right thing for Waste Management.
Our next question comes from the line of Hamzah Mazari with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is Chris Parkinson on behalf of Hamzah.
Most of my questions have been answered but just real quick.
On the pricing front can you talk a little bit about where landfill pricing is running right now and how aggressive you could -- we can expect you to be as volumes recover and then basically just relative to last week what we can expect? Yes so again when we look at landfill pricing we focus predominantly on MSW right? And when you look at MSW on a per unit basis it's running at about 2.5% which is pretty consistent with where we've been over the last few years.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then just outside of anything French could you also just comment on your acquisition pipeline and kind of your use of capital and what you're seeing on the valuation front from some smaller deals? Yes this is Steve.
I think we're seeing a pretty normal year in terms of that in the acquisition pipeline.
I don't think there's anything notable beyond what we typically see.
And so as a result we really haven't anything out there that is different from what we typically see on the acquisition side.
Our next question comes from the line of Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
This is David Warner for Cory.
Most of my questions have also been answered but I wanted to touch back on the operating margin goal for 2013.
I think previously you'd indicated a target of 200 to 300 basis points of improvement in 2013.
I'm wondering if you're still considering that reasonable and what kind of assumptions as far as recycled commodity prices and volume and yield growth are you sort of assuming with those targets? Yes.
Obviously it's a little early to start thinking about 2013 but the basic assumption that we have for that is it basically goes to what happened this quarter.
The assumption that we have is that we're not going to see a drag on yield from our WMRA and our Wheelabrator operations.
And those should abate into 2013 as the comps get easier.
The assumption is that we're going to integrate our Oakleaf business into our business and we're not going to see margin deterioration from that.
And obviously we never assume that fuel is going to go up or down in our margin calculation.
So whether we get a benefit or a detriment from that we wouldn't expect that to happen.
And so again if those hadn't happened in this quarter you would have seen that 50 basis points of margin expansion.
Add on top of that the cost programs our yield programs and volumes turning positive and you can see where the margin expansion comes from.
Obviously that's easy to say but we've got to see some improvement in our waste-to-energy and our recycling operations.
And the harder part is we've got to get the vendor network integrated into the Waste Management network for Oakleaf.
And our next question comes from the line of Tatiana Vasilyev with Brown Brothers.
Yes just few questions.
First just a follow-up on the volumes.
I'm getting -- rental [ph] volumes.
I'm getting a little confused.
You guys report volumes on the press release and then you said they were up 7.5% this quarter.
I mean they're not up 7.5% on what you reported so I'm just curious what am I missing there? Yes I think what you're seeing in the press release schedules is actual tons that we generate or that we collect versus our IRG calculation which is the organic growth that we have right? And so the press release would include acquisitions.
It includes intercompany volumes which are not included in our IRG calculation.
So that's what explains the difference.
So when we look at -- when we do our what we call our IRG volume calculation which was basically 0.4% workday-adjusted that is the organic growth in our volumes in the business.
Okay.
And the second question is on your working capital you mentioned that -- I mean it wasn't a huge use this quarter and you say it's going to improve over the course of the year.
So it's going to become a source? And I mean what are your thoughts there? Yes let me cover that one.
This is Steve.
What we saw in the first quarter -- if you look at the first quarter of last year working capital in our cash flow is much more favorable than this year okay? And there are a couple of things -- and that had a heavy impact on our first quarter cash flow.
So that's what we wanted to call out.
What we wanted to call out was even though there was a significant impact in the first quarter as we get into the year some of the factors that drove that working capital use will actually come much more in line and sort of even out throughout the year.
One of those things for example is we had a payroll at the end of the quarter and that increased our use of cash by $30 million.
That obviously evens out throughout the year.
We also had some other timing issues.
And so because it was such a significant swing from first quarter last year to first quarter of this year we wanted to highlight it.
And certainly as we get into the year when we think about working capital management it really is pretty much about receivables and payables and we just -- we're going to be focusing very heavily on managing those items throughout the year.
Okay.
And just last one on the Oakleaf.
How should we model it? I mean on the volume side should we just add Oakleaf volumes which is if I remember correctly about 5 million tons.
Some you might lose probably to the landfill or something changed? I think if you look at the Oakleaf tons increasingly throughout the year we think they're primarily going to be landfill tons and a portion of those will be going to our landfills.
And just to kind of expand on what David said a big focus for us right now is to negotiate with that network of third-party vendors so that if we're giving them a ton of Oakleaf business they're hopefully going to then bring us -- we'll be negotiating for them to bring us 3 tons of overall landfill business.
So we're working hard to improve the ratio there and to make sure that we're maximizing the back-end volume in the landfill.
Now this time next quarter we'll have a much better window into what that looks like because we are right now in the middle of kicking off negotiations with many of those vendors.
It's taking a little bit longer because it occurs one vendor at a time.
We're taking great efforts and make sure we maximize the volume in each market and much more broadly taking great effort to make sure we establish the right long-term relationships with these vendors because beyond volume there are a lot of other benefits that we can extract by working effectively with them.
So I think you're going to see that volume coming in some in the third quarter much more in the fourth quarter pretty much fully realized in the 2013.
But it's not just going to be the Oakleaf volumes.
It's going to be also additional volume that we get by entering the partnerships with these vendors.
And there are no further questions.
I will now turn the call over to David Steiner for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
We said when we gave full year guidance that we thought the first quarter was going to be a little bit backwards because of the headwinds and it played out just exactly as we expected it to play out.
So it was a very solid start to the year but the hard work of the year is still ahead of us.
But I'm very confident that we have the right team to execute our initiatives to meet our full year goals.
And with that we'll see you next quarter.
Thank you for participating in today's Waste Management First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at 1 p.m.
Eastern Standard Time today April 26 2012 through 11:59 p.m.
Eastern Standard Time on Thursday May 10 2012.
The conference ID number for the replay is 61793696.
The number to dial for the replay is (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406.
This concludes today's Waste Management conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brandi and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Waste Management Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ed Egl Director Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Brandi.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
With me this morning are David Steiner Chief Executive Officer; Steve Preston Executive Vice President of Finance Recycling and Energy Services; Jim Fish newly appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Trevathan Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
David will start things off with a summary of the financial results for the quarter.
Steve will cover our revenue growth including price and volume trends operating costs and the financial statements.
David and Jim will then discuss the restructuring plan announced today.
We'll conclude with questions and answers.
During their statements any comparisons unless otherwise stated will be with the second quarter of 2011.
Before we get started let me remind you that in addition to our earnings press release and the press release announcing our restructuring plan that were issued this morning we have filed a Form 8-K that includes the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 and is available on our website at www.wm.com.
The Form 8-K the press releases and the schedule to the earnings press release include important information that you should refer to.
During the call you'll hear certain forward-looking statements based on current expectations projections estimates opinions or beliefs about future periods.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of these risks and uncertainties are detailed in today's press releases and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Form 10-K.
Additionally during the call David and Steve will discuss our earnings per diluted share which they may refer to as EPS or earnings per share on an "as adjusted" basis.
Our EPS and net income as well as measures of operating expenses SG&amp;A expenses and expenses as a percent of revenue have been adjusted to exclude items detailed in our earnings press release that management believes do not reflect our fundamental business performance or are not indicative of our results of operations.
These measures in addition to free cash flow are non-GAAP measures.
Please refer to the earnings press release footnote and schedule attached thereto together with item 2.02 of the Form 8-K filed today both of which can be found on the company's website at www.wm.com for a reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP measures and additional information about the use of non-GAAP measures.
David and Steve will also discuss our results in the areas of internal revenue growth from yield and internal revenue growth from volume.
Unless otherwise stated please note that any references to yield or volume results are more specifically referring to internal revenue growth from yield and volume.
This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning approximately 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today until 5:00 p.m.
Eastern Time on August 9.
To hear a replay of the call over the Internet access the Waste Management website at www.wm.com.
To hear a telephonic replay of the call dial (855) 859-2056 and enter reservation code 94048819.
Time sensitive information provided during today's call which is occurring on July 26 2012 may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of Waste Management is prohibited.
Now I turn the call over to Waste Management's CEO David Steiner.
Hey Ted and good morning from Houston.
In the second quarter of 2012 we earned $0.52 per share a 4% increase when compared to the second quarter of 2011 as we grew both our revenue and our net income.
Our core solid waste business continues to perform well as the combined income from operations for our collection landfill and transfer station business grew 3.4% and margins in our core business expanded by 60 basis points.
Our core solid waste business has seen steady improvement and we expect that to accelerate into 2013 as a result of our current restructuring and our field-based initiatives.
We also saw a second consecutive quarter of volume growth in our core solid waste business.
So our core business continues to perform well but the overall company performance was dragged down by $0.07 per share of headwinds primarily related to declining commodity prices.
Internal revenue growth from volumes was positive in the second quarter and has shown good stability over the first 6 months of the year.
We saw positive volume growth in each of our industrial special waste and recycling operations.
Our residential business was still negative but the rate of decline has improved each of the last 6 quarters.
We'd like to see more consistent growth in our MSW and Commercial business however our volumes in those lines are trending pretty much as we expected.
As such we still expect to achieve our full-year volume guidance of flat to slightly positive with the most likely scenario having volume slightly positive for the full year.
Looking at our IRG from yield in the second quarter of 2012 each of our collection landfill and transfer station lines of business saw positive yield.
Both Special Waste and roll-off achieved positive yield and positive volume.
So we're maintaining our pricing discipline but we're certainly not satisfied with yield at 1%.
Just like we did in the past in order to take the mix effects out of our yield calculation we also analyzed core price increases or increases on current customers.
Core pricing is basically price increases plus all fees other than our fuel surcharge less all price rollbacks.
When we look at the core price component of solid waste yield it increased 2.8% which was similar to last year.
Average recycling commodity prices were 20% lower during the second quarter when compared to the second quarter of 2011.
This resulted in approximately a $0.03 decline in our earnings per share for the second quarter of 2012.
Through the first quarter we saw commodity prices rise like we expected.
However as we moved into the second quarter the rise in commodity prices stalled and actually began to decline.
So we saw a negative $0.06 EPS effect from recycling commodity prices for the first half of the year which was slightly worse than we expected.
For the second half of the year we originally expected no negative effect from commodity prices but given current prices and our future outlook that prediction is no longer valid.
We now project that for the second half of the year recycling commodity prices will be slightly lower and will have a negative year-over-year impact on earnings per share of approximately $0.05.
However volumes continue to grow as customers continue to demand more recycling services.
We've invested in recycling assets in the past and will continue to do so in the future.
Turning to our Waste-to-Energy business average electricity pricing declined a little more than 10% in the second quarter when compared to the second quarter of 2011.
We experienced headwinds in the second quarter of 2012 from rollbacks on tip fees in our South Florida waste-to-energy business as well as low electricity pricing.
These drove a $0.03 drag on earnings per share for the second quarter compared to the second quarter of 2011.
We now expect to see a negative $0.02 per share impact from our waste-to-energy operations during the second half of 2012 which is slightly higher than our original estimate of a negative $0.01 per share impact in the back half of 2012.
In summary through the first half of 2012 we were happy to see that our core solid waste business has grown and margins have continued to improve.
This has helped us grow adjusted earnings per share year-over-year despite larger-than-anticipated headwinds from recycling waste-to-energy and fuel commodity prices.
In the third and fourth quarters we anticipate seeing benefits from procurement savings the integration of our acquired Oakleaf operations and reorganization savings which will help to offset the additional $0.03 of commodities headwinds we experienced in the first half of the year.
However we also expect to see the continued decline of recycling commodity prices and a negative impact from our Waste-to-Energy business in the second half of the year.
Consequently the unexpected $0.07 of headwinds in the second half of the year have made us more conservative on our full-year adjusted earnings per diluted share guidance.
We now see our full year being between $2.15 and $2.20 per diluted share.
So we expect our core solid waste business to continue to perform pretty much as we expected at the beginning of the year.
The change in our guidance is not driven by core operations but is driven by our expectation that commodity prices will be lower in the second half of the year.
Of course commodity prices are inherently unpredictable and with recycling commodity dependent on both domestic and foreign markets we've seen a fair amount of volatility just in the first 6 months of the year.
So although we expect to see a $0.07 year-over-year decline in EPS in the back half of the year that number is merely a current prediction of future commodity markets.
As such it could change if markets improve or deteriorate beyond our current expectations.
Consequently if commodity prices have a different effect on earnings than our predicted $0.07 per share our outlook would obviously adjust accordingly either positively or negatively.
Finally as this is Steve's last earnings call I'd like to thank him for his partnership.
Of course he'll be with us for the next few months helping with the Oakleaf integration and working with me on other projects and he's leaving the finance organization in terrific shape for Jim.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve to discuss our second quarter results in more detail.
Thank you David.
I'm going to begin by talking about revenue drivers including yield and volume in the various lines of business.
And then I'll get into a discussion of our costs and our cash flow.
Revenue for the second quarter increased $112 million or 3.3% from the prior-year period.
This is the 10th consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue growth.
While our revenue improvement was largely driven by acquisitions primarily Oakleaf as David mentioned we also saw positive internal revenue growth from both yield and volume.
Some of that growth was offset by a significant decrease in revenue from lower commodity pricing.
Yield in our collection disposal operations grew 0.6% in the second quarter but adjusted for the change in pricing at our waste-to-energy plants in South Florida our yield growth for the second quarter of 2012 was 1.0%.
In the collection business yield grew 1% in the second quarter.
More specifically commercial grew 1.4% industrial grew 1.7% and residential grew 0.2%.
In the landfill line of business all the main waste streams achieved positive yield in the second quarter of 2012.
Overall landfill yield was a positive 1.4% which is the highest yield we've seen since the first quarter of 2011.
MSW yield grew 1.2%.
In addition C&amp;D yield improved 1.7% and special waste yield was a positive 1.9%.
Internal volume growth was 0.6% which is a slight improvement from the work day adjusted volumes that we saw in the first quarter of 2012.
But more importantly this is the first time we've seen 2 consecutive quarters of volume growth since the second and third quarters of 2005.
This growth was driven by landfill volumes which grew 1.3%.
And while MSW waste stream declined 0.7% and C&amp;D volume declined 1.6% other lines driven by Special Waste grew 2.0 -- 2.8% rather and that is what supported the overall volume growth.
Landfill volume growth was particularly -- was partially offset by collection volumes which declined 0.4%.
More specifically collection volumes declined 2.9% in commercial and 0.6% in residential.
In the industrial business volumes grew 1.8%.
In addition recycling volumes improved 1.1% organically in the quarter and 11.5% when you include acquisitions.
Of course commodity prices were down in the quarter but we do remain committed to the recycling line of business as David mentioned.
With improved internal growth from both yield and volume income from operations in the combined collection landfill and transfer station businesses improved more than 3% when compared with the second quarter of 2011 and operating margins improved 60 basis points.
Operating costs increased $110 million in the second quarter to 65% of revenue compared to 63.9% in the second quarter of 2011.
The largest driver was subcontractor costs which increased $98 million primarily related to the addition of Oakleaf which delivers most of its services through third parties.
The remaining $12 million of increase consists of labor costs increasing due to acquisitions as well as new recycling plant startups.
We also saw higher prices in our cost of tires and parts and lubricants but these increases were partially offset by savings from lower cost of goods sold due to lower commodity prices as well as cost savings in the landfill operating cost and risk management areas.
SG&amp;A costs were $372 million in the second quarter which was an improvement of $10 million.
As a percentage of revenue SG&amp;A costs improved 60 basis points.
The main drivers of the improvement in SG&amp;A costs were reduction in consulting fees as well as incentive compensation accruals.
So as we pull apart the various items affecting margins we need to dig a bit further into the various lines of business.
So our core collection and disposal lines expanded margins significantly.
That contributed 60 basis points of improvement to the overall margin of the company.
And SG&amp;A savings added an additional 60 basis points of improvement.
However the recycling and waste-to-energy headwinds that David mentioned reduced margins 120 basis points and our acquisition of Oakleaf further reduced margins 70 basis points.
And then fuel impacted margins negatively by an additional 10 basis points.
So as a result our core business margins improved 60 basis points but our overall income from operations declined 30 basis points when compared to the second quarter of 2011.
Updating our initiative progress during the second quarter of 2012 our procurement program delivered $0.02 of earnings per share which helped offset costs incurred to rollout our routing and logistics programs.
At the end of the second quarter our weighted average cost of debt was 5.1% and our debt-to-capital ratio was 60.2%.
Our floating rate portion of total debt -- of the total bit [ph] debt portfolio was 10% at the end of the quarter.
Our income tax rate as reported in the second quarter of 2012 was 34.3% largely in line with the rate of 34.5% in 2011.
Turning now to cash flow.
Second quarter 2012 net cash provided from operating activities was $669 million.
This is an increase of $191 million from the second quarter of 2011.
The increase is primarily related to improved working capital which includes the impact of terminating certain interest rate swaps.
Some of that increase also relates to the timing of tax payments and interest which should even out over the next 3 quarters.
Our capital expenditures for the second quarter were $351 million resulting in free cash flow for the quarter of $332 million.
Free cash flow improved $126 million when compared to the second quarter of 2011.
And as the year progresses we still expect to generate between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion of free cash flow for the year and we expect to divest certain noncore assets to help offset higher CapEx and higher cash taxes anticipated in 2012 compared to 2011.
We returned $165 million to our shareholders to the second quarter -- to the second quarter dividend and we invested $25 million in acquisitions.
As I close as David mentioned I will be turning over the CFO reins to Jim Fish and continuing to work on the Oakleaf integration as well as selected project.
I have to say I leave this role with a smile on my face not only because my brief time here at Waste Management has been so fulfilling but also because I'm confident that there are many great things in store for this company.
Now I'd like to turn it back over to David and Jim Fish to discuss the changes in our organizational structure.
Thanks Steve.
As you all know we've been investing in a number of initiatives to streamline our organization and to get closer to our customers.
Today we took a big step in our efforts to streamline our operations and we consolidated a reporting layer to move field operations closer to our corporate initiatives.
We're focused on 3 areas of our business: improving our yield; improving the efficiency of our operations; and getting closer to our customers through our segmentation efforts.
The restructuring is designed to improve the implementation of these initiatives by creating a direct line of communications between the field and the corporate staff.
And by the way most of the corporate leaders of these initiatives are people that came out of our field operations so we expect to have more alignment and quicker reaction time as we implement our strategies.
Certainly the actions we're taking will move more responsibility to our Area Vice Presidents and their staff.
Our new structure is designed to drive performance and accountability from the Area Vice Presidents to our 2 new SVPs of field operations Jeff Harris and John Morris.
Consequently there will be a heightened level of accountability for our Area Vice Presidents for all aspects of performance from yield and volume to implementation of our initiatives.
So the reorganization should not only save money in the short term but it should also lead to improved performance over the long term.
We now have our 17 best leaders running our area operations supported by a talented and efficient staff.
I have complete confidence in the people that will lead our operations and our support functions and look forward to working closely with them to achieve our goals.
Our new senior leaders are ideal for the new roles.
Jim Trevathan has been at Waste Management for over 30 years and has served in roles ranging from sales to operations.
Aligning the 2 field SVPs with Jim is a natural extension of his current role which includes responsibility for our field-based initiatives like service delivery optimization and customer-focused growth.
Jeff Harris has been in our company for over 12 years and in the industry for 30 years.
Jeff has run operations from New York to Canada and most recently served as the head of our Midwestern group which has been our top performing group.
Going forward Jeff will manage the areas in the former Midwest group and will add operations on the east and west coast.
John Morris has been at Waste Management for 15 years and in the industry for nearly 20 years.
John has extensive experience in field operations and for the last 5 months served the company as Chief Strategy Officer.
John has long been recognized as one of our top performers and has all the experience and capabilities to take on the role.
John will manage the more southern areas of our company stretching from California to Florida.
Through the restructuring we've created a number of other opportunities at all levels of the organization and I know our people will excel in their new roles.
So we head towards 2013 with renewed energy and commitment to our strategy.
With that I'll let Jim Fish go over the reorganization in more detail.
Thanks David.
As I mentioned 3 weeks ago when we announced my new role I come to the CFO position with a field-based operational focus.
When I discussed the new role with David I told him the areas I'd like to focus on were growing the business reducing its cost structure and efficiently allocating capital to increase our returns.
Today we announced a plan to streamline the organization and reduce SG&amp;A costs.
We have been analyzing the cost structure and staffing requirements needed to support our front-line personnel and our long-term strategies.
We will continue to focus on reducing costs through our procurement efforts and our technological improvements in routing and logistics.
We specifically designed this restructuring with the primary goals of streamlining our delivery of corporate support while not disrupting our front-line operations.
More than 90% of the cost reduction is expected to come from corporates and support functions.
Going forward I will be helping to design and implement the programs to achieve our goal of an additional 200 to 300 basis points of cost reductions.
Not only are we taking action to remove cost but the reorganization is designed to improve alignment between our corporate initiatives and a field implementation of those initiatives.
We now have a direct line of communication between the corporate support teams and the areas that are responsible for executing on the strategies.
A simpler and flatter organization will not only have lower SG&amp;A costs but also should result in sharper focus as we identify and execute upon our opportunities and deliver the value to our shareholders.
Clearly this reorganization is designed to save money in the short term but our goal is to drive improved performance in the longer term as well.
Overall the reorganization is anticipated to eliminate approximately 700 positions.
This includes the elimination of a layer of management consisting of our 4 geographic groups.
In addition we've made significant reductions in our corporate office.
We are also reducing the number of our areas from 22 down to 17.
A year ago we had 25 areas.
The company anticipates a third quarter pretax charge to earnings in the range of $50 million to $60 million primarily from employee related costs.
The charges does not include facility lease or other charges that cannot be estimated today but that we will likely incur as we move forward.
The cost savings from the reorganization will occur over time with a small amount anticipated in 2012 but with an anticipated savings of over $130 million annually in 2013.
We will monitor our results by tracking headcount and associated benefits and costs and we will track other expense categories such as consulting fees to make sure we don't merely replace employee costs with third-party costs.
So we are going to work for the remainder of the year to position the company to get the full benefits of the reorganization in 2013 with no backtracking.
Taking these costs out is the equivalent of a downpayment.
We're still on target for the implementation of routing and logistics and with the increased efficiencies created from the reorganization.
We will be able to move forward more quickly into centralization of additional back-office functions.
Over time this should allow us to achieve an additional 200 to 300 basis point improvement that we are targeting.
And with that operator we can open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Vance Edelson with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I may have missed it but could you provide the dollar amount of the environmental fees in the quarter and can you comment maybe on what the expectation is for environmental fees in the third quarter? I'm just wondering the impact that has on pricing.
Yes we had about just a little bit over $80 million of environmental fee in the second quarter.
I wouldn't expect that number to go down in the third quarter.
Remember last year in August we raised the environmental fee from 7.5% to 10% and so you've got the anniversary-ing of that this year but I wouldn't expect that number -- it's been very consistently around $80 million since mid last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And could you also provide a feel for the pace of residential contracts rolling off? Is there an accelerated pace starting this month and continuing into the fall? Just trying to again gauge the impact there.
From a pricing perspective? Research Division</strong> Sure.
Yes.
So what we've got in the back half of the year for CPI on our contracts is roughly 2%.
And so it's 1.5% 2% Ed as I recall it and so that's what we're counting on for the back half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just one more real quick question.
On the noncore asset liquidations can you tell us anything about what that relates to? Pardon me? Research Division</strong> On the noncore asset liquidations can you tell us what the noncore assets were? Yes absolutely.
As you all know we've had a lot of different investments in energy.
We've made some investments in energy assets to offset fuel costs.
And so those are pretty valuable assets and we'll look to monetize some of them.
Our next question comes from the line of Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the sale of noncore assets if you've kept the free cash flow guidance at $1.1 billion $1.2 billion if you take a look out and exclude potential or what they're contributing today what does free cash flow look like? What the noncore assets are contributing today? Research Division</strong> Well David you're in the process of restructuring again and trying to get the run rate on free cash flow for the business.
And you certainly lowered EPS for the commodity headwinds that are out there but it didn't seem like there was a drop down in free cash flow and I would think with sale of some of these assets I've got to believe they're contributing some cash to the business today.
Yes they're contributing some cash.
But in the back half of the year -- Steve may remember -- as I recall in the back half of the year that would be around $20 million.
So not a huge amount for the back half of the year.
Research Division</strong> But going forward on a pro forma basis for the business I mean is it $100 million or what are we...
Yes so what we've got going on here is we've got these energy assets that as you drill out -- so we're spending capital to drill out these assets too.
So as they continue to produce you continue to drill out.
So you've got 2 things going on.
You've got capital going out you've got some income coming in.
So net-net from a cash flow point of view even given the earnings that you would lose on the current production you would pick up cash because as we sell the assets we'd have less of a capital commitment.
So net-net going into 2013 that should actually be a positive contributor to free cash flow.
And you'll see it coming through that -- a lower CapEx line just to take forward a little bit of what David said.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
With these restructurings some new hires or a replacement now having a COO.
2 questions: First do you anticipate some potential goodwill impairment? I assume some of this headcount reduction 700 has to be coming from Oakleaf operation.
And then secondly could you touch on why the change in strategy or philosophy on getting back in place a COO.
I think some of us have our own views on that but would welcome the opportunity to hear you.
So the 700 includes nothing from Oakleaf.
And the 700 by the way includes nothing from the consolidation of our former National Accounts into Oakleaf.
It's completely and absolutely 100% separate from Oakleaf.
No there won't be and we don't anticipate any type of goodwill write-off from the Oakleaf operations.
When you talk about the COO role we brought Jim in here now -- what Jim? A little over a year ago to basically take all of our field-based initiatives -- look Jim as I think one of you all very appropriately said Jim is an operator's operator.
Jim's been in this industry a long time.
Jim's forgotten more about this industry than I'll ever know.
So we brought him in here about a year ago in order to drive the big corporate initiatives we had going on primarily service delivery optimization and customer-focused growth.
So as you take out these 4 geographic groups the layer of management and you're left with 2 operators those 2 operators need some support staff.
Those folks out in the group weren't doing nothing they were doing a lot of things to help those folks manage their business.
So they're going to need some staff to help them out.
And by the way they're going to be here in Houston.
And so it made perfect sense to have them align themselves with Jim's corporate staff to provide the support they need to manage those lines of business.
And so it made absolutely perfect sense.
If you're really going to try to drive these initiatives in the field why wouldn't you have the person that's responsible for the corporate support functions for those initiatives also have the folks that are responsible for the implementation in the field of those initiatives.
And so it made absolute perfect sense to have them all reporting to Jim and I'm absolutely confident you're going to start to see them drive some real savings into the business.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Fisher with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow-up on -- or a question on the pricing.
On the outlook for the second half in terms of your guidance can you touch on the factors that impact whether it moves up or is constant like the anniversary-ing of the environmental fee and the CPI and whatnot? Yes it's a great point.
I do see it sort of remaining constant in the back half of the year.
We do have the anniversary of the environmental fee coming up.
We've got some benefit coming from the CPI increases.
But as you all know earlier in the year we renewed a lot of contracts at lower rates so that affects it a little bit.
But what we're seeing frankly in pricing are a lot of positive signs.
We're seeing the volume firm we're seeing net service increases pick up.
And so from my perspective it's time for us to get a little bit more aggressive on new business pricing.
And so that doesn't hit yield on the bottom line overnight but moving into 2013 you should see our yield pick up from its current 1%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just on Oakleaf how far along are you in the process of -- on the third-party haulers either using your landfill or potentially bringing some of that volume in-house? Yes we've actually -- we've made a lot of really good progress in the last quarter.
And I think on the last earnings release call we mentioned that that second quarter was going to be an important time for us to advance our negotiations with the vendors.
So we made good progress really at the top of list when you think about how we're sequencing this at the top of the list are the larger regional and sort of multiregional providers.
They've got the most volume and negotiating with them moves the needle most quickly because you can get at them a lot more easily.
And we've gotten through most of those negotiations and feel pretty good about it and that probably gets us about 2/3 of the way to our EBIT run rate.
Now we're beginning to -- we're sort of concluding those discussions and jumping into discussions with the smaller vendors.
That takes more time because the volume is smaller and as a result there are a lot more out there but there's still a tremendous amount of opportunity in that chunk of providers.
So our integration team is pretty optimistic that we're going to hit our run rate.
It's probably going to move somewhat into the first quarter of next year.
We hope to hit it really kind of Jan 1.
I think it's probably going to move to February but we'll have a lot of it going into January 1.
So from that perspective it's been a pretty good quarter for us.
Our next question comes from the line of Hamzah Mazari with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Dave the first question is just on your CPI exposure.
Maybe if you can help us think about how much of your business resets each year.
Is it different this year versus last year in terms of how much resets? You can give a dollar amount or talk about it qualitatively -- however you want.
And then also maybe just update us on your churn rate.
Yes the churn rate first off actually dropped in the quarter to 9.6%.
And Hamzah as you know with the CPI-based revenue it rolls off in January and July.
About 7% of our revenue will be repriced in the back half of the year.
As I said that's about 2% CPI.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then Dave maybe if you could -- you've made a lot of management changes clearly this year.
All of them have been internal.
Maybe if you could just talk about why you didn't do this earlier maybe also touch on is there any disruption to the operations with the management changes? Is it a pretty smooth transition? How should people be thinking about all these management changes? Yes I think it's a great question Hamzah and I'm glad you asked it.
Because when I joined this company I think we had 110 areas.
And when you have 110 areas you have absolutely no choice but to have an intervening layer to manage those 110 areas.
And so you've seen us drop those areas from 110 down to 25 at the beginning of this year and now we've dropped them down to 17.
And so when you look at what we did it's frankly it's the culmination of what we've been doing now for the last 6 years right? It's basically we've been consolidating the structure below the group level so that at some point in time we'd be able to take out that group level and have a direct -- report directly to corporate.
And to the second question look whenever you do something like this it is the first and only question you ask yourself the whole time which is can we get this done without affecting our front-line operations? And I will tell you if there has been one theme to this reorganization it has been let's make sure that we get this done without affecting front-line operations.
So as Jim pointed out 90% of the cost savings are going to come from support functions above the district pool where our operations occur.
And so we made sure that when we did that that we could cover those functions.
I'll just give you a quick example.
Our view of it was take accounting for example.
We had an accounting structure in our corporate -- in our corporate group structure right? We also have accounting in our corporate structure here in Houston and we have a big accounting structure in the areas at that time each of the 22 areas.
And so we said look if we have that much support from an accounting point of view both at the area and at corporate do we really need that group-based accounting support? And so we took a very logical approach to say if there is a lot of support for that function in the area and in corporate we would be able to either eliminate that function at the group level or at least consolidate down from 4 in each of the groups to a fewer number.
So we took a very methodical approach to making sure that everything we did not only didn't disrupt our delivery operations but it didn't disrupt our corporate operations.
Research Division</strong> Just a last question from me does the restructuring plan change any of your SG&amp;A targets going forward? Or how should we think about -- you guys had SG&amp;A target out there I don't remember when but does this change that thinking can you update us on that? Yes -- no it doesn't change the thinking at all.
Our ultimate target is 9% or below for SG&amp;A.
Obviously this takes 100 basis points out of that but we're still too high.
Anyone that looks at this business knows that we're still too high.
And so the second phase is to make sure that we can start consolidating some of those back-office functions that drives SG&amp;A down further.
Now that's going to take a couple of years for us to do that.
In the meantime we're going to be focused on operating costs through our efficiency and routing programs.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Levine with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So with regard firstly to the guidance it looks like you're lowering $0.07 for incremental commodity headwinds in the back half and the midpoint of your EPS guidance is coming down like $0.085.
So is it right to think that with the exception of the commodity deterioration that the remainder of your outlook for the business is effectively intact with what it was at the beginning of the year? Or have there been any other puts and takes from your perspective impacting your guidance change? Yes I think that's absolutely correct Scott.
I think you hit the nail on the head.
And when we look at it the core business again is operating just fine.
And when we look at the full year it's not just about the $0.07 in the back half of the year but we're $0.03 to the negative in the first half of the year from Commodities and recycling and waste-to-energy.
So we've got to make up that $0.03 in the back half of the year while fighting that $0.07 of headwinds.
And so look we thought it was a little bit -- we thought it was appropriate to get a little bit more conservative on the guidance.
And we're going to overcome that $0.03 of headwinds by all the programs that we've been talking about in the back half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it that's helpful.
And then a point of clarification on the free cash flow.
So good quarter but still well below 50% of the way to your target for this year.
What gives you the confidence you can still hit that $1.1 billion $1.2 billion? And then as a follow-up to that is there a certain amount of divestiture proceeds from the divestiture program that's included in the $1.1 billion $1.2 billion target? Yes we've got a couple of divestitures that we're working on but we've been working on them for quite a while so it's not uncertain that those will happen.
The noncore assets are the primary driver of the cash flow in the back half of the year.
Research Division</strong> And how much is that additive to the -- in the 1 point how much is embedded within the $1.1 billion $1.2 billion for assets proceeds? Yes if you look at the schedules to our press release we've said that likely around $250 million would be the minimum number that we'd sell.
Research Division</strong> $250 million got it.
Okay and then maybe lastly in terms of uses of cash so no buyback activity in the quarter.
Are you still committed to your target for this year should we be thinking about lower numbers? Is the M&amp;A pipeline more active? How should we think about cash flow deployment? Yes as we said last quarter we wanted to -- we've frontloaded a lot of our purchasing decisions for capital expenditures this year to buy CNG trucks.
And so we wanted to see how the first half of the year played out before we made any commitments for our free cash flow.
Our capital deployment strategy hasn't changed at all.
If we can find good accretive investments at this point in time I think it's more likely -- well I won't say it's more likely.
At this point in time I will tell you we're not looking for noncore investments.
We're either going to buy solid waste tuck-ins or recycling facilities.
If we can find good targets in that arena we spend that cash if not then we're going to return it to our shareholders.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Hoffman with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> On the free cash flow if we could go back to that table you referred to that said Cash Flow Reconciliation (b).
One of the adjustments as you go from a cash from ops from $2.450 million to $2.300 million.
Can you talk through what's in that $150 million change so we can understand how much of that might be working capital versus net income and get a better feel for where that ends up? Is there a restructuring for instance in that from a cash standpoint? Why don't I jump in.
We've got a number of kind of chunks in this if you want to call it that.
If you remember with the elimination of bonus depreciation or 100% bonus depreciation coming into this year we've got a fairly significant increase in the amount of taxes cash taxes we pay this year relative to last year.
And that's a fairly significant item.
And then the other issue as David mentioned we are trending somewhat higher on CapEx.
Some of that is going to higher fleet purchases as well as some investment to the growth assets which are being offset in large part with the divestitures.
So it's really Michael it's mostly around trying to predict those moving pieces which are fairly chunky and really not having to do with the underlying kind of cash generation of building the business.
And the restructuring Michael is not included in those numbers.
As I recall of the charge I think we're saying about 40% of it will be cash out this year and the rest will be cash out next year.
Sort of $20 million to $25 million so it's not really a significant number.
Research Division</strong> All right.
But if I could drill in a little bit Steve in your prior guidance you assumed your cash from -- provided from operating activities would be $2.450 billion.
You've now lowered that to $2.300 billion.
What is in that $150 million? That's the cash taxes now are higher is that what I'm hearing? So cash taxes are materially different than what you had estimated because of the bonus depreciation? What else is in that that causes that $150 million? So we've -- I'm sorry Michael what bridge are you looking for again? I know for example...
Research Division</strong> On Page 11 well I think it's Page 11.
It's your table called Full Year 2012 Free Cash Flow Reconciliation (b) and you have the Scenario 1 and 2...
I think primarily what you've got going on there is working capital and then don't forget the $0.07 of earnings that comes out of -- that's another $50 million.
That's true that's true.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because what I'm trying to get a feel for is I think structurally there's about $950 million to $1 billion of cash from the core business.
And that's going to get better because you're taking $130 million in cost saves or maybe it's up to $150 million if you count '12's impact in '13.
So that's what I'm trying to get a feel for is that I've got a step back but I got a visible step forward is what I'm trying to understand.
Yes so what you've got going on this year Michael is CapEx up and cash taxes dramatically up right? And so next year when we go to put together our budget for next year we're going to take all of that into account to generate the cash that we need to generate.
This is not a business that is -- what we're saying is this is not a business that systemically produces $950 million to $1 billion of free cash.
The number is higher than that and we're going to manage it to make sure that we keep it there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one of the investments you have been making is in the recycling side.
And admittedly it's added volatility to the model but it's high returns at a certain price.
What price of the commodity does that investing either get pulled back or stop? Yes when we look at our models we assume average 5-year pricing.
And frankly that's about where prices are right now.
It's about at average 5 years.
At average 5 year they're very accretive to return on capital and I don't remember what percentage below it.
But frankly I don't remember the percentage below it has to go in order for it to not be.
But I'm just going to think off the top of my head here Michael thinking back into the models.
I would guess that you have to see an additional 20% plus decrease in pricing before you get there.
And I'm saying that just because our models are generally in the 20% range at average 5-year pricing.
So you'd have to come back down 20% to 30% in order to get it down to below the 15% IRR that we generally look at.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as part of the restructuring are you eliminating the old silo structure as well? Is that one of the other actions that's happening? Yes.
So I mean you're exactly right.
What we're doing here is we're getting everything aligned around 3 people frankly: It's Jim Trevathan and those 2 Senior Vice Presidents of Field Operations.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly if the business environment you have right now existed in 2013 how would you describe your outlook for '13? Yes Michael I got to tell you we see a heck of a lot of encouraging signs in this business.
You see the volumes for us being pretty stable and we expect that to continue.
We're going to take out this $130 million of costs.
That's obviously a real accelerator going in.
As Steve mentioned you've got Oakleaf going sort of from the $50 million run rate to the $80 million run rate in 2013.
Commodity prices again are going to be a big wild card but you would hope that you won't see any further deterioration in that.
The one thing that we've got to get laser focused on in 2013 is yield.
I mean look that's where the dollars drop to the bottom line.
And I will tell you that if the business environment stays like the way it is today and what I mean by that is if we continue to see positive volume we're going to have to get more aggressive on price.
Look you all know the model.
Back in 2007 we were losing volume but we were getting a heck of lot of yield and we were seeing our margins expand handsomely.
We've got to get back to that model.
Now the whole thing that we've been working on for the last 2 years is to get back to that model but get back without giving up volume for price.
So we got to do a better job on yield in 2013.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So most of my questions have been asked already but I just had a couple points of clarification.
Just to be clear on the free cash flow guidance have you changed your CapEx guidance for the year at all? Is it still at $1.4 billion? Well if you look at the table on Page 9 the CapEx guidance is $1.450 billion to $1.6 billion and I think that's up slightly from last quarter.
Last quarter I think we were out there with $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion.
That's part of the bridge that we were kind of working through with Michael.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then talking specifically about just your -- the guidance change on the EPS side.
Obviously you've highlighted the change in commodity prices.
Just to be clear though this doesn't include the $0.07 charges that you took this quarter nor does it include the $0.08 in restructuring for next quarter or the facility closures correct? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> And then on the facility closures at this point you've yet to quantify it but you have quantified the restructuring costs.
So help me understand that a little bit more clearly.
Sure.
When you think about it when we do this restructuring just take the easy example is the group offices.
Are we going to continue to need those group offices? Now we haven't even started talking to a landlord about subleasing that space or anything of the sort like that we're going to start that process right now.
So my guess is that we'll find a lot of consolidation opportunities.
But we just can't estimate if those are going to generate a charge or not.
And so we just want to let you know it's probably coming but we can't estimate the amount.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I guess one last question.
I haven't covered you guys for all that long but for the year or so that I have it feels like we've been taking restructuring charges every quarter.
I guess for each of the last 4 quarters and then going into next quarter.
With the changes that you're making today do you feel like for the foreseeable future we're going to be through the restructuring charges once we get through the third quarter? Or is this something that could kind of prolong into next year? No you should see it through in the third quarter.
So it's a great point.
What you've seen from a restructuring point of view -- remember what Jim mentioned about where we've come from.
We started out the year with 25 areas we went to 22 now we're at 17.
The restructuring charges that you've seen in the prior quarters were essentially related to the prelude to the big restructuring.
The moving of the 25 to 22 areas and so that was the prelude to the big restructuring we're doing today.
Could you see some charges as we said from lease consolidations and things like that? Yes.
But the bulk of it will all occur in the third quarter.
Our final question comes from the line of Cory Greendale with First Analysis.
This is David Warner for Cory.
Most of my questions have been answered but I was wondering if you could speak to the impact on your ability to strategically push through price increases now that the management structure seems to become more centralized and you've eliminated some of these -- the regional or geographic management layer? Yes it's a great point.
And again with pricing just like I talked about the other departments we did the same thing with pricing.
Which is we said okay do we have a lot of pricing support out in the field and do we have a lot of pricing support in corporate? And if we do we can eliminate that intervening layer.
If we don't then we're going to have to do something.
So when we looked at our infrastructure for pricing both out in our areas and in our corporate offices we have a lot of pricing infrastructure.
The reality is in order to drive that price it had to go from corporate to group to the area.
Now it doesn't.
No it's going to go straight from the corporate office to the areas.
And so when I talk about accountability for our area and AVPs that's exactly what we're talking about.
There's no longer going to be accountability to somebody out in the field that then has to have accountability to someone here in corporate.
There's going to be accountability to Jim Fish Jim Trevathan John Morris Jeff Harris and me.
And every quarter we're going to sit in front of them and say "Are you implementing the yield programs that we want you to implement?" rather than having that filter between us and them.
So I'm truly excited that it'll make us a much more nimble and efficient company and I think it'll do that not only pricing but in all of our initiatives.
Okay.
And one more thing do you expect that 100 basis point benefit from the restructuring to be spread evenly over 2013 or front-half loaded or back-half loaded or what there? No that will hit day 1.
We will be through everything we need to be through by January 1.
That $130 million will hit day 1 through January -- through 2013.
Thank you all for joining the call.
It's been an interesting time for Waste Management.
We certainly have a lot of very talented people that are not going to be with our organization and I will tell you I'm going to miss them both from a professional point of view and from a personal point of view.
As someone said during this process if anyone thinks this is easy they've never done it before.
It's not easy but it's something we have to do for the viability of our business.
And we look forward to generating some excitement and some growth going into 2013.
With that Operator we'll give the call back to you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Nicole and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Waste Management Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ed Egl Director Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Nicole.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
With me this morning are David Steiner Chief Executive Officer; Jim Fish Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Trevathan Executive Vice President and Chief Operating officer.
David will start things off with a summary of the financial results of the quarter.
Jim will cover our revenue growth including price and volume trends operating costs and the financial statements.
We will conclude with questions and answers.
During our statements any comparisons unless otherwise stated will be with the third quarter of 2011.
Before we get started let me remind you that in addition to our earnings press release that was issued this morning we have filed a Form 8-K that includes the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 and is available on our website at www.wm.com.
The Form 8-K the press release and the schedules for the press release include important information that you should refer to.
During the call you'll hear certain forward-looking statements based on current expectations projections estimates opinions or beliefs about future periods.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of these risks and uncertainties are detailed in today's press release and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Form 10-K.
Additionally during the call David and Jim will discuss our earnings per diluted share which they may refer to as EPS or earnings per share on an "as adjusted" basis.
Our EPS and net income as well as income from operations margins operating expenses SG&amp;A expenses and expenses as a percent of revenue have been adjusted to exclude items detailed in our earnings press release that management believe do not reflect our fundamental business performance or are not indicative of our results of operations.
These measures in addition to free cash flow are non-GAAP measures.
Please refer to the earnings press release footnote and schedules attached thereto together with the Item 2.02 of the Form 8-K filed today both of which can be found on the company's website at www.wm.com for a reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP measures and additional information about our use of non-GAAP measures.
David and Jim will also discuss our results in the areas of internal revenue growth from yield and internal revenue growth from volume.
Unless stated otherwise please note that any references to yield or volume results are more specifically referring to internal revenue growth from yield or volume.
This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning approximately 1 p.m.
Eastern Time today until 5 p.m.
Eastern Time on November 14th.
To hear a replay of the call over the Internet access the Waste Management website at www.wm.com.
To hear a telephonic replay of the call dial (855) 859-2056 and enter reservation code 30012751.
Time sensitive information provided during today's call which is occurring on October 31 2012 may no longer be accurate at the time of the replay.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of Waste Management is prohibited.
Now I'll turn the turn over to Waste Management's CEO David Steiner.
Thanks Ed.
Good morning from Houston.
In the third quarter of 2012 we earned $0.61 per share.
We're particularly pleased by those results given that the headwinds from commodity prices exceeded our previous expectations.
Our income from operations margin grew 30 basis points compared to the third quarter of 2011.
And our income from operations margin excluding depreciation and amortization grew 90 basis points.
Collection and disposal yield was 0.8% and grew sequentially for the first time in 6 quarters despite the anniversary of our environmental fee in the quarter.
And on a work day adjusted basis our volumes in the core solid waste business were positive for the third consecutive quarter.
So as has been the case through the year our core solid waste business continues to perform well and we're seeing some positive trends as we approach 2013.
Adjusting for 1 less work day in the third quarter volumes were positive 0.5%.
We saw a positive volume growth in each of our industrial MSW C&amp;D special waste and recycling operations.
Year-to-date volumes through the third quarter are positive and as such we still expect to achieve our full year volume guidance of flat to slightly positive volumes.
Looking at our yield in the third quarter of 2012 each of our collection and landfill lines of business saw positive yield.
Our MSW C&amp;D special waste and roll-off segments achieved both positive yield and positive volume.
On the collection side we continue to focus on our core price increases.
Core pricing consists of price increases plus all fees other than our fuel surcharge less all price rollbacks.
When we look at the core price component of solid waste yield it increased 2.6% in the quarter consistent with the last few quarters and indicating our continued commitment to pricing discipline.
We improved our rollbacks in the third quarter when compared to the third quarter of 2011.
This is the fourth consecutive quarter of sequential improvement in rollbacks.
More importantly only once since 2005  has our rollback percentage been lower than it was this quarter and we expect both core pricing and rollbacks to continue to improve in 2013.
In order to see the effects that commodities will have on our full year results we look at both our recycling and waste-to-energy operations.
With respect to recycling when we gave our initial guidance at the beginning of the year we expected commodity prices to have a negative impact of about $0.04 per share for all of 2012.
Through the first 9 months of 2012 we've incurred a negative year-over-year impact of $0.14 per share from recycling commodity prices.
In the fourth quarter we're expecting an additional $0.04 per share of headwinds from recycling commodity prices.
So for the full year recycling commodity prices will create about $0.18 of headwinds versus our expectation of about $0.04 a $0.14 difference.
Turning to our waste-to-energy business average electricity pricing declined a little more than 12% in the third quarter when compared to the third quarter of 2011.
Our waste-to-energy operations caused a $0.02 drag on our earnings per share for the third quarter compared to the third quarter of 2011.
In our original guidance for waste-to-energy we predicted a negative impact of about $0.05 per share for the full year of 2012.
Through the first 9 months we've experienced a headwind of $0.07 year-over-year or $0.02 more than we expected.
In the fourth quarter we expect our waste-to-energy operations to be flat to slightly down year-over-year.
So looking at our combined recycling and waste-to-energy operation the total negative effect is $0.16 of unexpected headwinds for the full year.
If we added that $0.16 to our $2.08 to $2.13 guidance we would be at $2.24 to $2.29 right in line with our guidance at the beginning of the year.
So you can see that without these headwinds we would have been soundly on course to achieve our original full year goals which demonstrates the stability and continued strong performance of our core solid waste business.
The reorganization that we announced at the end of the second quarter is progressing as we expected.
During the third quarter we had approximately $9 million in savings and we expect to see about $20 million in savings for the fourth quarter.
This puts us on track to achieve the full $130 million in annual savings anticipated for 2013.
So through the first 9 months of 2012 our core solid waste business has grown and margins have continued to improve.
With yield and cost savings accelerating into 2013 we should see continued margin expansion.
If we see a recovery in commodity prices that would accelerate earnings growth but we will not count on any commodity price improvements to drive earnings in 2013.
We will focus on improving those things that we can control -- costs and yield -- and we expect to drive both in 2013.
Of course we'll give further guidance and assumptions on our fourth quarter earnings conference call.
In summary we expect our core business to continue to perform solidly as it has since the beginning of the year.
Commodity prices will again be a hurdle in the fourth quarter and as of today we expect to see an approximate headwind of $0.04 to $0.05 per share in the fourth quarter.
Even with this we expect full year earnings to be between $2.08 and $2.13 per share.
If we take into account the $0.07 per share incremental headwind difference in the fourth quarter we would still be on track to achieve the earnings range of between $2.15 and $2.20 per diluted share that was given after the second quarter.
From a cash flow perspective we're on track to generate operating free cash flow of about $850 million despite nearly $200 million of commodity headwinds in 2012 an increase in capital expenditures of about $200 million and about $100 million of additional cash taxes in 2012.
With our focus on yield and cost improvements in 2013 and with cash impacts from commodity prices expected to abate we expect to see operating cash flow increase in 2013 while continuing to make investments toward a natural gas fleet.
We're building a solid plan for 2013 that I'm confident our team can deliver.
I'll now turn the call over to Jim to discuss our third quarter results in more detail.
Thank you David.
I will start by describing the changes in revenue including yield and volume and then I will discuss costs and cash flow.
Revenue for the third quarter declined by $61 million or 1.7% from the prior-year period due to lower recycling commodity prices.
If commodity prices were at third quarter 2011 levels third quarter 2012 revenue would have increased by $115 million or 3.3% from the prior-year period.
The revenue decline from recycling commodity prices was partially offset by acquisitions improved yield and fuel surcharges.
Yield on our collection and disposal operations grew 0.8% in the third quarter.
As David mentioned this is the first quarter of sequential yield improvement out of the last 6 quarters.
Adjusting for the change in pricing at our waste-to-energy plants in South Florida our yield growth for the third quarter of 2012 was 1%.
We were able to achieve this with virtually no incremental benefit from our environmental fee which had a large impact last year.
Compared to the third quarter of 2011 in the third quarter of 2012 we had improved pricing and fewer rollbacks in the collection lines of business.
In the collection business yield grew 1.3% in the third quarter.
More specifically commercial grew 1.5% industrial grew 1.8% and residential grew 0.8%.
All of these were improvements from the second quarter of 2012.
In the landfill line of business all of the waste streams achieved positive yield in the third quarter of 2012.
In total landfill yield was a positive 0.6%.
Work day adjusted internal volume growth was 0.5% consistent with what we've seen in the first half of 2012.
More importantly this is the first time we've seen 3 consecutive quarters of volume growth since 2005.
This growth was driven by recycling volumes at our MRFs which grew 5.1% and landfill volumes which grew 4.3%.
We've seen strength in recycling volumes all year and it's encouraging to see the MSW landfill volumes turn more substantially positive recently.
Specifically in the landfill business special waste volumes grew 4.9% MSW grew 3.4% and C&amp;D volumes improved 0.1%.
Landfill volume growth was partially offset by collection volume declines of 1%.
More specifically commercial volumes declined 2.5% and residential declined 1.4%.
In the industrial business volumes grew 1.2%.
As I mentioned recycling volumes improved 5.1% organically in the quarter and 10.4% when you include acquisitions.
Unfortunately commodity prices were down in the quarter but we remain committed to recycling to extract value from the materials that we collect.
The decline in recycling commodity prices also impacted our operating costs as a percent of revenue.
As a percent of revenue operating costs increased to 64.2% of revenues compared with 63.9% in the third quarter of 2011.
We did see savings in cost of goods sold due to lower recycling commodity rebates.
Without these savings our operating costs would have increased when compared to the third quarter of 2011.
Third quarter subcontractor costs added 120 basis points and repair and maintenance costs added an additional $17 million or 60 basis points of cost.
Maintenance costs have been up all year due to our waste-to-energy operations and increases in cost of tires parts and lubes.
As we add newer trucks to our fleet and improve our maintenance processes we should see maintenance costs improve.
SG&amp;A costs were $332 million in the third quarter an improvement of $48 million.
As a percent of revenue SG&amp;A costs improved 120 basis points on an adjusted basis.
The main drivers of the improvement in SG&amp;A costs were a reduction in incentive compensation accruals and savings from our reorganization.
SG&amp;A savings from our restructuring should increase from $7 million in the third quarter to approximately $17 million in the fourth quarter.
Overall savings from the restructuring was $9 million in the third quarter and should increase to $20 million in the fourth quarter.
The incentive compensation savings will not repeat in the fourth quarter and in the fourth quarter seasonal revenues decline -- seasonal revenue declines typically cause SG&amp;A costs as a percent of revenue to increase.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 we do not expect to be at the third quarter level of 9.6%.
However we do expect to see an improvement when compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
We expect to end the year on track to achieve the $130 million in annualized savings from our restructuring in 2013 most of which comes out of SG&amp;A.
Our income from operations improved 30 basis points when compared to the third quarter of 2011.
This is a good result particularly given that we had to overcome recycling and waste energy headwinds which reduced margins 140 basis points and our Oakleaf operations which further reduced margins 30 basis points.
Our Oakleaf operations have greatly improved from the second quarter when we saw a negative 70-basis-point impact.
At the end of the third quarter our weighted average cost of debt was 5.1% and our debt to total capital ratio was 60.2%.
The floating rate portion of our total debt portfolio was 6% at the end of the quarter.
Our income tax rate as reported for the third quarter of 2012 was 36.1%.
In the third quarter of 2011 it was 32.3%.
The increase is related to nondeductible losses and a return to accrual adjustment.
Our recurring rate is approximately 33.8% which is what we expect to see in the fourth quarter.
Turning to cash flow.
Third quarter 2012 net cash provided by operating activities was $574 million.
Cash from operations was impacted by 2 issues which lowered it by about $150 million.
First the temporary increase in DSO reduced cash flow by approximately $100 million.
Second we had a settlement for the termination of forward-starting swaps related to our recent debt issuance which decreased cash from operations by approximately $59 million.
Without these 2 factors we would have seen an increase of about $75 million of net cash from operations or an increase of more than 11%.
Our capital expenditures for the third quarter were $402 million resulting in free cash flow for the quarter of $180 million.
The previously discussed impact of the cash from operations change and an increase in capital expenditures drove the free cash flow changes.
The increase in capital spending was primarily for fleet capital of which 90% was for CNG vehicles.
We're on track to achieve the cash from operations and capital expenditure components of our free cash flow range which would generate between $800 million and $850 million of cash for the full year despite the combined $300 million in headwinds from commodity pricing and cash taxes and $200 million in additional capital.
As discussed on the second quarter conference call our full year free cash flow range assumed the sale of selected assets.
We are in the process of evaluating opportunities to sell these assets.
If we determine not to sell them at this time or we do not complete the sales before year end it will reduce the proceeds from divestitures component of our free cash flow but it will not affect cash flow from core operations.
We returned $164 million to our shareholders through third quarter dividend and we invested $24 million in acquisitions.
In summary we are pleased on balance with the results of our operations.
And for that I thank all of our employees.
Their dedication and hard work allows us to generate solid earnings and return cash to shareholders despite the headwinds we have confronted.
While we still have work ahead of us we look forward to a more rewarding 2013.
Coupled with the daily efforts of our employees we anticipate our earnings and free cash flow to grow in 2013 and beyond.
And with that Nicole we can open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Hamzah Mazari with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The first question is just on SG&amp;A.
Is it possible for you to break out how much of the decline was due to lower incentive comp accruals and how much was the restructuring? And then going forward Dave maybe you can comment on your conviction level in executing on beyond the $130 million which you talked about.
And maybe talk about some of the risks in not getting there.
Yes.
When you look at the number with respect to the bonus accrual that was about $0.03 for the quarter.
When you look going forward Hamzah the $130 million we have I can guarantee you we have locked down to the penny.
We know exactly where it came from and we know exactly how to keep it from coming back and we're monitoring that every day.
We've also put a couple of folks in charge of trying to increase that $130 million.
We fully expect that we'll see some dollars from that.
We haven't built that into our plans yet but we fully expect that we'll see more than that $130 million.
But the $130 million is locked and loaded for 2013.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on the asset sales maybe if you can give a little more color as to your thought process there.
Are these assets that you want to get rid of and this is just a timing issue? Or are you still debating whether or not to sell those assets? And then maybe talk about your -- talk about maybe buybacks.
You didn't buy back any shares this year.
Is that something that we can expect next year for you to buy back stock? Or is this just a new GAAP allocation policy where you're more focused in on just the dividend? Yes.
When you look at the asset sales if you can imagine the asset sales there's a number of them and they're all in various stages of completion.
So we have a couple where we have letters of intent and we're pushing to get them closed by the end of the year.
We have a couple where we're looking at letters of intent.
And then frankly we have quite a few of the oil and gas properties that we have that with oil in the $80 range we did not get offers that we found attractive enough.
And as you all know we don't have to sell those properties and so we probably will not sell those properties.
And so with having those asset sales at all points across the spectrum from letter of intent to assets that we pulled off the table we just wanted to make sure that folks realize that we may or may not get to that full run rate by the end of the year.
With respect to the capital allocation policy that hasn't changed.
We'd like to add to that mix between dividends and share repurchases.
We'd like to add to that mix making sure that we have stability on our balance sheet from a coverage point of view.
But as far as our philosophy goes that hasn't changed.
Research Division</strong> And just last question on CapEx.
Is it fair to say you're running above normal right now on CapEx? Yes that's -- so when we look at it we're probably running Jim $200 million to $300 million above our running 5-year average.
Obviously we were $200 million higher than we were last year.
So I would say yes we are running a little bit above average.
But the good news is is that the reason we're doing that is to invest in that natural gas fleet which as we've discussed before is not only good for us from a new fleet point of view from a maintenance point of view but clearly with the differential between natural gas and diesel it creates some immediate economic benefit.
Your next question is from the line of Scott Levine with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like generally speaking the pricing news was pretty positive across the business overall and I was hoping you might be able to provide some color with regard to how much of that was really a function of internal initiatives on your part as well as your comments and thoughts on the operating landscape in general and what helps you compensate for the anniversary of the environmental fees in the quarter.
Yes.
From the pricing environment point of view I'd say it's a fairly stable environment.
When you look at our churn rate you don't see the churn rate going up.
When you look at the rollbacks the rollbacks have been very positive.
And that all points to a very stable pricing environment.
When you look at what drove it in the quarter as usual it's core price increases.
It went up obviously because rollbacks went down.
And that's where the focus is on 2013.
When you look at 2013 there's 3 big components that are going to drive our yield: first the core price increase the price increase that we put out on the street; second the rollback percentage; and then third making sure that we have compliance with all of our fees and surcharges.
We've seen that slip a little bit in the last few years.
And so we've gotten together with the group leadership and with every one of our 17 AVPs.
And I can promise you they've got a laser focus on pricing going into 2013.
Research Division</strong> And I think there was an expectation there might be some increase in the contribution from fuel surcharges in the quarter.
It looks like that wasn't the case.
Should we expect that going forward? Or maybe a little color there? Yes with fuel prices coming down obviously there wasn't as much raw dollars but we actually were positive.
And remember at the beginning of the year we were running a little bit behind on the fuel surcharge where we were losing a couple of million dollars.
This quarter I think we made $4 million on the fuel surcharge.
So we said it early in the year that we'll start to see it even out as prices come down and that's exactly what's happened.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
One last one if I could.
The release indicates you expect earnings and cash flow to grow next year.
I was wondering if you could provide a little bit more color in terms of what gives you the confidence to make that statement.
It looks like commodities have moved up here in the month of October.
And then also with respect to the outlook for cash flow maybe a little bit more color with regard to the impact from the issues like commodities like CapEx like cash tax that were incremental headwinds that you didn't foresee in '12 and what your expectations would be for those items for '13.
Yes exactly.
We'll give a lot of detail on that when we do our guidance after the fourth quarter.
Obviously we'll have a lot more visibility into the year as we go through our business plans right now.
But when you look at next year there's 2 things that I would say are going to drive the cash flow.
Obviously the first is our cost programs and pricing and that should drive an incremental -- a minimum of $200 million straight to the bottom line.
And so you'll see cash generation go up nicely.
That's assuming that we get no benefit from commodities.
Obviously this year we had a drag from commodities.
And then if we get any types of benefits from bonus depreciation or anything like that it's gravy on top.
I would not expect us to see a dramatic change in CapEx next year.
We are committed to changing over our fleet to CNG and so we won't pull down that CapEx dramatically next year.
But obviously if environmental conditions change such that the earnings power isn't there because of changes in the economy we certainly have the ability to pull that down a good $200 million to $300 million without affecting our business operations at all.
So we should see some pretty strong cash flow generation increases next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Vance Edelson with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just answer the earlier fuel surcharge question from the angle of what's the willingness on the part of customers to accept these surcharges most recently.
Any change in their behavior versus past fuel cycles? No.
It's -- I think everybody understands the nature of our business from a transportation point of view and the fuel that we use.
And so frankly what we've seen is a slight uptick in our compliance with the fuel surcharge and we've put some processes in place out in the field to make sure that we aren't waiving that fuel surcharge.
When we talked about the pricing environment I would say that we've got a very stable pricing environment.
What we have seen from some competitors is that they've waived fuel and environmental.
And frankly some of our folks started to do the same in order just to keep up with the competition.
What we've told them is we're not going to do that.
We're not going to waive fuel and environmental.
That's just putting too much risk into our business plan going forward.
You can get away with waiving fuel and environmental on Day 1.
You can't get away with it for 1 year 2 years or 3 years or 7 years the time that we'd like to keep these customers.
And so you've got to see increases as you see costs go up from both environmental compliance and the fuel.
So we've put processes in place to make sure that we aren't waiving fuel and environmental.
And obviously those will continue into 2013.
So we see nothing but increased compliance from that point of view.
And we haven't seen a push back from customers really at all.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And could you just elaborate a bit on the labor dispute? What's the nature of the issue there? And is it mainly behind us now? Yes it is.
I mean look as you know anytime you have a labor dispute there are a lot of different issues.
This was primarily economic.
I mean it was a disagreement as to what we thought wage increases should be in this economic environment.
It only lasted less than 1 week so we are able to get that out of the way.
And we put some reserves in for some liquidated damages for some of the communities up there to make sure that we take care of our customers.
But other than that it's certainly behind us and we continue to have very good relationships with our unions throughout the country.
Your next question is from the line of Michael Hoffman with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> A question on free cash flow David your comment about it growing.
So is it fair based on the way you've characterized some of the data we should be north of $1 billion on a comparative basis of that $850 million for this year? We'll obviously -- yes we'll give a lot more guidance when we give our 2013 guidance.
But yes.
I mean if you take the $800 million to $850 million that we're talking about this year and you add that incremental $200 million that I'm talking about from cost and yield it absolutely should be over $1 billion.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Jim the DSO hit this quarter when does that reverse? What quarter or...? So Michael there were 2 components there that -- and first was really a handful of our municipal customers who effectively made third quarter payments in the fourth quarter because their payments came in on the first and second of October.
So that will reverse itself in the fourth quarter.
The second component was really a number of our large customers national account customers and energy services customers who basically did a better job of managing their DPO than we did of managing our DSO.
So I expect that that will be an area of focus for us.
To answer your question though about the number we expect it to come back down by about 2 days.
It was up by about 3 days in the third quarter.
We expect at least 2 days to come back down at the end of the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> At the end of the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And then your comment about the reorg had $9 million -- I just want to make sure I understood this correctly -- $9 million in the G&amp;A favorably this quarter $20 million in the third fourth quarters.
And that doesn't include David your comment about the $0.03 for bonus -- or not bonus depreciation bonus accruals.
That's right.
It was actually  $9 million total $7 million in SG&amp;A for the quarter and $20 million in the fourth quarter and $17 million that will come out of SG&amp;A.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the fourth quarter bonus accrual adjustment should be the same as the third quarter so we should take that out too? No no.
We won't have any significant bonus accrual reversal in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then to be clear the Board's view on dividends is that they are paying a dividend and it's their intention if they can to grow it.
That's clearly their intention still? That's absolutely correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
There's no -- all right.
And then lastly can you help us understand the capital you're investing in the alternative technologies as you sort of the drive the future growth of the company.
When should we start to think about those being breakeven on a free cash basis let alone turning positive? On a free cash basis they are currently breakeven.
But when we look at it we look at it from a sort of a portfolio point of view as to when will these investments pay off.
In other words they are already cash neutral.
The question is when do they -- when are we able to monetize those? You might have seen one of our investments had a public offering out this year.
They ultimately pulled it.
But we would expect to see quite a few of those investments start to go public in the next 2 years.
Your next question is from the line of Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
Research Division</strong> First I just wanted to follow up on the question Michael was asking about free cash flow.
The $200 million drag from commodity prices that's 2012 versus 2011 correct? Correct.
Research Division</strong> So to get back that entire $200 million you would need commodity prices to get back to 2011 levels on average.
Is that the right way to think about it? That's right.
And look when we put out our plan I don't expect us to assume any benefits from commodity prices.
Look we think they're at a trough.
We certainly think there's more upside than downside at this point in time but we're not going to build in a dramatic rebound into 2013.
We'll build in -- we'll build in more flat type prices for 2013 and then hope we'd get some benefit.
Research Division</strong> Okay I understand.
One -- couple questions about the disposal side of the business.
So if you just look at the national data construction activity has been recovering pretty nicely for almost 1 year now.
And I think in the script Jim said that C&amp;D volume was up 0.1%.
Do you think -- is there still a lag effect here where you would expect to see that pickup given what we've seen as somewhat of a recovery in construction? Or do you think this is for whatever reason you're not going to get as robust volume growth as construction activity has been? You know Corey we hear a lot about the construction activity.
And frankly we're not seeing it dramatically in the volumes yet but we're certainly starting to hear from our folks out in the field that they see it coming.
When I look at the quarter frankly the most encouraging thing that I saw in the quarter was that we're starting to see the volumes bounce back in the South and the West.
They were the most dramatically affected by the downturn.
And you're starting to see them turn positive from negative in a lot of the lines of business.
To me now look obviously that's because they went down pretty dramatically in the downturn.
But seeing those volumes start to pick up in the South and the West I think is probably a good sign that we will see some construction pop in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And David I know -- I think I know how you feel about disposal pricing.
But could you just talk a little bit about how much room you think there is for upside in the near term maybe 2013 how much -- where you think that might be able to get to? Yes look I mean you all have heard me say it before that disposal pricing is absolutely pivotal to us to sustain all of our pricing programs.
And so we need to be more aggressive in 2013.
As I've said to many of you it's hard to be aggressive when you're seeing income from operations going down at your landfills and that's what we saw between 2009 and early 2012.
We've now had 3 straight quarters where we've seen improvements at the landfill side of the business.
You saw that our volumes were pretty strong this quarter.
So I would expect that in 2013 that will allow us to be more aggressive at the landfill.
I might add to that Corey just one thing.
When you look at our landfill volumes pretty strong landfill volumes for the quarter landfill price at 0.6% and we also had an anniversary of our environmental fee on the landfill side of the business.
We've talked a lot about it on the collection side of the business.
But we had an anniversary of our environmental fee on the landfill side of the business too which we've overcome.
But as David said really as pricing at the landfill goes so goes pricing on the collection side of the business.
Your next question is from the line of Joe Box with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Jim I think you mentioned earlier that residential collection yields were up about 80 basis points this quarter which is a pretty nice acceleration from last quarter.
Can you maybe just talk to what some of the biggest drivers were behind that improvement? Sure yes.
The biggest drivers of course are going to be twofold.
One is the absolute price increase.
The other is the reduction in rollbacks.
And then of course CPI.
When you think about residential a big chunk of that is CPI-driven.
Our expectation for CPI is about 1.5%.
It's about right.
So we think that residential is still going through a bit of a competitive battle here but we also see some encouraging signs on the residential side that possibly some of these contracts we've lost in the past due to price those folks are not having such a good experience there and we may see them bounce back.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And to that point on rollbacks can you maybe just give us a sense of how much overall rollbacks went down in the quarter and maybe what you're targeting for improvement in 2013? Yes.
Rollbacks -- rollbacks were down about 30% in the quarter which obviously is a nice improvement.
Look if we could keep rollbacks at their current level as I said it's the lowest level we've seen since 2005 with the exception of 1 quarter.
So we're going to look for improvement next year.
I'm not sure that we'll be able to get that 30% improvement but we're going to target a good 20% to 30% improvement for next year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I haven't heard much of a mention or any mention at all about the potential hurricane impact.
I know it's obviously very early but I'm just curious if you have any either business disruption or potential cleanup work that's baked into your current guidance.
Yes.
We'll let Jim Trevathan our COO talk about the storm effects.
Yes Joe.
I guess the first thing I would mention is that we've done extensive work the last couple of days.
We battered down many of our East Coast operations just in preparation of the storm.
Another piece -- a good piece of news our people our team members are all accounted for and safe.
We start there.
We're starting to see those operations start back today and will over the next couple of days.
Right now the assessment's under way as to how much damage has been sustained.
Generally Joe we don't see -- we see a little bit of impact the first couple of days around volume negatively.
And obviously with facilities down any rebound in those volumes will occur over the coming weeks and months.
Too early to really tell but we have huge effort under way given our experience in the South and along the East Coast around hurricane support.
We've got teams ready to go with equipment with personnel technicians ready to go support those areas in their cleanup efforts.
I do think it's a little early for us to tell about any volume change though other than the first couple of days that will be negative.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A question for you on thinking about the leverage to the construction recovery.
How do you see that playing out over the next couple of years? If you look at what C&amp;D volume is today relative to the entire pie of the business versus what it was when construction was a lot better as you think about construction activity normalizing how much incremental volume upside is there in the business for you and how do we think about the potential incremental margins on that volume? Yes the incremental margin on our industrial side of our temporary roll-off business is pretty high probably in the 35% to 45% range.
And when you look at the potential bounce-back the good news is I think what we've seen over the last 18 months is that the bounce-back depends on 2 things right supply and demand.
And what we've seen in the last 18 months I believe is that we've basically seen the pickup take up all of the supply.
So in other words in the downturn you obviously had a lot of the local competitors that were stacking cans in the yard because they had nowhere to put them.
What you've seen in the last 18 months is that all of those local competitors have generally used up their cans.
They've got their cans and their trucks out on the street.
And as you all know it's pretty difficult right now for a small business to get a big loan from a bank.
And so it's hard for them.
And given the state of the economy a lot of them aren't making big investments in new trucks and cans.
And so I think what you've seen in the last 18 months is that we've started to eat up that excess supply that was on the market as demands picked up.
And so now as demand picks up I think what you'll see is that the large national companies that have more available assets will start to get more than their fair share.
On the downturn we certainly lost more than our fair share because we wouldn't drop our price to maintain our volume.
Those local competitors would do that.
And so you should see if construction bounces back to me that would be the most positive thing that could happen to our business because there's the ability to both get volume and price because of the slack in supply that's out there.
So obviously that's something that we all hope for in 2013.
But again we're not going to build that into our plan.
Alex one quick addition to that.
In some ways we have replaced some of that lost construction business in some areas of the country with energy services business.
So when you look at our volumes you see that special waste is up pretty significantly while C&amp;D is basically flat.
And it's the same equipment for the most part that we're using so we're just taking equipment that would have otherwise been dedicated to construction business and redeploying it.
And it shows up when you look at landfill volumes and special waste it shows up when you look at collection volumes with industrial still being fairly strong.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And could you just remind us what the environmental fee was last year in the third quarter that you had to overcome this year in the third quarter? 7.5% was the environmental fee 1 year ago and we bumped it to 10%.
We bumped it to 10% 1 year ago.
Yes we bumped it to 10%.
Your next question is from the line of Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T Capital.
Research Division</strong> David what percent of your total business today would you characterize as urban markets? And I'm just curious with GDP growth getting a little bit better in Q3 versus Q2.
Are you seeing any improvement in the dynamics in urban areas? Yes the urban areas have always been more competitive than the rural areas.
But as you mentioned they also have a lot more room for growth.
And when I talk about seeing the volumes in the South and the West bouncing back obviously that's where a large part of the population is in California and Florida.
And so I think you're absolutely right.
I think you will see -- I think in the downturn you saw probably a relative outperformance in the rural markets.
In an upturn I think you see an outperformance in the urban markets.
As far as the split between urban and rural I'll let Ed research that and get that number for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one more percentage.
Have you ever broken out the percentage of your business that is C&amp;D today versus perhaps the housing peak back in 2005 2006? Yes we've looked and I will tell you we don't have those numbers at our fingertips.
But we've looked at that to see what we think would happen at peak versus trough.
We don't have those numbers at our fingertips.
And you have a follow-up question from the line of Michael Hoffman with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> A question I forgot to ask.
The $130 million in reorg savings what is your expectation about the timing of when that's fully in the model? Of that when you look at the ramp-up from $9 million in the third quarter to $20 million in the fourth quarter you can see it starts to ramp up almost to where it's at that $10 million a month run rate in the fourth quarter.
We will hit the ground -- in 2013 we will hit the ground on Day 1 at that $130 million run rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we can count that as -- if we're modeling it we can say 100% of that is a benefit in '13? That is absolutely locked and loaded.
And thank you all for joining us this morning.
I know that many of you on the phone are in the region that was affected by Hurricane Sandy.
As Jim mentioned we have a lot of facilities and a lot of employees up in that region also.
I just wanted to let you all know that our thoughts and prayers are with you.
And as Jim mentioned we've got a lot of experience dealing with these types of events.
And there's one thing I can guarantee you.
When it comes to waste management for those folks that are in the affected areas you've got the absolute best in the business that are going to help you as you go about cleaning up after the storm.
And with that operator we'll sign off for this quarter.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Standard Time today through 11:59 p.m.
Eastern Standard Time on Wednesday November 14 2012.
The conference ID number for the replay is 30012751.
The number to dial for the replay is 1 (800) 585-8367 or 1 (404) 537-3406 or (855) 859-2056.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Carmen and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Waste Management Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question and answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Ed Egl Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Carmen.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are David Steiner President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Fish Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Trevathan Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
David will start things off with a summary of the financial results for the quarter and overview of our plan for 2013.
Jim will cover our revenue growth including price and volume trends operating costs and the financial statements.
We will include with questions and answers.
During their statements any comparisons unless otherwise stated will be with the fourth quarter of 2011.
Before we get started let me remind you that in addition to our earnings press release that was issued this morning we have filed a Form 8-K that includes the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 and is available on our website at www.wm.com.
The Form 8-K the press release and the schedules to the press release include important information that you should refer to.
During the call you will hear certain forward-looking statements including our outlook for 2013 which are based on current expectations projections estimates opinions or beliefs about future periods.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of those risks and uncertainties are detailed in today’s press release and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Form 10-K.
Additionally during the call David and Jim will discuss our earnings per diluted share which they may refer to as EPS or earnings per share on an “as adjusted” basis.
Our EPS and net income as well as income from operations excluding depreciation and amortization operating expenses SG&amp;A expenses and expenses as a percent of revenue have been adjusted to exclude items detailed in our earnings press release that management believe do not reflect our fundamental business performance or are not indicative of our results of operations.
These measures in addition to free cash flow are non-GAAP measures.
Please refer to the earnings press release footnote and schedule attached thereto together with item 2.02 of the Form 8-K filed today.
Both of which can be found on the company’s website at www.wm.com for reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measure and additional information about our use of non-GAAP measures.
David and Jim will also discuss our results in the areas of internal revenue growth from yield and internal revenue growth from volume.
Unless otherwise stated please note that any reference to yield or volume results are more specifically referring to internal revenue growth from yield or volume.
This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning approximately 1 pm Eastern Time today until 5 pm Eastern Time on March 1.
To hear a replay of the call over the Internet access the Waste Management website at www.wm.com.
To hear a telephonic replay of the call dial 855-859-2056 and enter reservation code 88156298.
Time-sensitive information provided during today’s call which is occurring on February 14 2013 may no longer be accurate at the time of the replay.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Waste Management is prohibited.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Waste Management’s President and CEO David Steiner.
Thanks Ed and good morning from Houston.
Before we talk about the specifics of the quarter we wanted to look back at the full year 2012 and give a short overview of 2013.
When we look at our business performance we can divide it into three areas; traditional solid waste operations our recycling operations and our waste-to-energy business.
Our traditional solid waste business performed about as we expected in 2012 with margins improving adjusted yield at 1% and volume slightly positive.
We expect each of those metrics to further improve in 2013 and we expect to take significant cost out of the business as a result of our restructuring our productivity initiatives and our back-office consolidation.
So I’m very optimistic about our traditional business.
We expect to see about 7% to 10% growth and earnings in our additional business driven by pricing cost controls and volume improvements.
The expected growth and earnings would have been much higher about 15% but for the expected increase and accruals for bonuses and long-term incentives in 2013 which was much lower in 2012.
So our traditional solid waste business is very well positioned to perform in 2013.
On the recycling front commodity prices had a dramatic impact on 2012 earnings.
2012 saw significant declines in commodity prices driving $0.17 decline in earnings.
Despite these results we continue to believe that our future depends on diversion technologies because our customers are increasingly demanding that we provide those services.
Consequently we will continue to invest in diversion assets as evidenced by our recent acquisition of Greenstar which will add about 1.5 million tons of sorted and brokered recycling commodities to our business.
This acquisition is integral to our strategy of extracting more value from the waste stream it aligns with our customer sustainability goals and it differentiates Waste Management from other competitors.
For 2013 we expect that Greenstar will have a negligible effect on earnings because we agreed to pay certain post closing expenses in return for a dollar-for-dollar reduction of the purchase price.
After we complete the integration which should occur by end of 2013 and assuming five-year average commodity prices we would expect to receive from Greenstar about $30 million in annualized income from operations excluding depreciation and amortization.
With Greestar added to business a $10 movement in commodity prices would have about $30 million to $40 million effect on earnings.
So we are very well positioned to commodity price increase.
As we have with our existing recycling business we will also work to negotiate recycling contracts on new volumes that provide protection if commodity prices decline.
For 2013 we built our plans using commodity prices that average about $100 per ton based upon the mix of commodities in our single-stream facilities.
In that case our overall recycling business will be down approximately $0.02 in 2013 compared to 2012.
In January the Blended rated our recycling facilities as approximately $93 per ton.
Some of you may remember the space of our collection pricing programs that we called our business improvement plan or BIP.
BIP basically identified our underwater collection customers and implemented large price increases to bring those customers up to an acceptable level of profitability.
Most of the customers about 80% accepted the price increases which were in the 15% to 25% range and the good news was that those customers that left were unprofitable so it didn’t affect our profitability.
Given where commodity prices have been over the last year and increasing complexity in contamination levels of materials we see its time for us to do something similar with our recycling customers.
As contracts come due we will likely need to implement double digit price increases on some customers to return them to profitability.
As for our waste-to-energy business in 2012 our operations had a negative impact of $0.08 to our earnings per share.
Natural gas and electricity prices remained low.
In addition some of our long term waste disposal and electricity contracts are expiring and we’d expect them to be rebid at lower prices.
The biggest impact to our waste-to-energy business will come from our South Florida plants where long-term disposal contracts are being rebid at rates as much as $15 per ton or 26% lower than current rates.
After the South Florida reset we’ll only have about 10% of our long-term disposal and 5% of our long-term power contracts expiring in the next two years.
Accordingly overall we expect our waste-to-energy business to have a negative $0.2 impact on 2013 earnings.
There should not be significant variability in the earnings related to commodity prices as we have about 68% of the electricity pricing for the portfolio locked in for 2013.
Returning to our solid waste operations we continue to see positive signs through January.
Yield for collection and disposal was the highest all year in the fourth quarter of 2012.
And we continue to see improved MSW volumes which should help landfill pricing.
Before we expect both price and volume metric to improve in 2013 and our January results reflected that.
Of course one month does not make a trend but we’ve set the plans and incentives in place to drive yield above 1% and moving toward 1.5% in 2013.
We expect the full-year 2013 volumes to be 0.5% to 1% positive compared with 2012.
Turning to free cash flow; in 2012 we generated about $829 million of free cash flow.
We saw a significant drag on free cash flow from our recycling operations cash taxes and working capital.
In 2013 we expect to grow free cash flow by 33% to 45% to $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion without the benefit of any divestitures.
However we accomplish our $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion goal for free cash flow in 2013; but first we forecast cash from operations to increase about a $100 million.
We should also get about a $120 million benefit from working capital primarily as a result of reduced bonuses for 2012 but would normally be paid in 2013.
And finally we will manage our capital expenditures in line with our free cash flow goal.
We expect to spend about $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion in capital expenditures in 2013 which should allow us to continue to move to a natural gas fleet and invest in our business while achieving our $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion free cash flow goal.
Though we will not spend our full 2013 capital budget until we know we can reach our goal we generally spend about $1 billion in capital expenditures to meet our landfill fleet container need.
With the increase in our purchase of natural gas vehicles we will certainly spend that level of capital in 2013.
Additional capital is spent on growth projects such as landfill gas to energy projects recycling plants transfer stations and new contracts.
We fully expect to spend capital on these types of project in 2013 but we will better monitor the pace of spending to remain on track to meet out free cash flow expectations.
In other words we will aggressively manage our capital spending to achieve both our ROIC and our cash flow goals.
If the economy is not as strong as we expect where commodity prices slide in 2013 like it did in 2012 we will manage our capital expenditures accordingly to meet our free cash flow goals.
We expect to achieve our cash flow goal without any benefit from divestitures.
Any divestiture would obviously create additional free cash flow.
And we do expect to have some divestitures in 2013 and 2014 but we did not build our targets assuming that will happen.
If they do happen that would be great and would give us more of an opportunity to pay down debt return more cash to our shareholders or invest in our business.
As an example of the types of assets divestitures that might add to free cash flow in the past few years we spent cash on growth projects another areas outside of our traditional solid waste business.
We believe these investments have positioned us well to meet the changing needs of our customers.
In the next two years we expect to reduce the number of investments and harvest or monetize some of our investments through sale or public offerings.
I expect the cash proceeds we realize from those investments should exceed any amounts that we invest.
In addition we’ve also invested a number of hydrocarbon assets that we estimate have a value in excess of $200 million.
As you know we look to monetize those investments in 2012 but the markets were not receptive.
We continue to look for opportunities to monetize these assets but we will not sell at the best prices.
So again I would expect these assets to be net cash positive over the next few years.
Turning now to our earnings guidance; you can see that we’re forecasting modest EPS growth in 2013 between 3% and 6% but very strong free cash flow growth of between 33% and 45%.
I previously discussed how we’ll grow cash flow in such a significant pace.
Projected earnings growth has been impacted by about $120 million of compensation headwinds from accruals that we expect in 2013 assuming target payout of our annual long-term incentive plans compared to a significantly low incentive compensation expense in 2012.
We do not expect to have those headwinds in 2014.
So we expect our 2014 earnings growth to get back to the 8% to 12% growth that is our goal in a more normalized economic and commodity environment.
And of course if commodity prices rebound we’re in a great position to benefit from such a rebound.
So in summary when we look at 2013 and beyond we expect to get back the strong and steady free cash flow at about $1.2 billion per year and growing over time.
We’re confident that we can move towards that goal in 2013 while still growing our company and without any help and in fact assuming some headwinds from our recycling and our waste-to-energy businesses.
When commodity prices rebound and when the price resets are done at our waste-to-energy operations those areas should contribute to cash flow growth along with our continued focus on pricing and cost controls.
Additionally we believe that we can manage capital expenditures over the next few years to achieve our free cash flow targets while continuing to invest in our core business including our natural gas fleet and diversion technology.
And finally as we monetize some of our past investments we’ll have further opportunities to produce free cash that we can use to pay down debt return to our shareholders or invest in our business.
So that lays out our 2013 plan.
We’re going to return to those things that drove profitability from 2005 to 2007 pricing and cost controls while continuing to invest in our future.
We’re confident that we can achieve our goals in a low growth economy with current commodity prices.
Overtime we expect the commodity prices and recovering economy should return us to growing free cash flow and the 8% to 12% annual earnings growth.
I’ll now turn the call over to Jim to discuss our fourth quarter results and our 2013 outlook in more detail.
Jr.</strong> Thank you David.
I’m going to review the results of the fourth quarter and expectations for 2013.
I’ll start with a review of the fourth quarter yield and volume; I will then go into the key drivers of expense and cash flow.
Revenue for the fourth quarter increased by $28 million or 0.8% from the prior year period; our revenue equivalent was driven by year-over-year increases in both yield and acquisitions and we also continue to see improving volume trends in many areas of the business.
The growth was muted by a decline in recycle commodity prices.
Yield on our collection and disposal operations was up 0.9% in the fourth quarter and 0.8% in the full year.
Adjusted for the change in pricing at our waste-to-energy plant in South Florida our yield growth for the fourth quarter of 2012 was 1.1% and was 1% for the full year.
This is the second consecutive quarter of sequential yield growth and demonstrates our commitment to yield management.
Pricing efforts that we implemented during 2012 accelerated in the second half of the year and we’ve continued to see positive results in January.
The combined internal revenue growth from yield and our collection business was 1.3% in the fourth quarter with 0.9% growth in commercial 2.2% growth in industrial and 1.5% growth in residential.
Our industrial and residential had the highest yield of the year in the fourth quarter.
In the landfill line of business we achieved yield of 1% up from the 0.6% that we saw in the third quarter.
In the fourth quarter both MSW and C&amp;D had the highest rate per unit we’ve seen all year.
We are extremely committed to yield improvement in 2013.
As David mentioned we expect yield in the range of 1% to 1.5%.
On the volume side of the business internal revenue growth from volume improved by 0.4% in the quarter.
This is the first year since 2005 that all four quarters had positive volume on a workday adjusted basis.
The growth was primarily driven by an increase in recycling volumes at our Maersk landfill tons and the industrial line of business.
Specifically in the landfill business C&amp;D volumes grew by 20.7% almost all from Hurricane Sandy.
MSW grew by 3.2% and special waste volumes improved 0.4%.
In the second half of the year we’ve seen a nice improvement in MSW volumes the largest drivers increased volume from Oakleaf and vendor haulers.
Recycling and landfill volume growth was partially offset by collection volume declines of 1.6%.
More specifically commercial volumes declined 2.7% and residential declined 2.2% and the industrial business volumes grew by 1.3%.
In 2013 we anticipate that volumes should improve slightly from 2012 and range from 0.5% to 1% for the full year.
I will now discuss operating costs.
Operating costs increased by $71 million in the fourth quarter to 64.3% of revenue compared to 62.9% in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The primary drivers of the increase were cost associated with operating recently acquired businesses maintenance and labor.
When compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 maintenance cost increased 6.6% and labor cost increased 2.3%.
SG&amp;A costs were $355 million in the fourth quarter an improvement of $26 million.
As a percentage of revenue SG&amp;A cost improved 90 basis points to 10.3% the main drivers the improvement in SG&amp;A costs or a reduction in incentive compensation accruals and savings from our reorganization.
We fully expect 2013 adjusted SG&amp;A costs to remain flat to improve 10 basis points as a percentage of revenue.
We expect significant costs reductions from our reorganization in 2013.
We also have plans in place to reduce SG&amp;A costs further.
2013 we are looking at non-labor SG&amp;A costs and in 2014 back office consolidation to continue the down drive SG&amp;A costs to a goal of 10%.
At year end our weighted average cost of debt was 5.2%; our debt-to-total capital ratio for the quarter was 59.8% consistent with our target ratio of about 60%.
Floating rate portion of our debt portfolio was 10% at the end of the quarter.
Our income tax rate as reported in the fourth quarter of 2012 was 32.4% and 34% for the full year for 2013 we expect our tax rate to be approximately 35%.
Turning to cash flow fourth quarter 2012 income from operations excluding depreciation and amortization was $873 million and net cash provided by operating activities was $577 million.
Our capital expenditures for the fourth quarter were $378 million and our free cash flow for the quarter was $215 million.
For the full year 2012 free cash flow was $829 million after capital expenditures of approximately $1.5 billion.
Our free cash flow would have been up had we not had approximately $200 million in headwinds from commodity and cash taxes and $200 million in increased capital spending primarily related to C&amp;D vehicles.
We returned $165 million to our shareholders through our fourth quarter dividend and we invested $72 million in acquisitions.
For the full year 2012 we returned $658 million to our shareholders in dividends and we invested $250 million on acquisitions.
Our Board has indicated it will increase dividends in 2013 by 2.8% to $1.46 per share on an annual basis which would result in dividend yield of approximately 4%.
This is the tenth consecutive year of increasing the dividend.
For 2013 the anticipated annual dividends equate to $680 million to be returned to our shareholders.
We also have an authorization to repurchase up to $500 million of our shares.
During 2013 we expect capital expenditures of approximately $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion and free cash flow in 2013 is expected to grow between 33% and 45% to between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion.
In 2013 we are focused on improving yield reducing costs and efficiently allocating capital.
For yield the fourth quarter results are accelerating in January.
They are stepping in the right direction and we have a long way to go to achieve our goals.
On the cost reduction fronts we are on track to achieve our full annual savings from the restructuring but we are not stopping there.
We have plans in place to continue to reduce our cost structure in both operating and SG&amp;A costs and continued rollout of our routing and logistic solution will help us achieve the cost reduction targets.
To reinforce this our annual incentive compensation plans and corporate cost saving scopes for employees and field operations 50% of their plan is based on improving operating costs as a percent of revenue.
For corporate employees 50% of their annual bonus is based on achieving SG&amp;A targets.
As we look at capital and the declines in landfill tons we’ve seen over the last several years we need to spend capital on assets that are performing the best and fit within our long-term strategy to extract value from the materials that we manage.
If a project a landfill or a collection asset is not meeting minimum returns we will make the tough decision to rationalize the use of that asset and reduce capital or shift it to a more economical use.
Also with respect to allocation of our cash in the past few years we’ve made investments in new technologies and payouts over a longer period of time.
In the next few years we’ll focus more on building out our existing suite of conversion technologies such as our Philadelphia spec fuel plant and investing in areas that offer quicker returns like traditional solid waste dumping acquisitions.
So when you put it all together we expect that 2013 will be a year of modest earnings growth but with free cash flow growing between 33% and 45% and we estimate our 2013 fully diluted earnings per share to be between $2.15 and $2.20 per share.
I want to close by thanking our employees who worked tirelessly throughout a tough 2012 to position our company for an improved 2013 and beyond.
With that Carmen let’s open the line for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from the line of Hamzah Mazari with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Hey David my first question is if you could talk about your interest for the work that you’ve done may be to explore a more tax efficient structure whether it be on the MLP or REIT side I realize that there are precedence on the landfill MLP side but the REIT side may be tougher given the various businesses you are in but the landscape that has changed in the last 12 months.
So maybe if you could talk about any work you’ve done there which external advisors you’ve hired when you did the work and just maybe talk about your long-term interest in moving to a more tax efficient structure particularly as you become a more focused company in terms of divesting non-core assets.
Yeah Hamzah I think obviously we are always interested in methods to create shareholder value.
Since the first day I came here I’ve been interested in the REIT structure but as you know the rules and regulations weren’t particularly conducive to it.
Certainly in the last couple of years we’ve seen the developments that are more positive with respect to looking at a REIT structure but there is still a lot of uncertainty out there.
And so we’ll continue to monitor those developments and we’ll see how it plays out.
I would not expect that we would go out and try to set a President by getting a private letter rule or anything sort like that.
We’d like to see a little bit more positive development before we incur that kind of expense.
But in the meantime there is always a lot of both operational and as you know technical issues that you have to resolve and we are constantly looking at those through our tax department through our outside advisors.
That’s a very helpful.
And then maybe if you could talk about how investors should think about the restructuring the plan that you guys have in place.
It seems like nothing flows to the bottom line this year because you have higher bonus accruals.
If you look long-term should investors expect this restructuring plan to be real? Are we going to see Waste Management’s margins 300 400 bps higher by the end of 2015? Or shall we continue to expect offsets on the costs side longer-term? Any color you can give there.
Jr.</strong> Yeah look so in 2013 the good news in 2013 is that the offset of the restructuring is purely an accounting accrual it’s not cash right.
So we will drop that $110 million from the reorganization.
We will drop the cash to the bottom line in 2013.
There is absolutely no doubt about that.
But when you look ahead to 2014 to get that 300 basis points of margin improvement we have to do a few things.
First in 2013 we are looking at additional non-labor SG&amp;A savings and we will get those during the course of the year.
And then in 2014 we start our back office consolidations and that should get us another 100 basis points of cost improvement.
The other areas where we are going to get the cost improvement or get the 300 basis points of margin expansion is about 100 basis points of operating costs which are riding logistics efforts.
And then we’ve got to get our yield backup – pushing backup towards 2% while continuing to grow volumes right.
So the other place you get that margin expansion is through raising yield and growing revenue.
So I’m confident we can get that over the next two to three years.
This year we just happen to have that bonus accrual that will offset it from earnings point of view but won’t offset it from a cash point of view.
So I will just add to that Hamzah that we are taking a very strong stance on not only non-labor SG&amp;A but further labor-related SG&amp;A costs going into 2013.
Okay.
And then just last question from me have you guys thought about bringing the pricing back that you had a number of years ago and you took that out.
Is that something that you want to bring in an up market or down market? Maybe help us understand that dynamic.
Absolutely and as you know Hamzah my commitment that pricing is doesn’t matter but it’s up or down market.
We’re going to put the plans in place to drive yield.
But you’re absolutely right.
I do think that we may have lost a little bit of our focus on yield and we took the yield gate off that certainly when you put incentive plans in place it drives behavior.
So what we’re doing in 2013 is we aren’t putting a price gate in place.
What we’re putting in place is an incentive plan right.
And so what we’ve got is a plan that allows our field leaders to earn about 50% of their annual compensation dependent upon them achieving yield of 1.5% for each of the next two years.
And so that’s a significant amount of compensation and risk for them.
And I fully expect that we’ll see the appropriate behavior for them to realize those benefits.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Certainly.
Your next question is from the line of Bill Fisher with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Bill.
Inc.</strong> Hey just some questions maybe on volume side one on just the special waste outlook can you just give us some color on what you are looking at for drilling or other waste streams in 2013 if you can grow that? So for drilling Bill I would say that we are pleased with the progress we’re making in that sector.
It tends to move around you see some of the shale plays move rigs between Marcellus to Utica over to Bakken.
But we’ve made progress on that front and then I would say that special waste right now looks pretty decent for us going forward.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then on the collection side you are getting some growth on the industrial and even on the landfill side which is great.
On the commercial collection you seem to stuck in the negative buying range there.
What would really takes that to turn is it just more the simply the economy or pricing strategies or what’s on that end? Yeah as you know Bill that’s been stubbornly low over the last few years.
We think that it’s more economic related than it is pricing related.
But certainly in 2013 we are going to be more aggressive than we’ve ever been from the pricing point of view.
But we’ve also seen our rollbacks come down to the lowest level they are in the year and we thought a modest increase in the churn rate of 20 basis point increase in the churn rate.
So that’s what leads us to believe that it’s not our pricing program that’s driving it it’s more economic related.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask David what’s the long-term strategic vision for the waste-to-energy business? Yeah the waste-to-energy business for us obviously has introduced some volatility into the earnings because of natural gas prices and the reset.
What happened here was a lot of these plants were built 20 years ago and when they were built with financing; the 20-year bond had contracts that went with them both on the disposal side and on the electricity side.
And so as those contracts roll off they become merchant both from a disposal capacity and in electricity point of view.
They couldn’t have come off obviously they couldn’t have rolled off in a worst time from a disposal point of view and that’s what we are seeing in South Florida.
If they had rolled off in 2007 we would have been in a heck of a lot better shape but we can’t control the timing.
But when you look at it long-term it’s been a great business for us.
They are very valuable disposal assets and you’ve got some significant growth opportunities over in Europe.
Right now I would say we are absolutely the leading company in the UK which is a high growth market; we are the leading company in design and developing new projects there.
So we think that once we get through these reset like I said in the next two years only 10% from a disposal point of view and 5% from an electricity point of view we will roll off in the next two years.
So we should start to see some stability in the core business and we should start seeing that profitability uptick.
Okay great.
And then can you just comment may be a little bit on the construction and demolition business and what your outlook is there for 2013? Yeah I think the good news is we’ve seen some good stability and actually some decent growth in our roll off business.
Now a lot of that obviously comes from the oil shale plays.
But from a construction point of view we’ve seen good volume growth.
We expect that to continue into 2013 but we don’t expect it to bounce dramatically back to where it was sort of in the 2005 and 2007 range.
So we are expecting modest growth in 2013 and if something better happens we will be pretty surprise.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I want to try and drill down upon intended on this yield for 2013 1% and 1.5% and specifically the lack of pull through maybe that’s coming through with the margin line and specifically EBITDA margins.
So we heard earlier last week about pricing wasn’t necessarily improving dramatically but I hear from your color and cadence and by the tone that you expect pricing to increase.
So specifically if I could where – what markets not necessarily geography but what functional service area do you think price improvement is expected to be the greatest? Look we started in September of last year putting together very specific market area by market area plan.
I will tell you that there is no particular area of focus right in other words we’re looking at pricing across the board.
Now when you look at it just from a pure dollar point of view the biggest dollars obviously come out of our commercial line of business.
And look with our cost going up we need to get the kind of price increases that will cover our costs and help us to expand those margins.
So just from a pure dollar point of view you expect to see it mostly in the commercial line of business.
But it’s why we talked a little bit about recycling commodity prices my personal opinion is that over the last couple of years we have certainly focused on commercial and roll off pricing.
We haven’t been as focused on landfill and recycling prices.
In a market like we had in 2012 where we lost $120 million year-over-year from commodity prices we need to be more aggressive in our pricing structure in order to return to profitability.
On the landfill side now that we’ve seen some pretty good MSW growth over the last 12 months now it’s the time for us to get a little bit more aggressive on the landfill side.
And as we all know the landfill side is going to help support the collection side.
So if I look at 2013 I wouldn’t say now that there is a – there is one geographic area that we are focused on or one particular line of business that we are focused on but I would tell you that we are going to put more focus than we have in the past on our landfills and recycling.
David what I’m specifically struggling with and I’m not sure I’m alone in this but even with some of this price increase and the cost focus that you’ve been sharing with us we don’t see a point through down to the EBITDA line.
And I don’t know if that’s really more just headwinds in the end markets for price or if it’s competitors choking volume away or what’s the real root of the cause and I was may be just hoping to see if you could shed some light on that? You know look when we did the for example when we did the Oakleaf deal obviously that was pretty margin dilutive because it’s a brokerage business model and it’s meant to be margin dilutive because you’re earning low margins but with no capital involved right.
And so I don’t think it would be unusual to see those EBITDA margins go down.
Now we’ve anniversaried the Oakleaf acquisition now is when you actually should start seeing those EBITDA margins turn the other way in 2012.
And quite honestly we talk about our price in yield gates and our compensation plan in 2012 margin is 25% of the annual bonus for all of our leaders in the company and in order to earn that bonus margins have to go up next year.
So we sort of expected to take have diluted margins both from Oakleaf and from recycling commodity prices when you can understate the $120 million $130 million that came down in commodity prices in 2012.
We don’t expect those same types of headwinds in 2013 so that’s when you can see the margins turn back and we’ve got the compensation plan that required us for that to happen for us to get paid.
Jr.</strong> So I have one quick comment Al but this is not so much that pricing is not fallen to the bottom line but we’ve got some things that we are focused on I mentioned operating expense was up $71 million for the quarter that we mentioned back in the third quarter we’ve got to reign in maintenance costs so maintenance costs was – in the fourth quarter was again up year-over-year pretty significantly.
So we feel like it’s not that the yield isn’t falling to the bottom line but we’ve got some cost pressures that we are very much focused on and that’s why I wanted to mention the fact that we’ve got maintenance cost that there is somewhat out of line and our estimation we’ve bought lot of trucks in 2012 that just start to have an impact but it’s also a process issue there so we got to manage that seem to get it and some others that have not learned their secrets yet.
So we will look to pass that on to the rest of the company.
Okay I guess you are still long way either from 2% yield which I think is a little bit longer maybe it’s a near-term target maybe it’s 14%/15%.
But I just don’t hear from you and others that the end market is necessarily accepting a facilitating price at the upper end of that 1.5 I hope I’m wrong but… No I think actually the markets – I think at this point in time the market is going to favor [of it].
We did come out of the deepest recession that we’ve been in a lot industries I think bounced back from that recession pretty quickly.
As you all know volumes in our industry have not bounced back as quickly as they have in some other industries.
So I think people were a little bit I can’t speak for anyone else I’ll speak just for the Waste Management folks the Waste Management folks were a little bit tepid in trying to put their toe into that pricing water.
That’s what I talked about earlier.
When you had people that were a little bit tepid on putting their toe in the water and we didn’t have the incentive in place to drive that behavior I do think that we lost a little bit of our focus on pricing.
It won’t happen again.
2013 we’ve got to drive that and look how we got to take sort of one step at a time.
So we’re going to get that thing up above 1.5% and then we’ll start talking about margin up about 2%.
But I think you’re absolutely right we’d expect that to happen over the next couple of years.
What we’ve got going on pretty dramatically in the last couple of years are the anniversaries of our fees particularly our environmental fee.
That’s reached 10% at this point in time.
The question is how do we get those core price increases to make up for the anniversary of these and surcharges.
We’ve got the plans in place to get that done and as we start to see those anniversaries roll off now you’re starting to see all core price dropping to the bottom line and that’s part of what will help us drive at above 1.5%.
If I may just a clarification on the non-core asset sales what are we calling non-core now if hydrocarbon business it sounds like that’s going to be kept in the shared if you will and you’re going to make some investments there but what’s non-core what should we be viewing as non-core? Yeah when I’m talking about non-core I’m talking about anything that is not solid waste or recycling related.
Okay but that...
So there is two categories there is the hydrocarbon properties which we talk about.
And then there is the investments that we’ve made in a number of companies that use alternate processing technologies.
And some of those companies as we’ve said all along we design what I would call one of the better green portfolios in the United States some of those companies are going to win some of them are going to lose I mean that’s what the nature of the beast is.
But we’ve made those investments two and three years ago a couple of those in the next two years I would expect to come to fruition.
You don’t invest in companies that go public the next day you invest in companies and they go public over a longer period of time.
And so I would expect over the next few years we’ll see a couple of those investments go public which give us the opportunity to monetize it if we decide to.
We have a couple with that aren’t as strategic to us which we thought maybe three years ago and we may look to settle some of those investments.
And then we are not going to make a level of investments that we’ve made over the last few years.
Look we’ve got our – what I call our green portfolio in pretty good shape.
We’ve been investing over the last few years at a fairly high rate we’re not going to invest at that high rates going forward.
And so what we are trying to say is those should be net cash positive.
We’ll still make some small investments but we’re not going to make the size of investment that we made over the last three years and we’re going to start to monetize some of those.
So over the next two to three years you should see that portfolio turn from being a net cash drag to be net cash positive and its the exact same thing with the hydrocarbon properties.
We’ve been investing over the last three years.
You should see us monetizing over the next three.
Thank you David for your time.
Sure no problem.
Your next question is from the line of Michael Hoffman with Wunderlich Securities.
Good morning and thank you for taking my questions.
Hi Michael.
Hey David how are you doing? Great.
Jim David could you walk through on the free cash side I think I followed this correctly.
If I start with $829 million it seems like it’s add into the bottom of $1.1 billion.
$110 million from restructuring somewhere between $115 million to $200 million from less capital spending other cost savings of $130 million to $230 million that achieved in non-labor G&amp;A and the cost it sold.
And then I’ve got headwinds of bonus accruals which I didn’t do in 2012 and I’m going to do in 2013 so I got a….? Jr.</strong> That’s just an accrual Michael; it’s not cash.
It’s just an accrual.
So that’s the difference.
So you don’t expect to pay any cash out in 2013? Jr.</strong> We pay it in 2014.
So if we are at bonus in 2013 we don’t pay at 2014.
Okay.
So the reflection here in this other cost savings the G&amp;A and the cost of goods savings because I’ve got a $30 million headwind from heating and electricity if that match correctly in $0.04? Right right.
So that sort of a progress of that I’ve got that sort of match approximately… Jr.</strong> Yeah you got – you sort of start with $825 million.
We had $100 million from operations.
If you add a $120 million from working capital and that gets you up to sort of $1 billion plus and then the filler if you will is the CapEx.
Like as you said somewhere between $50 million to $100 million gets you to the bottom end of that range.
Okay all right.
And then how do you think about the incentive comp plan as it relates to the returns on capital as well.
And you had nearly 5 years of a negative slope to your return line I assuming that’s an another area that most interesting thing you will change that trend.
So how do I think about – you just talk to us about in your returns on capital in 2013? Jr.</strong> So I would – let me take a shot it down Michael.
One of the things that I talked about my script was the fact that we’re going to go through a process of rationalizing assets.
And when you look at some of these assets that are underperforming that have caused that degradation in return on capital.
Those are the ones that specifically we will be looking at.
I think it’s kind of simple microeconomics that we’ve got in terms of disposal probably too much capacity chasing to few tons as we mentioned we’ve seen a big drop off over the last few years.
So I think and maybe that I was planning I think that ultimately helps the prices climate down the road.
All right.
Well you’ve given me a perfect segway to one of my question.
How do you think about the prospects of being able to [mass dwell] your space? And all the complexities around closure and post-closure and looking at accounts what can you do is that in the task will you do that and therefore get capacity on the market? I think probably one thing more complicated than REIT and that is landfill permits.
We’re in the early stages there we will give you some more information going forward but certainly it’s not easy.
Okay.
But it’s – that’s something that’s being explored that’s what I’m hearing? True.
Okay.
And then thanks for giving the opening on the REIT too.
As I write my note tomorrow if I understood your statement Waste Management is not pursuing a private letter ruling because it does not see as a viable opportunity at this time but it remains open to alternative corporate structures if the rules would change in the future.
Yeah I think that’s fair.
I probably characterize it Michael.
I think there is more of a chance if it’s happening today than there was two years ago but there is still a lot of uncertainty out there.
And at this point in time I would say I don’t see us sort of taking the lead to try to do something that has that much of uncertainty around it.
Why do I say that? You got a lot of operating issues you’ve got a lot of technical issues and in order to get pass both of those you’ve got to spend that heck of a lot of money.
And so I would like to see I would like to see a little bit more clarity in that arena before we pull the trigger and spend a bunch of money chasing down that radical.
Okay.
Jr.</strong> I guess Michael with that said I mean we’ve done enough work on it on the concept to know that REITs are evolving to include some less conventional businesses and as they continue to evolve we’ll keep our finger on that first.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
Good morning.
This is David Warner for Corey.
I had a quick question.
You mentioned some positive trends in January.
I was wondering if you could give a little more color on that whether those are volume trends or you were getting some better pricing what actually occurred in January that makes us optimistic for 2013? Like I said one month doesn’t make a trend but we exited 2012 with some momentum in pricing and that’s what I talked about before because we started in September with our folks putting together detailed plan and we went out in the fourth quarter and said let’s not be shy about implementing this plan let’s not wait till January 1 implement this plan let’s start implementing them right now so that we can make sure we get the full benefit in 2013.
And so from a pricing point of view I think we developed a little bit of momentum in November and December of last year and we saw that momentum carryover into January 2013.
Again we just got our books closed so we haven’t got great detail around it but we certainly saw the momentum from our pricing continue into 2013.
I would say the same thing with respect to volumes we sort of a came out of the back half of the year feeling pretty good about volumes.
It’s interesting that we can talk about 0.4% growth is feeling pretty good about volumes that shows you what I talked about earlier that this industry’s volumes haven’t recovered like some.
But on the volume side we saw some good numbers in January too.
So again I’m not going to – we always say that you got to get four or five months into the year before you can really start to understand what’s going on because of the seasonality because of the weather because of the business Michael.
And so I’m not ready to declare victory but given that we did see those January results we just thought it would be useful to give you all some color to let you know that the momentum that we saw coming out of the fourth quarter continued into January.
Okay thanks a lot.
That’s helpful.
Just one follow-up on the landfill C&amp;D volumes were up I was wondering if you could maybe sort of just disaggregate Sandy out of that and then talk about whether you are seeing some evidence of nation housing recovery showing up in the C&amp;D volumes? Jr.</strong> So actually the large majority of that increase in C&amp;D volumes was due to Sandy.
C&amp;D doesn’t make up a huge percentage of our overall but certainly the percentage increase was impressive and that was primarily due to Sandy.
We are seeing anecdotally and talking to some of the ADPs seeing the housing market start to show some signs of strength.
And I mention that on the special waste side we’ve got a fairly strong pipeline going forward so I think I’d say we’re cautious about optimism.
Yeah I don’t about you all but for about two years from 2010 2012 when I go overseas particularly the China it was the only place you’d go where you see cranes on the skyline.
Over the last year traveling throughout the United States I’m starting to see cranes on the skyline again which I think is a positive sign.
Again we’re not going to call that good times are here again.
But I think it’s safe to say that we believe what we’re seeing is some stability and that we will actually continue to see some modest growth.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Joe Box with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
Jr.</strong> Good morning Joe.
The question in the change of incentive comp I think one you’d mentioned that about 50% is now based on either a cost or margin target.
I’m just curious what that was before? And two I guess what gives you the comfort that putting that high of a target on costs it doesn’t disincentive employees from pursuing growth or working capital or any other critical metrics? Yeah look incentive plan design is part of science part hot.
And I’ve been doing this for a long time and take a lot of time and effort to do it.
And what you’ve got to do is you’ve got to properly balance the metric right you hit the nail right on the head.
You can’t put one metric in that drives behavior because every metric you put in will drive some good behavior and some bad behavior right.
And so you’ve got to put in metrics that that sometimes counterbalance each other.
So when we do our plans we generally look at margin because margin in my mind is what means if you’re going to get profitable growth.
Look we don’t want growth for growth sake.
We want growth at accretive margins.
And so that’s why we put the margin piece in.
Looking back at what you’re talking with the focus on cost we had costs in the program a year-ago but it was less weighted.
We moved the cost side to 50% this year because we are trying to drive two things in 2013.
One is our routing and logistics program and operating costs so I’ll take a step back.
We’ve always said to get that 300 basis points we’re going to get 100 basis points at SG&amp;A from the reorganization which we’ve gotten we then going to get 100 basis points out of operating costs which is our routing and logistics program and then we are going to turn back to SG&amp;A and get another 100 basis points after back-office consolidation.
So we’ve gotten the reorganization we’re now in phase 2 where we need to get 100 basis points out of our routing and logistics program.
We also need to maintain that 130 that we got out of the reorganization.
So we wanted to put a little bit more weighting on cost this year because that’s where the focus is going to be.
The focus is going to be in two places price and cost in 2013 and there is not going to be anything else lot of other things matter but that’s going to be the two things that are going to drive profitability and frankly when you look back at our best years of profitability from 2005 to 2008 that’s what drove it then.
So we decided to put a large waiting that I talked about earlier on that incentive for the pricing side and then we decided to take 50% of the annual bonus and put it on the cost side to make sure that everybody is focused.
And then what we did was we made the field portion is based on operating costs so they’ll be focused on implementing our routing and logistics programs.
The corporate side is on SG&amp;A so that we don’t give away that $130 million benefit that we got last year.
So we think that creates a good balance between cost and growth but we certainly want to make sure that folks are focused on both cost and price in 2013.
Jr.</strong> Joe just to touch on the last part of your question there about providing a disincentive there that’s why we do it on a percent of revenue OpEx as a percent of revenue.
We certainly don’t want to discourage our area leaders from growing their business with things like oilfield services but we just don’t want them to grow to top line while they dilute their margins.
Understood; thanks.
Could you may be just give us a little bit of historical context on this bid pricing that you’ve referred to and may be just talk for the timing and willingness to recycling customers to may be accept those price increases? Sure.
So when we did what we call a business improvement process what we did was we went out and found the true cost to service our customers.
And what we found was about 20% of our customers were actually underwater.
And you know I think it’s a fundamental premise of pricing that when you got a customer that’s underwater you can be a little bit more aggressive trying to raise their price right because if they leave you you are not overly disappointed when you are losing unprofitable customer.
And so we went through that process like I say about 80% of our customers accepted the price increase and those price increases were in the 15% to 25% range.
So some fairly dramatic price increases.
Look we gave away $130 million to $150 million last year in recycling because commodity prices were down our margins went down our return on capital went down and we need to make sure that our customer share some of that plan and simple.
So we need to go out and find those unprofitable customers that we’ve got in our system and we need to make them profitable or let them lead the system.
I think that we will be able to retain them while driving up the profitability but we need to go through that process.
Now it is a completely different process to go through it from a recycling point of view than it was from a commercial point of view because obviously you’ve got a lot of commercial customers and you have an opportunity to do price increases under the contract at any particular point in time.
On the recycling side it won’t b quite so easy.
We do have fewer contracts but many of those contracts don’t allow the type of price movement that we would like to get so we got to wait for them to roll off.
And so we are in the process right now of doing that analysis understanding who are profitable and unprofitable customers are and then understanding when we can take the pricing actions to bring them back to profitability.
Sure.
And then I guess we had to ballpark it I mean do you have a sense of what percentage of your customers would possibly qualify for this? It would be hard to ballpark it but I would tell you you just think about 8 million tons we processed and $130 million that we lost and you can start to see what kind of price increases you need to get right.
I mean look we are not in the recycling business to loose money.
We believe that absolutely we want to be in the recycling business long-term because our customers increasingly are demanding it and we can extract more value out of that material we can make great money when commodity prices are up.
We just need to make sure that we also make more money when commodity prices are down and that’s where we are going to go through and make sure it occurs in 2013.
Understood.
Thanks for your time.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the allotted time for question-and-answers today.
I would now like to turn the conference back to David Steiner for closing remarks.
Thank you all for joining us today.
As I think you can see we’re pretty optimistic about 2013.
We completely recognize that first and foremost Waste Management is a cash generating company.
And in 2013 we’re going to get back to generate that $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion of free cash.
And in 2014 we’re going to get back to generating $1.2 billion plus and growing it over time.
So we’ve got a team that is fully committed to the process.
We’ve got a team that understands the plan and we got incentive plans that are going to drive exactly that behavior.
So we look forward to a good 2013 and a great 2014 and we’ll see you all on the road during the year.
Thank you.
Thank you for participating in today’s Waste Management conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at 1 pm Eastern Standard Time today through 11:59 pm Eastern Standard Time on Thursday February 28 2013.
The conference ID number for the replay is 88156298.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 88156298.
The number to dial for the replay is 1-855-859-2056.
Thank you.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Kimberly and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Waste Management First Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to Ed Egl Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Mr.
Egl you may begin your conference.
Thank you Kimberly.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are: David Steiner President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Fish Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Trevathan Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
David will start things off with a summary of the financial results for the quarter.
Jim will cover our revenue growth including price and volume trends operating costs and the financial statements.
We will conclude with questions and answers.
During our statements any comparisons unless otherwise stated will be with the first quarter of 2012.
Before we get started let me remind you that in addition to our earnings press release that was issued this morning we have filed a Form 8-K that includes the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 and is available on our website at www.wm.com.
The Form 8-K the press release and the schedules to the press release include important information that you should refer to.
During the call you will hear a certain forward-looking statements including our outlook for 2013 which are based on current expectations projections estimates opinions or beliefs about future periods.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of those risks and uncertainties are detailed in today’s press release and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Form 10-K.
Additionally during the call David and Jim will discuss our earnings per diluted share which they may refer to as EPS or earnings per share on an as-adjusted basis.
Our EPS net income and income from operations margin have been adjusted to exclude items disclosed in our earnings press release that management believes do not reflect our fundamental business performance or are not indicative of our results of operations.
These measures in addition to free cash flow are non-GAAP measures.
Please refer to the earnings press release footnote and scheduled attached thereto together with Item 2.02 of the Form 8-K filed today both of which can be found on the company’s website at www.wm.com for reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measure and additional information about our use of non-GAAP measures.
David and Jim will also discuss our results in the areas of internal revenue growth from yield and internal revenue growth from volume.
Unless otherwise stated please note that any references to yield or volume results are more specifically referring to internal revenue growth from yield or volume.
This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning at approximately 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today until 5:00 p.m.
Eastern Time on May 8.
To hear a replay of this call over the Internet access the Waste Management website at www.wm.com.
To hear a telephonic replay of the call dial 855-859-2056 and enter reservation code 26989631.
Time-sensitive information provided during today’s call which is occurring on April 24 2013 may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of Waste Management is prohibited.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Waste Management’s President and CEO David Steiner.
Thanks Ed and good morning from Houston.
We had strong first quarter results and see momentum growing in our business as we start the year.
Our focus on improved pricing cost controls and capital discipline are reflected in our results and should improve throughout the year.
Our traditional solid waste business continued to improve driven by our Collection line of business which saw the first year-over-year increase in margins and income from operations since the fourth quarter of 2011.
We achieved the savings from our restructuring plan as SG&amp;A costs improved from 2012 and we also saw significant improvement in our free cash flow.
For the quarter we earned $0.40 per share an increase of over 5% from the same quarter last year.
These results are right in line with our internal expectations and give us a strong start toward achieving our full year targets.
Looking at our yield in the first quarter of 2013 we saw the positive impact of our pricing program.
Pricing discipline drove our yield to 1.4% from our Collection and Disposal operations.
This is the highest yield since the fourth quarter of 2011 and we’ve seen yield improve sequentially for three consecutive quarters.
If you adjust for our South Florida waste-to-energy plants we achieved yield of 1.6%.
We achieved core price of 3%.
This is similar to the first quarter of 2011 but an uptick from midyear and higher than the current CPI.
Our price rollbacks are at the lowest level we’ve seen since 2007 and have improved for five consecutive quarters without a noticeable uptick in our churn rate.
Both commercial and industrial new business pricing exceeded lost business pricing for the first time in four quarters and our churn improved sequentially.
All of these positive factors contributed to the yield improvement in each of our solid waste lines of business in the quarter.
So we had a good start to the first quarter but we intend to push our yield programs even harder in the coming quarters.
We have yield improvement plans in each of our lines of business so looking at the commercial and industrial collection business lines we’re instituting a new regulatory cost recovery fee of about 2%.
We have a huge amount of regulatory costs and other fees like host fees and disposal taxes and our pricing programs have not kept pace with these costs.
The regulatory cost recovery fee or RCR is the first step in recovering some of those costs.
With respect to our temporary roll-off business we’re moving into our busiest time of the year and our supply of bins and trucks will begin to dwindle.
Consequently we’ve begun to increase prices on temporary roll-off customers to balance out supply and demand.
And although it’s not calculated in yield we’re also recalibrating our fuel surcharge to better capture total fuel cost increases over time.
On the residential side we’ve seen deterioration in municipal bid pricing throughout the United States.
This is despite the fact that our residential line is very capital intensive and generally lower margin.
So we’ll go back to what we did in 2004 to 2007 when we substantially improved margins in our residential line of business.
We will improve our yield and our ROIC.
We won’t bid on new contracts that do not meet our return requirements.
We simply will not chase revenue that does not meet our return requirements and we will bid accordingly.
On the landfill side we’ve seen the return on capital at our landfills deteriorate.
The primary reason is because capital requirements and operating cost inflation have outpaced price increases.
Consequently we intend to increase prices on MSW volumes between 5% and 7% when and as allowed by contract.
And finally with respect to pricing on the recycling side we need to improve margins through adjustment of rebates to reflect reduce market prices and by improving the quality of inbound material that we receive from our customers.
We also need to look at other ways to recover the cost of capital in a low commodity price environment.
One method we’re looking at is imposing a glass surcharge on those customers that require us to process glass.
As many of you know glass is very tough on our recycling equipment leading to more wear and tear and higher costs.
There are also fewer outlets for glass sales so we often have to pay to find an outlet.
We need to recover those costs from our customers through pricing or some sort of surcharge.
We certainly understand the importance of glass in recycling programs and will of course work with our customers on solutions that meet their needs while giving us a fair return.
So as you can see we’ve built up some momentum in pricing and we expect that can continue.
We certainly have some yield headwinds during the year as some of our fees anniversary and as pricing at our south Florida waste-to-energy plants continues to reset but we have good momentum and expect that to continue.
On the volume side adjusting for the two work day difference in the first quarter compared to last year volumes were a positive 0.8%.
This is largest overall volume growth we’ve seen since 2005.
We saw positive volume growth in our recycling roll-off and all landfill lines of business.
Although volumes in our commercial and residential lines of business remain negative we saw sequential improvement in the rate of decline in those volumes.
Winter weather this year had a negative impact on volumes when compared to the mild winter last year offsetting the slight benefit we saw from Hurricane Sandy volumes in the quarter.
Volumes in early April have not seen any substantial pickup from March as late winter weather has hit in large parts of the country but we expect to see a normal seasonal uptick in the second quarter.
As a result we remain comfortable with our full year volume guidance of between 0.5% and 1%.
In our recycling line of business average recycling commodity prices were 12% lower during the first quarter when compared to the first quarter of 2012.
We had an approximate $0.03 decline in our earnings per share for the first quarter of 2013 from our recycling operations.
Our recycling team is currently focused on continuing the business improvement plan our BIP process with our existing recycling customers by increasing prices and managing rebates on underwater customers.
In the first quarter we did see improvement in our rebate management and we expect that performance will accelerate through the remainder of 2013.
We expect to see a negative year-over-year impact on earnings per share from recycling of approximately $0.03 in the second quarter and to show improvements in the third and fourth quarter.
For the full year we still expect to see a negative $0.02 year-over-year impact on earnings per share from recycling operations but given the unsettled nature of the commodity markets I would not be surprised to see that number increase after the second quarter.
Turning to our waste-to-energy business.
Average electricity pricing improved almost 8% in the first quarter when compared to the first quarter of 2012.
We also saw improved operating and SG&amp;A expenses.
These benefits were partially offset by headwinds from rollbacks on tip fees in our south Florida waste-to-energy business where a competitor has bid disposal prices at about a $25 per ton reduction from current rates.
Overall the waste-to-energy business was basically flat when compared to the first quarter of 2012.
We still expect the full year impact on earnings per share from our waste-to-energy operations to be approximately a negative $0.02 per share compared to 2012 due to the timing of outages maintenance and the effect of lower tip fees at our south Florida plant.
In summary we’re on plan through the first quarter and encouraged by the positive momentum that we see in our pricing cost savings and cash flow performance.
Of course the second quarter is always pivotal as we see how seasonality kicks in.
Once we see how solid waste volumes commodity pricing and our yield programs perform in the second quarter we’ll have a better read on how the full year will turn out but we’re still optimistic that we can achieve our full year earnings guidance of between $2.15 and $2.20 per share.
On a final note although we had a very quarter financially that was completed overshadowed by the loss of one of our directors Pastora San Juan Cafferty who recently passed away.
Pastora was with the company for many years and was our longest serving director having joined the Board in 1994.
She’s seen this company through thick and thin and provided sound and sage advice throughout.
Pastora was a champion of diversity at Waste Management and leaves a legacy as both a director and a mentor.
Pastora was also a lover of knowledge and imparted that love of knowledge to countless students as a professor at the University of Chicago.
But most of all Pastora was a friend and she will be dearly missed by me our Board and all of the employees of Waste Management.
And with that I’ll turn the call over to Jim to discuss our first quarter results in more detail.
Thank you David.
I will begin by expanding on David’s discussion of yield and volume in our various lines of business and then we’ll talk to our other big initiatives of costs savings and capital discipline.
Revenue for the first quarter increased by $41 million or 1.2% from the prior-year period.
We grew revenue in spite of tougher winter weather and lower recycling commodity prices when compared to the first quarter of 2012.
The revenue improvement was driven by positive yield on acquisitions.
Yield on our collection and disposal operations grew 1.4% in the first quarter in line with our expectation of 1% to 1.5% for the full year.
Our yield growth for the first quarter of 2013 would have been 1.6% after adjusting for the change in pricing at our waste-to-energy plants in south Florida.
This is the third consecutive quarter of sequential yield growth and demonstrates our commitment to price improvement.
Combines internal revenue growth from yield in our collection businesses was 2.2% in the first quarter with 3.5% growth in industrial 1.9% growth in residential and 1.8% growth in commercial.
This is the highest yield for the residential and industrial in two years and the highest commercial yield since the first quarter of last year.
In the landfill line of business we achieved MSW yield of 1%.
However the combined landfill yield was negatively affected by C&amp;D and special waste.
Overall landfill yield was 0.1%.
Moving to volumes.
Internal volume growth was negative 0.4% in the quarter but a positive 0.8% when you adjust for the two fewer work days in 2013.
The growth was primarily driven by an increase in recycling volumes landfill tons and the industrial line of business.
Specifically in the landfill business C&amp;D volumes grew 14.6% influenced by Hurricane Sandy.
Special waste volumes improved 2.9% and MSW grew by 3.7%.
This is the third consecutive quarter of MSW growth.
Recycling and landfill volume growth was partially offset by collection volume declines of 1.5%.
More specifically commercial volumes declined 2.8% and residential declined 1.3%.
In the industrial business volumes grew by 0.8%.
Operating costs increased by $43 million in the first quarter to 66.2% of revenue compared with 65.7% in the first quarter 2012.
The majority of the increase is related to the increased operating costs from the acquired operations primarily Greenstar labor costs and transfer disposal costs.
Overall our income from operations margin increased 10 basis points to 12.4% when compared to the first quarter 2012.
Note that our margin increase would have been 80 basis points but for the 70 basis points decline in the quarter from our recycling operations.
We are recalibrated our fuel surcharge to improve the recovery of our higher fuel costs.
Historically we have not fully recovered the increases to our fuel expense so early in the second quarter we adjusted the rate to better capture total fuel cost increases over time.
This will not impact our yield but it will allow us to fully recover increased fuel costs and will have a positive effect on the bottom line.
SG&amp;A costs were $390 million in the first quarter an improvement of $17 million and a 70 basis point improvement compared to the first quarter 2012 as a percent of revenue.
The two biggest areas of savings came from labor and non-labor savings due to our restructuring last year.
These savings were partially muted due to an accrual for a true-up for a 2010 through 2012 long-term incentive compensation plan that could not be estimated at year-end Greenstar acquisition costs and a bad debt reserve for past due accounts receivable in our Puerto Rico operations.
Without these expenses our SG&amp;A costs would have improved almost $39 million.
These accruals totaled about $0.03 per share and were not anticipated when we developed our business plan so we were pleased that we were able to overcome this $0.03 per share headwind in the quarter.
With respect to bad debt we took an EPS charge of about $0.01 or $8 million from our Puerto Rico operations.
Although we’ve reserved for this receivable because it’s 120 days old we continue to pursue collection and we are optimistic we will collect the receivables.
If we do collect we will reverse the charge in a future period so the $0.01 EPS charge in the quarter could become a benefit in a later quarter if our efforts are successful.
The quarter puts us on track to achieve our full year SG&amp;A goals.
At the end of the first quarter our weighted average cost of debt was 5.1% and our debt to total capital ratio was 59.8% consistent with our target ratio of about 60%.
The floating rate portion of our total debt portfolio was 11% at the end of the quarter.
Our income tax rate as reported for the first quarter 2013 was the same as reported in 2012 or 32.8%.
We expect our recurring rate to be approximately 35% for the full year.
Turning to cash flow.
First quarter 2013 net cash provided by operating activities was $577 million.
This is an increase of $102 million compared to the first quarter 2012.
The increase is primarily related to changes in working capital related to a lower bonus payout.
We noted on the fourth quarter call that any 2013 incentive compensation accrual would negatively impact our 2013 earnings but the impact on cash from operations would be in 2014.
Our capital expenditures for the first quarter were $266 million a decrease of $113 million compared to the first quarter of 2012 and we continue to aggressively manage our capital spending.
We remain focused on insuring that we spend capital on assets that are performing the best and fit within our long-term strategy.
As we mentioned in February we’re analyzing our asset base to rationalize assets.
This process is currently on track.
Included in that analysis is a detail review of landfills that have a seen a permanent decline in tons over the past five to six years a few of which have become cash flow negative.
When you combine the improvement in net cash provided from operating activities and lower capital spending our free cash flow for the quarter was $348 million.
This is a $246 million improvement from the first quarter of 2012 and puts us well on the way to achieving our goal of generating between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion of free cash flow for the year.
We returned $170 million to our shareholders through our first quarter dividend and we invested $180 million on acquisitions primarily Greenstar.
So far the year is proceeded as expected and we’re on track to achieve our full year objectives.
We have taken further steps to continue to the positive momentum from the first quarter and we expect that our pricing programs our continued focus on reducing costs and diligent capital management will allow us to achieve our goals.
And with that Kimberly let’s open the lines for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Adam Thalhimer of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hey good morning guys.
Nice quarter.
Good morning.
Thank you.
With regards to the Q1 CapEx do you still forecast CapEx for the year of $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion? We do.
CapEx for the quarter was a good story for us and we managed it closely.
We have cut back on several categories of expense specifically landfill capital and landfill gas energy OGG a couple of those categories but really probably categories that we’ve trimmed back than not.
The one category we have not touched as we’ve said in the past was going to be fleet and we really didn’t touch that for the first quarter but we still think we’re on track to finish where we expected which was in that $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion range.
Okay.
And then David as you look at the business as a whole like you said some of the volume and pricing metrics are as good as you’ve seen since 2005.
How do you think that will trend as we move through 2013? Look we always say it every year in the first quarter that the first quarter generally isn’t very indicative of how the year turns out because you haven’t seen seasonality kick in and so we saw some great statistics on both yield and volume in the quarter but we’re certainly not ready to declare victory for the year until we see how the second quarter plays out.
We’ve got a lot of things that we’re doing in the second quarter from a yield perspective.
We need to see how that plays out.
Generally our rollbacks are lower in the first quarter than they are in the second quarter so we need to make sure that we continue to manage those down.
And so we saw some good numbers.
I wouldn’t call them great but we’ll wait and see how the second quarter plays out before we make a call on the full year.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Hoffman of Wunderlich.
Good morning David Jim Jim.
On the volume on the 80 basis points how much of that is share gains on a year-over-year basis versus true growth of volume in the waste generated? I don’t think Michael that we’re seeing any particular share gain.
The only place where we may be seeing some share gain is at the landfill where as you know we’ve used our Oakleaf acquisition to bring in those vendors haulers into our landfill.
And so obviously that volume’s got to come from somewhere.
And so we saw some as you saw we saw some good volumes at the landfill.
On the collection side look you all know that the game we’re playing is not a market share game.
The game we’re playing is a yield game and so I don’t think we gained any market share and I wouldn’t expect to see us gain any market share during the course of the year.
Okay.
And then I think I picked up the explanation for the weaker gross margin is mix and then labor and cost increases.
Is that accurate? Your gross margins are down sequentially and they’re down year-over-year and you pick up make up the difference in G&amp;A.
Is that because of Greenstar and then wage increases? Yeah I would say largely because of two things: Greenstar where we added about $25 million in revenue and $24 million in costs and we’re well on the way of pulling some of that — trimming some of that cost out.
So that was a big driver of it.
Okay.
And then can you share with us on automation how do you sort of characterize where you are on having automated the residential fleet and the opportunities for those kind of ongoing productivity gains? What percentage of the fleet is automated today? And if you looked out three to five years where do you think that target is? Michael this is Jim Trevathan.
We’ve executed the onboard computers in roughly 90% of our fleet.
That’s the first part of the process.
You’ve heard Dave in the past and all of us say there are three parts of that.
First is putting the technology in the truck.
The second part is a standard process and then the third part is just execution from a management accountability perspective and we have rolled out that process to 4 of our 17 areas.
We’ve touched in the last few weeks a couple of more areas.
We’re very early in that process Michael of rolling that out.
It will be over a two- three-year period that we get the value but you’ll see it over time each month and each quarter as we execute the service delivery optimization.
Okay.
And that’s a point I’d love to focus a little bit on.
I mean this is a big positive.
It gives you a place to turn productivity on a continual basis for several years so it’s an angle on that and turning the capital smarter.
So if you framed — it’s early inning so we’re sort of in the first three innings of this and so you’ve got a lot of the game left to play? Is that how to frame it? I think that’s exactly right Michael.
I think we’re in a couple of innings of the game although we’re far along with the direction of the process the execution is what is in the early stages.
Okay.
And then same thing on CNG? As I recall you’re about 11% of fleet today.
What’s the practical limit of what you can take the fleet to? That’s a great question.
Look we’re going to take it everywhere we can with the fuel differential that we have we’re going to take it everywhere we can and basically what that comes down to is where do you have the massive trucks where you can have a fueling station.
And so early on in the game we’re building our own fueling stations where we have enough trucks.
I would expect as you see CNG become more and more popular for over the road vehicles that there’ll be an infrastructure built out for CNG.
So I would think Michael that over time we’re going to be able to convert the whole fleet.
But over the next five years it’ll probably go at about 1 000 trucks a year.
Right now we are at about 12.5% on the fleet.
And so we’re going to — 90% to 95% of the trucks we’re going to buy every year are going to be CNG and we’re going to have to find a way to get to those areas that are more rural sort of the one and two and three-truck operations to make sure that we can move them to CNG but I would tell you Michael that I think we can get to 90% of the fleet in the next few years.
Okay.
And then one last question.
Working capital I assumed you were going to have working capital benefits for the first quarter and I think you should be able to manage to a net neutral for the year given the bonus cash payment issue in this year.
Is that a good way to think about working capital for 2013? I think Michael we knew this was a headwind coming.
We’ve talked a lot about it.
We saw the headwind in the first quarter on the working capital side.
we’ve got some work to do as we’ve talked about in prior quarters on managing things like DSO so that will help us out and DPO as well but certainly we knew that we were going to have that big working capital headwind in the first quarter and I think we did a decent job of overcoming it.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Al Kaschalk of Wedbush Securities.
Good morning.
Morning.
My first question is can you explain how two extra days of work goes from a negative 40 basis points of volume to positive 1.2? It’s actually positive 0.8.
Well the delta of those is 1.2.
You’re correct.
Yeah the delta is 1.2.
You’ve got two extra work days where you are not taking in landfill volumes you’re not sending off roll-off trucks so I can’t tell you the specifics of how our accounting department computes that but it’s basically the effect of having two days where you’re not sending trucks out on the road and you’re not taking in landfill volumes or transfer volumes.
Okay.
Second can you remind us what the SG&amp;A goal for 2013 is? I forget if we’re talking gross dollar savings or margin savings but could you reiterate what your outlook is based on please? Yes.
So what we said in February was that we would be flat year-over-year in absolute spend and an improvement of 10 basis points.
We’re still on track to do that.
And keep in mind there’s a fair amount of headwind that we’re — compensation-related headwind that we’re kind of fighting against there in order to remain flat but we still are confident that we’ll hit our targets.
And importantly Al the point is that — the good news is that when we did the reorganization and we talk about $130 million in savings about 90% of that is SG&amp;A so a little bit over $100 million in SG&amp;A.
So cash-wise we’re going to save that $100 million to $130 million of SG&amp;A but we give it away on the accrual side for compensation.
So from a cash point of view we put those dollars in the bank.
From an earnings point of view it stays flat.
Okay.
And maybe my last and then sort of a clarification but first the clarification.
Can you just confirm that your tax rate is still 35% for the full year? Because it looks like there was a little benefit in the quarter.
But secondly this cost concern obviously that I’m expressing leading to lack of margin expansion particularly on the EBITDA it seems to be still be a struggle for 2013 yet you’re talking about getting price in a market where volume arguably is modestly up on some acquisitions.
So I’m just trying to see how those things work together and drive EBITDA margin up from what looks like probably a low for the year here? But the math just doesn’t seem to hang together right now David.
Yeah.
I guess I would say on the operating cost side and we talked it a little bit last quarter that we knew we had some things to work on.
We have been working on them and shown some real progress specifically on things like maintenance cost where we’d been seeing some pretty big year-over-year negatives.
We’ve started to turn that corner.
Keep in mind that operating expenses while they were up $43 million we talked a bit about Greenstar and Greenstar added kind of a disproportionate amount of that with $25 million in additional revenue and $24 million in additional OpEx.
And right now we’re in the process of paring that back so I think the operating expense story while we still note there’s work to be done is improving.
Look Al the simple point is that when you look at our full year you’ve got yields that we expect to continue to maintain at that 1% to 1.5% level and we’ve talked about the pricing programs.
We don’t expect to lose a significant amount of volume from the pricing programs yield is the primary driver of margin; well it has been for us for a number of years.
On the cost side we’ll continue to manage those SG&amp;A costs.
You should see the volumes uptick in the second and third quarter with seasonality and then finally we had 70 basis points of headwind from recycling in the quarter and you see that abate in the back half of the year.
So I’m not sure what kind of math you’re doing but my math tells me that we’re going to have a pretty good second half of the year.
Great.
My math does the $25 million of revenue and cost from Greenstar doesn’t translate into the — doesn’t explain the sequential difference in gross margin.
And that’s...
Well look we just bought Greenstar and it takes you some time to get those costs out.
And so that’s another — that’s going to be another positive for recycling in the back half of the year; you’re going to be able to consolidate the facilities and lower the SG&amp;A at Greenstar which is going to be another benefit for the back half of the year.
Yeah.
One last point there Al and that is that I mentioned in my prepared remarks but we did have about $22 million in really unexpected expenses.
I mentioned the true-up accrual related to the 2010 to 2012 long-term incentive comp plan.
It really wasn’t assumable at the beginning of — or at the end of the year so we ended up taking it in 2013 but it’s really related to 2012.
And of course we weren’t expecting the bad debt hit that we took with Puerto Rico.
We expect to recover that so there’s some cost there that really we regard as not recurring.
Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
No problem.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Box of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Joe.
Good morning.
Quick question for you on the free cash flow side.
If you go back to 2007 it looks like free cash flow into 1Q has averaged about 20% in the full year.
Granted it’s been volatile but this quarter it came in at about 30% of your full year guidance.
Can you talk to this? And then maybe note if there’s anything outside of working capital of CapEx that could potentially detract from some of the momentum you’re seeing? I think you kind of hit it on the head there.
There was a working capital component to that.
Aside from that I wouldn’t say there’s anything unusual there.
I think we’re pleased with the capital expense management that we’ve been working on and that has provided a benefit.
So I would say there’s not anything usually surprising there to us.
The other thing I’d say Joe is you can’t discount the effect that Jim and Jim have had on maintaining our capital discipline.
I mean they’ve done a phenomenal job down to the dollar of making sure that we don’t spend the capital until we make sure the EBITDA comes in.
Traditionally in the past we’d see a lot heavier CapEx in the first couple quarters from pent-up demand from the prior year and so you’d see the CapEx sort of come out of the gate pretty strong.
This year Jim and Jim have managed that very closely to say look we’re not going to spend the capital in the first half of the year until we make sure that we can hit our cash flow target and once we do that then we can try to get to that $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion in capital.
But you can’t discount the amount of work that those two guys have done managing our capital at the beginning of the year.
Understood.
Thanks.
The rollbacks look pretty good in the quarter.
Two questions there.
How do the rollbacks actually compare relative to a normalized environment? And then what do you think is really different in the market that allowed for the lower rollbacks but yet no change in churn? This is the lowest rollback percentage that we’ve seen in a number of years and that’s a tribute 100% it has nothing to do with the market.
It has 100% to do with our folks out in the field and our sales department.
When we saw the rollback numbers starting to bump up the last couple years we decided that we needed to get to our folks at the save desk and get them some training to make sure that we maintain the pricing discipline.
And I will tell you: it was shocking to me that they were able to do it so fast and so effective.
It’s truly a tribute to our training department to our sales department.
And then David just a question on landfill pricing.
Could you just put some color around what percentage of your overall landfill business could be eligible for the 5% to 7% increase? And then maybe just talk about the cadence of the rollout given I’m sure a lot of it is contractual? Yeah exactly.
About 90% of the volumes coming into our landfill are under contract and so 10% are spot and so you’ve hit the nail right on the head.
We generally on the commercial side we generally have sort of standard three-year type contracts.
On the landfill side it’s a lot different.
Those contracts can range anywhere from short term to one year to long periods of time.
And so generally we’re going to have to wait for those contracts to come up before we can manage the price.
But we’d expect to see as far as the percentage that comes up under contract I think the average life of the contract is three to four years so we’d expect to see 25% to 33% of the volume affected each year.
Great.
That’s helpful.
I’ll leave it at that.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey of Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
On the pricing side when you initially provided your outlook for the year at the end of the fourth quarter of 1% to 1.5% were you expecting to implement the 2% environmental fee surcharge potentially higher pricing on the landfill side? Or does that now present upside risk to your pricing outlook for 2013? Yeah.
When we developed the plans for the year we looked at it from a core pricing point of view not from the new fees.
So the new fees just recently went in.
We’ll know at the end of the second quarter how they’ve been received by the market but no we did not have that built into the plan at the beginning of the year.
We looked at it as the way that we’re going to guarantee that we hit the plan right? I mean nothing ever goes like you plan during the year and so from my point of view on the yield side if we can overshoot the target it gives us a better chance of hitting our goals.
Okay.
Thanks David.
And I think I heard you say on the recycling side that perhaps there is some risk that the total impact on the business from the commodity side this year maybe be a little bit more than $0.02? Yeah.
And I’m just curious what the driver why you think that you potentially expect OCC prices to soften in the back half of this year? Yeah.
Not so much soften but maybe not strengthen as much as we expected.
But what you’re seeing right now is a little bit of unsettled nature in the commodity markets both domestically and internationally.
And so basically right now the pricing is pretty much playing out as we expected it for the year but you do have some unsettled nature in the Chinese markets and in the domestic markets that make me worried that there’s more downside risk than upside benefit right? And so right now we’re right where we thought we would be but I would just say there’s a little more downside risk than upside benefit at this point in time.
That makes sense.
And then my last question is on cap allocation.
If you hit your free cash flow target you should have a lot more free cash flow then what they expect the dividend payout will be in 2013.
Can you just talk about what the appetite for share buyback current is? Yeah.
Absolutely.
When we look at our capital allocation plan I don’t think our capital allocation plan has ever changed since I’ve been here.
Basically what we’ve said is that we’re going to continue to return cash to our shareholders through the dividend and we would expect to continue to increase that over time.
We’re then going to take excess cash and use it for share buyback and paying down debt or acquisitions as they become available.
So you’ve got obviously the dividend is sacrosanct and we don’t expect that to ever go away.
In fact we expect to continue to increase it over the years as we continue to increase free cash flow.
And so you’ve got these three other components of acquisitions of debt pay down and share repurchases and in the past one has been more important than the other.
And at times it’s been acquisitions at times it’s been share repurchases.
Right now I would say that we have our focus a little bit more on paying down debt and then if we have excess cash we would then move more toward buying back shares.
What I’d like to see us do is generate enough cash to where we can pay down a little bit of debt and then we’ve talked about doing the free cash is $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion without divestitures.
And if we can generate some cash from divestitures I would love to be able to at least buy back enough stock to offset dilution for the year.
Got it.
Thank you.
Now by the way we do have $500 million of authorization for share repurchase during the year but again we certainly don’t expect to exercise that till later in the year.
Again as we see how the cash flow plays out; I talked about it from Jim and Jim’s perspective on CapEx.
I would say the same thing about share buybacks.
Once we see how the year’s going to play out and if we can put some divestiture cash on the table then we’ll start looking at trying to offset that dilution.
Makes sense.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Fisher of Raymond James.
Just had a quick.
On the regulatory fee you’re implementing is that separate from the environmental surcharge? And basically if so on say a commercial contract can you put it on an existing contract or do you have to kind of wait till the contract re-ups? Yes.
It is in addition to the environmental fee.
I mean it’s basically a different — it’s basically a different animal from the environmental fee.
The environmental fee has to do with maintaining our landfills and maintaining the environmental compliance with our landfills.
This has to do with the very high regulatory fees and taxes that we pay to manage our landfill our disposal network.
And as far as the commercial question goes we are able to put that in through contracts and obviously there are some contracts like national accounts and some things like that that we can’t but our standard commercial contract yes we can put that in and we’re in the process of doing so.
Okay.
Great.
And then actually you partially answered this in the review of capital spending it sounds like with the restructuring you did there’s more benefits to that going through it.
But can you touch on like I said it sounds like the fleet spending is going to be healthy this year.
Can you touch on some areas where we see reductions? Because your overall target should be down? Yeah I mentioned a couple of them Bill but one that I didn’t mention was recycling.
Obviously spending money on Greenstar has provided some of the growth in recycling so we expect we won’t spend the type of capital that we had originally anticipated or that we spent last year on recycling.
Landfill capital we’re taking a very close look at landfill capital and I mentioned asset rationalization and a part of that process is looking at where we have landfill capital spend that we don’t necessarily need to spend.
And then landfill gas to energy is an area that we have trimmed back so there’s several.
As I mentioned there’s probably more areas that we’re trimming than holding off.
Gotcha.
And could you actually sell some of the — if you decide some of the landfills aren’t meeting the returns could you obviously sell some of those landfills? Or mothball them? I guess you could.
you can do any number of things with them and we’ve looked at whether we should keep them open whether we should ask for expansions once they come to the end of their current sell lives.
So there’s a couple of different options.
We have actually at several landfills even reduced service pretty dramatically which is kind of a lesser form of asset rationalization.
So there’s a couple of different options.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Hamzah Mazari of Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Thank you.
David the first question is just on pricing strategy.
Maybe at a high level you could talk about how this strategy differs from what you’ve done in the past maybe the pricing gate ? You’ve always talked about being aggressive on the landfill.
How is this different? Maybe talk about it at a high level how this strategy is different than the last few years? Clearly the amount of focus that we put on it is dramatically different than last year’s as well as the dollar amount the gross dollar amounts are much different.
On the commercial line of business we’ve walked a number of you all through what we call the pricing waterfall because on our commercial line of business we can’t price increase all the customers.
Some customers are in franchise markets where they go by CPI and so when you look at what we’ve done on the commercial line of business from a price increase point of view the actual number is about 8%.
And so you’re pushing 8% price on the commercial customers that you’re allowed to push price on that’s a pretty aggressive number and frankly it’s a number that we need to be even more aggressive with.
And so I think the focus is that certainly changed the gross dollar amount has changed.
But I would tell you maybe the biggest change from over the last few years is that we have so much better data on how it’s working and so much better training on how we can manage the roll backs.
And so we’ve gone through every aspect of our pricing program and again it’s a tribute to our folks out in the field and to our sales and pricing department.
They’ve basically shored up every piece of the pricing department.
Look I’ve been here 10 years.
We know how to do price increases.
What we’ve gotten better at is doing surgical price increases and keeping those price increases.
So I expect to see that continue to improve over the next couple of years.
Got you.
And then on the sale of non-core assets I assume that’s early in the process and how aggressive or passive are you being there? Has that number gone up since last quarter? You know you mentioned some lands fills there you’ve mentioned Puerto Rico maybe.
Just starting to get a sense of where you guys are in that process.
Yeah we had about $30 million of sales in this quarter.
I will tell you Hamzah that we talked about the bad debt in Puerto Rico that certainly has an effect on whether we can sell those operations or not.
And then the other non-core assets in the oil and gas arena you’ve seen a little bit of volatility in oil prices and so I would say from the beginning of the year I still expect that we’ll sell some of that but we’re not going to put that into the bank.
And so I would say that we might be a little less optimistic on the sales proceeds that we’ll get from non-core divestitures but again we’re going to hit that $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion in free cash and so those dollars for us are just excess dollars that we can apply to returning to our shareholders.
Okay and just a last question on the waste-to-energy business is this a growth business for you guys anymore? A few years ago you were trying to throw capital at that business or is this just a disposal mechanism for you guys and energy prices are sort of optionality? How should one think about this business? Yeah I mean clearly the growth in waste-to-energy is going to be overseas.
I would say that as far as our Chinese operations we’re certainly the leading American company in China maybe the leading non-Chinese company in China.
And there is absolutely no doubt that we are the leading American company in Europe and in Great Britain where the bulk of the growth is occurring.
So I will tell you our waste-to-energy folks have done a phenomenal job of developing relationships and winning bids overseas.
Domestically you’ve got a little bit of growth but you don’t have nearly the kind of growth domestically that you’re going to have overseas.
So basically I think you’re exactly right.
What you see domestically is that it’s a play on natural gas and electricity prices and then the growth will come from overseas.
Great.
Thank you.
Sorry go ahead.
Domestically also there’s a bit of growth from things like metals recovery and special waste as well which we think is a nice market for us.
Got you.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Corey Greendale of First Analysis.
Hi.
Good morning.
It’s actually David Warner for Corey.
In your Q4 filings you actually quantified the volume impact of Sandy.
Do you know what that was in Q1? Or if you don’t have that handy whether that was larger than Q4? No it wasn’t larger than Q4.
It was roughly $2 million $2.5 million.
Okay.
And you’ve talked about pushing through price increases on your recycling customers that are underwater.
Can you give us a sense of the number of customers you have there or the proportion that are significantly underwater and where you are in the process of getting them back to profitability and what you see in terms of churn with those customers? Yeah we’re early enough in the process that I couldn’t give you an exact percentage of how many of them are underwater.
And about 50% to 55% of those customers are actually under contract so it’s a little bit harder to move them.
And so the BIP process I snot going to be an event.
It’s going to be a journey.
But I can guarantee you that our recycling team is focused on it.
They made some good progress in the first quarter and I’d expect that momentum to build over the next few quarters.
Okay.
And could you give us an update on special waste and drill cuttings anything materially different from Q4 that you’ve seen there? Yeah we’ve seen that business continues to grow.
The energy business is a nice growth business for us.
We’ve seen an uptick year-over-year of — we’re still in the probably 40% growth range year-over-year.
And we would expect to continue to grow that business not only in the existing shale plays that we’re in but in some of the other shale plays that we’re not.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Stewart Sharp of S&amp;P Capital.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Could you just add a little more color on the percentage of glass recycling and surcharges? And how much comes from glass? And also just generally C&amp;D waste market? And if you see that improving as the housing market is now improving? That’s basically it.
Sure.
The C&amp;D market actually in the first quarter was very good for us.
We don’t expect that to slow down.
In fact you saw some still saw some winter weather in the first quarter and the first few weeks in April so we’d expect to see that continue to be strong throughout the year.
With respect to glass the issue that you have with glass is that it more than any other commodity it hurts your equipment right? As you process the glass it puts a lot of wear and tear on the equipment.
So there is no — we look at a uniform processing cost for materials that go into our recycling plants but there really is no uniform cost for recycling materials because different materials are handled different ways whether they’re in dual-stream or single-stream plants.
And the glass would be by far the most cost intensive to process at our facilitates.
They create the most wear and tear and it’s just harder to process.
On top of that there aren’t very many markets for the glass so in many cases we actually have to pay to find a market for the glass.
So that drives a significant amount of the lack of profitability in our recycling operations.
What’s going on with our recycling team right now is they are basically doing a clean look at recycling and saying in a low-commodity environment when do we need to do? It’s pretty simple to say that we need to go back and manage rebates.
That’s easy.
But what else can we do to change the dynamics in the recycling industry so that we can get the return on capital on a more steady basis and not go through the volatilities of commodity pricing? And one of those factors is finding a solution for glass whether it’s having a surcharge for glass or finding better outlets for glass we need to do something to make sure that we’re recovering that money.
What we’re looking at right now is a glass surcharge so that for folks who want to maintain glass as part of their recycling program and most municipalities do we’re going to have to charge — we’re not going to charge a flat processing fee for the glass.
We should charge a higher processing fee because of the wear and tear on the equipment.
So that’s basically what’s going on.
But with the recycling team they have started to doing a soup to that review how do we not only improve profitability in a low commodity priced environment but how do we also try to reduce some of the volatility that we see.
And what’s the percentage of recycling is? The percentage of glass I’d be guessing but it’s probably 30% when it look at it by weight for us it is the second largest commodity we have by weight after fiber.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Barbara Noverini of Morningstar Hi good morning.
Good morning.
So I just wanted to revisit the EMP sector one more time.
Are you guys equipped to offer a hauling servicing for ethane drilling sites or is this mainly leveraging land cost of especially permitted south near the act of shale plays? I guess it’s somewhat dependent on the side of the sale but we’re certainly equipped to handle the hauling services probably our biggest play is in Marcellus up in Pennsylvania and we handle quite a bit of hauling there of solids also of waters as well.
So we’re part of the differentiation for us has being able to provide a full perfect solution which includes hauling disposal industrial services and similar smaller items.
Got you.
When you think about the business you deal with the great discount by percentage what’s collection versus disposal? Well it does differ by size but still hard to break it down.
And some of these sites are seeing rig movements for example Marcellus is seeing a lot of rigs moving over next door to Utica and across the United States over the Bakken.
So in places like Eagle Ford we’re not doing as much hauling because we don’t have hauling operations in close proximity so most of our revenue in the Eagle Ford comes from handling of solids into our landfills.
But in places where we have hauling operations in close proximity to a drill site we’re doing a lot of hauling of solids.
Got you.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We have no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the call back over to David Steiner for closing remarks.
Thank you.
On a final note we have a proud member of our family that we want to recognize.
Ricky Glover is a highly respected driver in our South Carolina operations.
He’s been providing excellent and safe service to our customers for 15 years.
Ricky’s daughter is Candice Glover one of the final four contestants on American Idol.
Candice has come out on top of thousands of contestants to reach the final four.
And recently she performed a song that other judges on American Idol called the best performance in the history of the show.
So on behalf of Waste Management’s 44 000 boys I want to say go Candice.
And we all want to wish her the best of luck tonight as she continues her quest to be the next American Idol.
Thank you for participating in today’s Waste Management conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at 1 pm Eastern Standard Time today through 11:59 pm Eastern on Wednesday May 8 2013.
The conference ID number for the replay is 26989631.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 26989631.
The number to dial for the replay is 800-585-8367 855-859-2056 or 404-537-3406.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may disconnect.
Good morning my name is Rochelle and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Waste Management Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions).
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the call over to Ed Egl Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Mr.
Egl you may begin your conference.
Thank you Rochelle.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are David Steiner President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Fish Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Trevathan Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
David will start things off with a summary of the financial results for the quarter including internal revenue growth from yield and volume.
Jim will cover our revenue growth price and volume trends operating costs and the financial statements.
We will conclude with questions and answers.
During our statements any comparisons unless otherwise stated will be with the second quarter of 2012.
Before we get started let me remind you that in addition to our earnings press release that was issued this morning we have filed a Form 8-K that includes the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 and is available on our website at www.wm.com.
The Form 8-K the press release and the schedules to the press release include important information that you should refer to.
During the call you will hear certain forward-looking statements which are based on current expectations projections estimates opinions or beliefs about future periods.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of those risks and uncertainties are detailed in today’s press release and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Form 10-K.
Additionally during the call David and Jim will discuss our earnings per diluted share which they may refer to as EPS or earnings per share on an as-adjusted basis.
David will also discuss operating EBITDA as defined in our Form 8-K filed today.
Our EPS and operating EBITDA have been adjusted to exclude items disclosed in our earnings press release that management believes do not reflect our fundamental business performance or are not indicative of our results of operations.
These measures in addition to free cash flow are non-GAAP measures.
Please refer to the earnings press release footnote and the schedules attached thereto together with Item 2.02 of the Form 8-K filed today both of which can be found on the company’s website at www.wm.com for reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures and additional information about our use of non-GAAP measures.
David and Jim will also discuss our results in the areas of internal revenue growth from yield and internal revenue growth from volume.
Unless otherwise stated please note that any references to yield or volume results are more specifically referring to internal revenue growth or IRG from yield or volume.
This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning at approximately 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today until 5:00 p.m.
Eastern Time on August 13.
To hear a replay of this call over the Internet access the Waste Management website at www.wm.com.
To hear a telephonic replay of the call dial 855-859-2056 and enter reservation code 97883740.
Time-sensitive information provided during today’s call which is occurring on July 30 2013 may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of Waste Management is prohibited.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Waste Management’s President and CEO David Steiner.
Thanks Ed and good morning from Houston.
During the second quarter our earnings per share grew to $0.54 overcoming $0.03 of unexpected headwind.
We had a negative $0.02 additional headwind from our recycling operations and a negative $0.01 from litigation settlements.
Without these headwinds we would have earned $0.57 per share close to 10% earnings growth.
Our disciplined approach to improving price reducing cost and managing capital expenditures is reflected in this earnings growth and in our free cash flow.
So we are pleased with our results of the second quarter and year-to-date which are right on plan despite the negative impact from our recycling business.
The story of our quarter is that we had very strong results in our traditional solid waste operations but overall results were muted by unexpected headwinds in our recycling business.
Even with these headwinds our operating EBITDA margins grew by 20 basis points.
In our traditional solid waste business we grew income from operations margins by 80 basis points driven by our yield and cost program.
We expect this margin expansion to continue throughout 2013 and to accelerate into 2014.
Volumes improved sequentially in all of our collection lines of business except recycling and roll-off.
We offset roll-off volumes losses with very strong yield which drove 90 basis points of margin expansion in our roll-off business.
In our recycling business we expected the second quarter impact to be a negative $0.03 to earnings per share.
The actual result was a negative $0.05.
Looking out to the third and fourth quarters we originally expected a positive $0.04 impact on earnings per share when compared to 2012 from our recycling operations.
We now think that the impact from our recycling operations will be flat year-over-year in the second half of 2013.
Thus we now expect the full year negative impact of $0.08 per share versus the negative $0.2 per share we had originally anticipated.
Many of you heard about the Chinese Green Fence which is affecting our recycling operations.
The Chinese government has recently begun to enforce limits on moisture and non-conforming materials in imported fiber and plastics.
The higher quality expectations have translated into additional labor and maintenance costs to remove residual waste from the recycle of materials that we process for our customers.
It has also resulted in fewer volumes to sell because of the higher residual material that in turn has reduced revenue and increased residual disposal costs.
So you can see why the green fence has had a negative effect on the results of our recycling operations.
As we discussed we have been implementing a business improvement plan in our recycling line of business.
First we will be working with our customers to improve the quality of the inbound streams of material.
Our contracts with many large customers limit the amount of residue in the recyclables they delivered to us.
We will be working with them to ensure compliance with these limits or we will charge them to cover our increased costs.
Second we are modifying our operating procedures to reduce costs and residual waste.
Finally we will also look at each of our recycling facilities and rationalize those that continue to lose money.
Our municipal commercial and industrial customers want to recycle their waste materials.
We have the best assets in the industry to support that desire but we will do so with the pricing and operating strategy that supports both our customers and our shareholders.
Our solid waste pricing programs had a very positive impact in the second quarter of 2013.
Yield from our collection and disposal operations was 2.1%.
This is the highest yield since the first quarter of 2011 and we have seen yield improve sequentially for four consecutive quarters.
If you add in our fuel surcharge and adjust for our South Florida waste-to-energy plants we achieved yield of 2.6%.
We achieved core price of 3.6% an increase of 110 basis points in the second quarter of 2012.
It’s worth noting that the uptick in yield more than offset the reduction in volumes.
So our pricing program is working very well.
During the first quarter we mentioned the steps that we’re taking to improve yield and in the second quarter we saw positive results.
Average rates for both commercial and industrial new business pricing exceeded lost business pricing for the second consecutive quarter.
Service increases on our commercial business exceeded decreases for the first time since the third quarter of 2010.
And price roll backs are down almost two-thirds from the peak in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our pricing momentum continued to build in the second quarter.
In our commercial line of business we have the highest yield that we’ve seen since 2011 at 3.1%.
Importantly our pricing actions didn’t reduce in the commercial line.
In fact volumes improved slightly over the first quarter of 2013.
On the industrial side we did not see volume growth in our industrial line with volumes down 1.2% for the quarter.
What we did see in our industrial line of business was a yield of 4.8% which is the highest yield since Q1 of 2007.
We also saw the highest new business pricing that we have ever seen in our roll-off line of business.
The (inaudible) roll-off customers some value service and quality and some value price.
We are clearly more focused on obtaining higher margin customers that value service and quality.
And we simply won’t chase low margin roll-off business.
And the trade up is very positive in both our commercial and industrial lines of business we saw margins expand by a 100 basis point.
So we’ve focused on core price increases and we’ve moved core price close to 4%.
In future quarters we will continue that focus but we will also turn our attention to fees and surcharges.
When you look at our average customers overtime the combination of fees and surcharge is between 20% and 30% of the total bill.
So every time we waive the fees and surcharges it’s the equivalent of giving a 20 to 30 price decrease versus the opportunity.
Increasingly we’ve seen our competition offer to waive fees and surcharges particularly in the roll-off line of business.
When we matched that action it equates to the 20% to 30% roll back of prices which dwarfs a 4% core price increase.
So in the second half of 2013 we will focus on obtaining the fees and surcharges.
With fuel and environmental compliance cost growing drastically over the years this is the only way that we can ensure we cover our increasing cost so that our other program margin can drive margin expansion.
Overall volumes were negative 0.6% in the second quarter.
But it’s important to note that one of the main drivers of the declining volume was under a cycling business.
Recycling volumes were down almost 1% a notable swing from recent increases in the range of 6% to 8%.
Volumes have been impacted by China’s Green Fence initiatives.
And we’ve also seen several large new plants pass their first year anniversary.
In both our commercial and residential lines of business we saw a sequential improvement in the rate of declining volumes for the third consecutive quarter.
For the second half of the year we don’t expect volumes to change much from the second quarter.
That assumes slightly negative collection volumes.
But our increase in yield should more than make up for the lower volumes.
In our waste to energy business average electricity pricing improved almost 5% in the second quarter when compared to the second quarter of 2012.
We also saw improved SG&amp;A expenses.
These improvements basically offset an increase in repair and maintenance cost due to the timing of outages.
Overall the waste-to-energy business was basically flat for the quarter and the first half of 2013 when compared to the second quarter and first half of 2012.
We still expect the full year impact on earnings per share from our waste-to-energy operations to be approximately a negative $0.02 share compared to 2012.
In summary we had greater than expected recycling headwinds from the second quarter but we overcame.
Consequently we’re on plan for the first two quarter of 2013.
We overcame the headwinds through good cost controls and an IRG that is more weighted to price than volume.
We expect that our continued execution on yield and cost will help us manage against the $0.08 per share of recycling headwinds that we anticipate for the full year.
Accordingly we still expect to achieve full year guidance of between $2.15 and $2.20 of adjusted fully diluted earnings per share and free cash flow of between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion.
This quarter clearly shows how well our field operations can perform when they are focused on the right items.
In the past few years we diluted some of the messages to our field operations but this year we asked them to focus on two things yield and cost and in the second quarter they delivered on both.
Our overall IRG was right where we expected it to be but weighted more toward price than volumes which is a very positive fact.
Jim will talk about our cost programs.
When it comes to yield we put the plans in place and our core business field leaders are doing a superb job in executing the plan.
We are focused on adding volumes in the higher margin lines of business like our Landfill and Commercial lines.
In our lower margin lines of business we are either going to improve their profitability or we are going to disinvest in them.
Given cost inflation we must have better pricing to drive sustainable margin expansion in these lower margin lines.
We simply will not chase volumes at inadequate prices.
For example we have not bid on a number of residential contracts and in those that we do bid we are generally bidding higher prices.
This may cost us some volumes.
But losing volumes on a low margin line of business can be a very smart move to drive returns on capital.
This is particularly true in the residential line of business that on a non-integrated basis contributes about 15% of our collection earnings but takes up over 40% of our fleet capital spend.
In the temporary roll-off business many competitors are willing to put their teams to work at a low price.
We will not do that.
As I mentioned our new business pricing in our roll-off line has hit its highest level in the history of our company.
The 100 basis points improvement in margins in our collection business reflects the success of this trade-off of price versus volume.
Obviously if we are going to charge higher prices we need to provide greater value by being a service leader and we have a number of programs designed to give great value to those higher priced customers.
We are constantly trying to improve the value delivered to the prices we charge and we will continue to add programs for those customers to make their experience the best in the industry.
I will now turn the call over to Jim to discuss our second quarter results in more detail.
Thank you David.
I will start by discussing our strong SG&amp;A and cash flow performance then I will expand on David’s comments about results of operations from our traditional solid waste business and yield and volume in our various lines of business.
I will conclude with a discussion of our financial metrics.
In our SG&amp;A cost category we continue to see results of our restructuring and focus on controlling cost.
SG&amp;A cost were $353 million in the second quarter and 10% of revenue an improvement of $21 million and an 80 basis point improvement compared to the second quarter 2012 as a percent of revenue.
The two biggest areas of savings came from labor due to our restructuring last year and our focus on lower controllable cost.
These savings were partially muted by $30 million incremental compensation plan accrual that did not occur in 2012.
Bad debt expense improved SG&amp;A cost by $8 million due to the partial collection of a receivable at our Puerto Rico operation.
Additionally DSO improved sequentially.
In fact we improved DSO sequentially for three consecutive quarters.
We are pleased with the second quarter SG&amp;A results but we still have a lot of work in front of us to achieve our full year goals.
In the third quarter we expect approximately $45 million of headwind in SG&amp;A from incentive compensation accruals.
We only have $30 million in the second quarter of 2013.
However for the full year we still anticipate achieving our goal of flat SG&amp;A costs when compared to full year of 2012.
Turning to cash flow second quarter 2013 net cash provided by operating activities was $545 million.
This is a decrease of $124 million compared to the second quarter of 2012.
In 2013 we had $117 million increase in taxes paid based on our higher income and the timing of estimated tax payments.
In 2012 we benefited from $72 million of proceeds from swap terminations.
Cash from operations was very strong.
Net of those two items cash from operations would have been up $65 million.
Our capital expenditures for the second quarter were $235 million an improvement of $116 million compared to the second quarter of 2012.
We remain disciplined on ensuring that we spend capital on assets that fit within our long-term strategy.
As we have mentioned in the past we are also looking at rationalizing our asset base.
For instance during the quarter we recorded an impairment charge on a disposal facility that was cash flow negative.
When we closed the facility we will move the volume to another waste management facility so that we maintain the associated revenue.
Putting all of this together our free cash flow for the quarter was $347 million an increase of $15 million compared to the second quarter 2012.
Year-to-date free cash flow increased $261 million to $695 million.
If you exclude proceeds from sale of assets free cash flow was $621 million year-to-date and puts us well on the way to achieving our goal of generating between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion of free cash flow for the year.
We returned $171 million to our shareholders through our second quarter dividends.
We invested $30 million on acquisitions and we repaid $290 million in debt.
Our pricing programs are improving each of our collection lines of business as well as our overall results.
Yield on our collection in disposal operations grew 2.1% in the second quarter.
Our yield growth for the second quarter of 2013 would have been 2.6% if you include the fuel surcharge and adjust for the change in pricing at our waste energy plants in south Florida.
In the third quarter we will see a portion of our contract reset price again on tip fees in our South Florida waste energy business where a competitor took some volumes at about 40% per ton reduction from our rates.
Combined internal revenue growth from yield in our collection business was 2.9% in the second quarter with 4.8% growth in industrial 3.1% growth in commercial and 1.5% growth in residential.
The industrial yield is the highest that we have seen since the first quarter of 2007 and for the commercial line of business it’s the highest since 2011.
The increase in yield has not had a significant impact on collection volumes as the commercial and residential lines of business saw sequential improvement in the rate of decline of volume loss.
In landfill line of business we achieved MSW yield of 1.8%.
Moving to volumes internal volume growth was negative 0.6 in the quarter.
The decline was primarily driven by a decrease in recycled volumes as David mentioned.
We saw collection volume decline by 1.4% although the rate of decline on collection volume slowed.
More specifically commercial volumes declined 2.7% industrial volumes declined 1.2% and residential declined 1.1%.
In our landfill line of business volumes were positive 6.6%.
MSW volumes grew by 6.3% primarily from increased Oakleaf vendor hauler volumes and special waste volumes grew 5% as our pipeline for jobs remains strong.
We also saw strong volumes from revenue generating cover and C&amp;D tons.
When you look at our overall operating results our income from operations margin was flat at 14.8% when compared to the second quarter 2012.
As David mentioned our traditional solid waste business Collection landfill and transfer stations had a very good quarter.
Income from operations in those lines of business increased $47 million and income from operations margins increased 80 basis points.
The collection lines of business drove most of the income from operations increase.
Both our commercial and industrial lines of business improved when compared to the second quarter of 2012.
Residential business continues to be a challenge primarily in the South where contract changes in Florida related to the waste energy business drove a slight decline in income from operations.
So the 80 basis point improvement in the traditional solid waste business was offset by a decline in recycling business.
We have been very clear with our field operations that we must pass through the recycling increases to our customers in the coming quarters.
Turning specifically to operating expenses the improvement that we saw in our traditional solid waste business was muted by an increase in operating expenses primarily from increased cost in our recycling operations and the timing of repair and maintenance at our waste energy facilities.
These items were $35 million of our $51 million increase.
We remain focused on controlling cost and expect to see improvement as we progress through the remainder of 2013.
In fact when you look at our traditional solid waste business our maintenance costs were essentially flat when compared to the second quarter of 2012.
Finally looking at our other financial metrics at the end of the second quarter our weighted average cost of debt was 5.1% and our debt to total capital ratio was 58.9% consistent with our target of about 60%.
Floating rate portion of our total debt portfolio was 10% at the end of the quarter.
Overall the results of proceeding is expected as our pricing and cost control programs have allowed us to overcome that recycling headwinds in the first two quarters and remain on plan.
The results of the first six months of 2013 have put us in position to achieve our yield SG&amp;A and earnings per share and free cash flow goal.
We continue to take a strong stance on controlling SG&amp;A cost.
We saved $38 million year-to-date when compared to 2012 our stated goal for SG&amp;A is to remain flat with 2012.
Even though the third quarter comparison would be tough at $45 million of compensation accrual headwinds we still expect to meet our full year target.
Similarly we’re applying a very disciplined approach to capital management.
Combining this with our focus on yield SG&amp;A and our improvement in working capital and earnings we’ve already generated $621 million of free cash flow exclusive of failed assets.
This puts us more than half way to our goal.
We will continue this disciplined approach in order to achieve our free cash flow goal of $21.1 billion and $1.2 billion for 2013.
And with that Rochelle let’s open the line for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first line comes from the line of Hamzah Mazari with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Good morning Hamzah.
And happy birthday by the way.
Hey thanks a lot.
Appreciate it.
The first question David is just on volume.
It seems like the recycling business is 12% of revenue.
It’s not that big.
You guys said that it’s 1% down on volume.
Is all of the volume loss or below volume relative to expectations given what you’re seeing with the rest of the sector.
Is that all you guys just walking away from lower margin roll-off business or is there something else in that as well.
Yeah I think that’s basically – Hamzah I mean as we mentioned we got the highest new business pricing that we’ve ever seen in the roll-off line of business.
When you think about it if you look at the roll-off line of business as a 20% call or 20% margin business every time you get a new can 20% of it drops to the bottom line every time you get 1% price a 100% drops to the bottom line.
So you have to get 5% volume in order to make up for 1% price.
What we saw in this quarter was basically you saw the quarter-to-quarter change in yield was 1.3%.
In order for that to equate to a fair trade-off we have to get 7% volume.
You can’t do that in this business.
And so we went around and talked to our folks out in the field and they said look we can go get roll-off volume if you want us to.
But what we’re going to do is we’re going to mess up the market at a lower price and we’re going to get low margins on it.
We would much rather go out at higher price offer good quality for what we’re doing.
And get that higher price roll-up volume and as you can see that trade-off worked very well with 100 basis points of margin expansion.
Okay.
And maybe if you could give us a sense of the lag that it may take the field organization in making the adjustments on the recycling business to get the surcharges and fees how much of a lag do you think it’s going to take the field to get rid – the recycling from sort of not being a margin headwind.
Is this more of a two quarter lag or any sense of expectation there? Yeah I mean there are two sort of two pieces to the recycling business.
There is the commercial recycling that as this closes we can get sort of the spot recycling if you will.
And on those types of transactions we can change the price today and we got folks and teams out in the field just doing that.
In other cases we have long term contracts with municipalities and other folks and we need to get through those contracts we need to understand what our rights under those contracts and We need to go and talk the customers.
So it’s there are pieces of it that we can do quickly there are pieces of it that take time.
I would say frankly Hamzah overall it’s going to take little bit of time.
But what we’ve told our field operations is we don’t have luxury of time right now.
I mean we are losing money in our recycling operations in most of our recycling operations we’ve got to turn that around.
We’ve got to turn around now.
And just last question from me.
I’ll turn it over.
The land fill pricing it seems like that decelerated at 1.8% relative to sort of the mid 2% it was running.
Could you maybe comment on that? Thank you.
Actually it was up in the quarter from prior quarters.
Last time we saw yield that high was Q1 of ‘12 on the MSW line.
But look we talked about it very vocally that we need to get that sort of 5% to 7% increase of the land fill.
That is like the recycling business in that you got lot of long term contracts.
You have to work through those issues.
And we’re absolutely working through those issues.
We will not back down on our 5% to 7% price increase.
Thanks a lot.
Sure.
Your next question from the line of Bill Fisher with Raymond James.
Good morning.
Good morning Bill.
Hey first of Jim you mentioned I think I just want to make sure I had the numbers right of operating cost increase like 30 million of it was Wheelabrator maintenance and recycling is that roughly right? About 35 million was a combination of the one-time Wheelabrator advance maintenance events and recycle.
So the rest of it you did a math roughly was the cost was only up 1% or so you had good cost control on the rest of it.
Yeah you know one thing Bill that we have talked a bit about in previous quarters was maintenance cost.
Actually in our traditional on our core business maintenance costs have improved by 11 basis points so while it’s not where we want to be we are starting to move in the right direction.
Okay great then quickly on the acquisitions and divestitures did you – I thought I saw in that Quebec papers did you guys were able to close that RCI transaction? Are you able to read the Quebec papers? Yeah I had to translate it but that’s what it looked like.
Yes we did we closed it early July.
Okay and any rough hand on what the annualized revenues on that would be? Yeah the annualized revenue is roughly a 170 million.
Okay.
Bill when we had actually intended to close that we had an agreement to close that for quite a while.
When we gave our full year guidance we actually expected to close that at the beginning of the year not in the middle of the year.
So it is baked into our guidance but it will be a great acquisition for us.
Lucien Remillard built a spectacular business up there and we are looking forward to leveraging the great company that he built.
Okay you have some decent overlap on the hauling side too or do you not have that? Well you know frankly this is sort of a minnow swallowing the whale we have a fairly small presence from a collection point of view in the Montreal market area.
RCI had a much bigger presence.
So we are going to keep the RCI brand in Montreal.
Okay great thank you.
And your next question from the line of Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
First question I want to ask about the price so given that it is moving in the right direction would you say that you have most of the pricing actions kind of fully baked in Q2 so we should expect a similar level price in Q3 or would there still be some acceleration as you keep implementing that stuff.
Yeah you know the regulatory cost recovery fee we did not we did not get a full quarter benefit out of it in this quarter because we implemented it sort of in mid quarter.
But we will also have you know some head wins coming in the back half of the year from CPI from the reset contracts in Florida.
All in all I will call it sort of a wash.
We said in the beginning of the year that we would be at sort of 1 to 1.5 % yield for the first half of the year we were at 1.7%.
I now expect that for the full year we would probably be at that 1.5% to 2 % type of range.
You know there are a couple of factors that come into the second half of the year that lead me to not try to say we are going to see dramatic acceleration but I can promise you from a total dollars to the bottom line we haven’t taken our foot off the pedal.
In the sense how much of that 2% yield from the regulatory recovery would be? Just about $8 million in a quarter.
Right.
And you talked about the non-compliance in some cases with the fees and surcharges can you put some kind of parameters on that like how much of an – what percentage the customer base is compliant with that and what kind of opportunities to get to get closer to 100% compliance? Yeah I mean look the opportunity is tremendous when I talked about it especially at 20 to 30% price decrease when you waive fees and surcharges.
On a commercial line of business we are about 85% compliant on the roll off line of business we are only about 55% because basically what you have got the roll off line of business you know it is a little bit baffling to me in the low margin line of business you see folks out there waiving fees and surcharges on the roll off line of business.
So it is very competitive in the roll off line of business our compliance is about it 55% so you know just take 20% to 30% price roll back and add it back into that and you can see the dramatic effect that has on earnings.
On that front as you trying to see new entrants into that business or is it primarily the entrenched players that you are seeing being more aggressing and wait and see.
Well you know I think it is I think that one is sort of across the board I think there is obviously a lot of competition in the roll off line it’s very low barrier to entry.
But I would say that it is sort of across the board.
Generally what you have seen is that the smaller players sometimes don’t even have the fees and surcharges the larger players generally are the ones that will roll it back.
Okay and then just a quick housekeeping one for Jim? Jim what would you suggest the tax rate for the back half of the year? We obviously we are going to approach the statutory rate of 35% and I will stick to that.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
This is actually Usha Gunthapally on behalf of Alex Ovshey.
How are you? Good morning doing well.
Great.
Just on the CapEx expectation for full year 2013 the run rate so far seems to be below your initial guidance.
How do you think about a lower bound? Well I would say that we are still on track to hit our guidance of 1.3 to 1.4.
Typically we see an acceleration of capital spending in the second half of the year.
So it may look like if you straight line it you are going to get 1.3 to 1.4 range.
We will more than likely see an acceleration in the second half as we always do and end up right within the range.
Got it and one more.
So on roll back in second quarter they were lower by 45% year-on-year without increasing the churn rate.
Does this imply improved pricing discipline in the industry generally? No I don’t think there is any doubt.
You know I mean look we can’t particularly speak for the industry.
We can only speak for what we do and I can promise you that there is absolutely no doubt there has been increased discipline with our folks as far as rolling back prices and look it’s a tribute to our sales folks and to our training folks who you know this doesn’t happen just by putting an edict out that we are not going to rollback prices.
There is lot of training that goes into it lot of preparation goes into there is lot of work by our customer service reps that go into it and they have done a phenomenal job turning it frankly that fast.
Got it and any expectation for second half on roll-off fees? Yeah generally roll-off or rollbacks? Rollback.
Sorry.
Yeah generally rollbacks do pick up a little bit in the back half of the year but we are doing a nice job of holding the line and I wouldn’t expect to see it materially change.
It could pick up a little bit but I wouldn’t expect to see it materially change.
Got it thank you.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Joe Box with KeyBanc Capital.
Really nice job on the SG&amp;A front.
I understand you guys reiterated your flat year-over-year guidance and I guess that makes sense with comps getting tougher in 3Q and accruals sequentially ramping.
I am just curious if you maybe give us a little more color on how much flexibility you have toward that flat guidance? You know is that a stretch or are you thinking you could actually put up better SG&amp;A margin given improvement you have seen so far? You know Joe I would say it’s not a huge stretch but it’s also I don’t think we have a whole lot of room there either.
I think we are probably pretty comfortable with flat year-over-year which is saying something considering you know the comp headwinds that we have faced.
So I think we are probably on track to hit the flat guidance with 2012 that we have given.
Okay and switching gear to the recycling side.
I am sure we could probably back into the so I just want to check.
Can you just flush out with the swing in recycling volumes ended up contributing to the 60 basis points of volume degradation that you had? Yeah we will run that calculation for you and check it and get the number to you.
Okay yeah that will be helpful.
And then… But frankly speaking I don’t know how to do that complicated math.
Was there any difference then between your internal marks what you saw from the volume basis there or your broker volumes or was it basically one and the same? It was basically one and the same.
Great that’s all from me.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thanks Joe.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Hoffman with Wunderlich Securities.
Good morning and thank you for taking my call.
Hey Michael.
Good morning Michael.
How are you doing David Jim? Can we just push on the volume subject a little bit? I get the model.
You are going to push price and you are willing to push some less marginal volume away but if I look at the business that you have got in place and kept to customer what’s happening on the volume and those customers? You mean As far as weights or…? Yeah like I mean it’s like in your front end water business are you seeing container rates starting to rise? Because I wouldn’t think you would push this pricing forever if you didn’t think the macro volume environment was gradually improving as well.
Yeah I don’t think there is any doubt that we’re seeing improvements in the commercial line of business.
Again it’s not dramatic but it’s consistent and so we saw waste up frankly across all of our collection lines in the quarter obviously was a very wet quarter so that added some to the waste.
But the other thing that is very encouraging to me is what we mentioned about service increases and service decreases for the second quarter in row we’ve seen service increases outpace service decreases which tells you that yeah there was some wet weather in the second quarter but we are seeing the customers start move up to larger containers.
So again like we said in the past we’re not going to declare victory it’s certainly a long slog for us to get there but in the commercial line of business we actually are seeing some very good sign.
And then if I parsing the customers at the land fill so third party delivering C&amp;D is that on a rise which would be consistent with the sort of improving construction environment? Yeah we saw C&amp;D volumes up in the quarters I recall around 4.5% that side yes 4.5%.
So across the land fill we’re seeing actually very good volumes.
We saw volumes up nicely on the MSW side C&amp;D were both up.
And so if you look it comes back to what I said in the script.
If you are going to add volumes let’s add them in the right line of business and if you’re going to be aggressive on the pricing must be aggressive on pricing in those low margin lines of business where the only way you are going to drive look it takes a long time to drive cost out of this system.
And so you are never going to get margin expansion if all you are going to do is drive cost.
And so in those low margin lines we absolutely have to raise price.
And like I said the five to one trade off in a 20% line of business is well worth it when you think about residential line of business call it 10 to 15% margin.
If there was 10% margin customer you can gain 1% volume and 1% price and lose 10% of your volume and still be equal.
By the way price comes without any capital investment.
So this is Michael this is not any different than what we did from 2004 through 2008.
It’s what I said – script I think we got the message to the field a little bit mixed the last couple of years and we got them unfocused on price and cost.
We got it back.
You saw some progress in it this quarter.
We still got a long way to go.
But I think you are going to see it accelerate throughout 2013 and 2014.
So where I would connect the dots between your comments and my question there is a point of operating leverage it just starts to accelerate as macro volumes continue to improve you continue to be successful on this price as well as the discipline around the G&amp;A what’s your thoughts about the visibility on that? Where are we are you away from that we just – away from that where is that? Well look I am encourage that we saw the EBITDA margins turned positive this quarter.
Look I will tell you Jim talked about the flat SG&amp;A guidance for the rest of the year.
Jim Fish and Jim Trevathan have done a phenomenal job on holding the line on SG&amp;A cost.
So I don’t expect to see SG&amp;A cost to go up materially this year or next year frankly.
And so we got to drive operating costs out of the system.
We’re starting to get a little bit of traction on that.
And I think what we saw was look the biggest leverage is always going to come from yield in this business and I think you saw start to get some traction back in that in the quarter.
So all we need is for the economy to continue to improve so that we don’t the dramatic volume drop as we saw in 2009.
And I think you’ve begun to see the leverage in the operating model I think you should see that accelerate in the next 18 months.
One quick point Michael on operating expenses as David talked about I mentioned that a big slog of that operating expense was related to I think when you think about the leverage going forward if we can’t squeeze that operating cost out that’s related to this quality control from China and we plan to pass it through to our customers.
And that in itself helps us to reduce operating expenses as a percent of revenue.
It’s a great point.
Every penny we improve in recycling drags straight through the bottom line and there is lot of room for improvement there right now.
Okay.
So my last documentation on this it sounds like if I take the bonus accruals for this year plus the headwinds from bonus depreciation but net it against the success you are having on G&amp;A pricing and operating leverage you should be able to produce flat year-over-year free cash flow maybe even a teeny bit of growth given those two cash headwinds.
You know Michael we are waiting for 2014 to give the guidance but look I said all along this is a business that should generate $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion the free cash flow come hell and high water.
You know look we didn’t do that last year that’s not going to happen again.
The other thing that I can say that Jim and Jim have been phenomenal at is the capital discipline and we are going to manage the capital such that we make this at least to $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion free cash flow company every year come hell or high water I wouldn’t expect that to change next year.
Michael did you say we are flat for 2014 versus 2013 are you saying flat? Yeah.
All right.
Yeah flat so in ‘14 you should do 1.1 to 1.2 again even with those headwinds given the leverage from your price and your cost controls.
Yeah I just want to make sure because 2012 to 2013 there is going to be a dramatic improvement in free cash flow.
All right Michael you snuck 2014 guidance out of us but I will give it to you.
We are going to do at least 1.1 to 1.2 in 2014.
There you go.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hi thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
The green fence cost do you think that is permanent and how long should it take to get to pass those cost on your customers? Yeah you know we have looked a lot at this and as you can imagine it’s been a big topic of conversation and you know there is so much international trade involved that it’s hard to get really good visibility but we have sort of decided that we need to take the approach that it is going to be if not permanent at least long term.
You know we can’t sit back and say well we are just going to let the business continue the way it’s been in the past and wait for the green fence to clear and everything is going to be alright.
We are not going to take that approach.
And if we are not going to take that approach we absolutely have to start driving cost out of the system and going back to our customers and getting our customers to pay for the increased cost that we are incurring for the reduced commodity prices.
So you know look I will tell you I don’t even want to try to put guess on the timeframe to when recycling gets back to where we wanted to be.
All I can tell us is that we need to see incremental improvement every quarter and we got the plans in place to do that.
And how are the recycling contracts structured? I mean how? Do they come up once every five years so it’s hard to push price or how hard is it to push price I guess is the question? Yeah I mean it depends on the customer right? So we have got plenty of commercial recycling customers that are just like our regular commercial customers where we can change the price immediately and then we got other customers that are municipal customers where the contracts are going to be more to three to five year type traditional municipal contracts.
And so what we have done is we have asked every one of our operations to get their top contracts.
Let’s start with those let’s go with the dollars first and let’s go to our biggest contracts in every one of our market areas and start going to those customers and you know most of those contracts are going to allow us in some manner to either pass on increased price lower rebates or high processing cost and so let’s go after the big ones and let’s make sure that we go out and talk with those customers to cover our increased cost.
And then on the other side the non-contracted customers like our commercial customers we run a couple of pilots to look at what we can do from a pricing point of view there and we are going to spread those across the country.
Look from a commercial recycling customer point of view it’s going to be a lot of places where they are going to have a decision to make.
They are either going to have to pay us more to recycle or they are going to have to move back away from recycling and just use disposal can and so we got to do that.
It’s certainly not something that we relish doing but you know we need to have the customers to make the decision on what they want us to do from a recycling the materials point of view.
Adam one quick point here on these contracts.
Well it may sound difficult to change the price many of these contracts have residual percentages in them and many of these contracts have composition components to them so we’re going to go and look and see whether and we’ll hold these customers for their contracts.
If their residual percentage is 10% and we’re getting 20% ahead of their contract then we’re going to go back to them and have a discussion.
And similarly if we expect to get the certain percentage of glass by weight out of a municipality we’re getting a much bigger percentage of glass.
And then we’ll also go back and have a discussion with them.
Hope you’re successful right.
Because that doesn’t seem like the trend is going to slow down.
I mean imagine your commercial customers are going to continue to recycle.
Just the matter of you being able to push price right? Absolutely they’re going to continue to recycle and we look forward to help them recycle.
All right.
And one more question I hate to ask.
Because I know you’re not focused for analyst trying to plug numbers into model I mean more of your thoughts on volume growth in the back-half.
Yeah obviously no one knows of the future holds.
But beginning of the year we said we were going to have positive volumes obviously in the second quarter.
What you saw in the second quarter was recycling driving the both of the – I don’t know if we got the number yet.
But we saw recycling driving the bulk of the decrease in volumes and the only other line of business where we saw negative volumes on the roll off side where volumes were negative 1.2%.
Now about half of that was the anniversary of the large national account that we brought up.
So it’s not like you’re seeing volumes follow up the face of the earth and sort of like that.
But we didn’t expect the volume decline in recycling.
And we don’t expect to see our roll off line bounce back to where we’re getting usual cost of volumes because we’re not just going to change the margin of business.
So for the back half of the year I think we’re looking at volumes similar to what we saw in the second quarter.
But look basically what you saw in the second quarter is our volumes went down 0.5% and our price went up 0.5%.
And if I can get our price 0.5% and our volume down 0.5% I’ll take that trade off six days to Sunday.
Okay.
Great color.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line Jeff Osborne with Stifel.
Good morning two quick questions for you David.
On the green sided the rules have been in place for quite some times.
My understanding but is the enforcement from China stepped up over the past couple of months.
Is that part of the issue of play here? Yeah with the change in premiers in China you saw early this year you saw basically a declaration by them across all sort of type of environmental initiatives.
And so even though the regulations been on the books they finally just passed I mean not just passed they just mandated that they’re going to enforce those regulations.
Basically in February this year.
Understand.
And then on the M&amp;A side just what you’re seeing out there in terms of either tuck ins or potentially getting the oil and gas which I think you talked about at the Waste Expo conference.
Yeah.
We just closed as we mentioned our RCI deal in Montreal that was obviously a fairly a large deal for us.
Other than that we’re just looking at sort of our typical smaller tuck in acquisition.
On the oil and gas side we closed the small acquisition there.
We’re constantly looking for further acquisitions.
But that’s been a fairly pricing market.
So I don’t anticipate that we’ll spend a lot of money there.
At this point in time I’d say we’re through the largest acquisition that we had in the pipeline.
RCI was basically the final one of those.
And now we’ll back to sort of our typical $100 million to $200 million of tuck in acquisition.
Very good.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your final question coming from the line of Al Kaschalk with Wedbush.
Good morning David.
Good morning Tim.
Hey Al.
David in terms of – I apologize I joined the call late.
But have you commented on how the integration of RCS is going I know it’s one month.
But could you just comment.
Yeah we didn’t specifically comment it.
But what we got in Montreal is that we have fairly small collection operation.
And so we’re basically tuck in operation into RCI.
So far that’s gone very well.
RCI had some very high quality management there.
So they’ve done a great job of tucking our operations into theirs.
And the interest of the acquisition was largely predicted on what.
In terms of the opportunities that you see going forward.
Besides that previously having a lot of collections operations there.
Yeah I mean Montreal was a very fairly unique market for us.
In that we had a lot of disposal capacity.
But very little in the way of collection operations.
We tried build up those collection operations over time but frankly they got some they have one spectacular company there in RCI that made a difficult for us to get into the collection business and so we had a landfill that pre-recession was actually find because there was an excess of tonnage in the market and our landfill is fine.
After the recession frankly there wasn’t enough a tonnage in the landfill in the market to fill all the landfill and so we had a choice to make.
We could either get deeper into the collection business to help feed our landfill network or we were going to see volumes deteriorate at our landfill and we were going to be at the mercy of other collection companies.
And so it was a perfect tuck in acquisition for us it’s a great market we’ve been looking at it for a long time – I’ve said earlier ran a great business and we look forward to continuing this success.
This is an MSW landfill David or is there other ways can take? No it’s MSW.
Okay.
And then finally if may and sorry this has been a topic that I missed.
But on the SG&amp; front you have talked about cost savings on the growth side of 120 million you did 10% I believe as a percentage of revenue in the quarter how much of that benefit lock of better word is due to the lower recycling volumes and how much are you really on track to hit that growth target number? Due to the lower recycling volumes I wouldn’t say any of its due to the lower recycling volumes.
It’s really due to two things if I say there is several things in play but certainly the restructuring has had a big impact and we’ve kind of gone over and above the restructuring by taking out a chunk of none labor SG&amp;A as well throughout the year.
So those are the two big components of our SG&amp;A and we’ve talked about not only holding flat from 2012 to 2013 but looking to hold flat from 2013 to 2014 in absolute dollars.
So 353 dollar run rate is what you’re suggesting we should think about in terms of Q3 forward.
Well so Q3 has ad we talked about this a bit earlier but Q3 and Q4 have a bit of headwind with respect to compensation accruals year-over-year.
So while we’re up for the first two quarters of the year we expect we’ll have a little bit of headwinds and that’s why I think where we’re comfortable saying that we’ll be flat year-over-year.
Jim my point about recycling is that.
If prices are down then I would think that would hurt the operating margin on that business and there may be some I won’t say idle cost but let’s say not fully utilized cost.
And that’s what I am just giving trying to getting to an EBITDA margin of 25% I think is above that is easy hurdle.
And then we just didn’t see the progress in the quarters.
So I am trying to decide for that whether that was an SG&amp;A or an operating cost? It was operating cost at our recycling operations.
We remember that had a 90 basis points effect on margin.
So it was purely solid when it comes to recycling basically the breakdown you had is it the both of the problem with pricing and was pricing commodity pricings down 12.5% for the quarter.
Next was operating cost operating costs are up because we have to get lower residue and then you have the volume and the integration of the acquisitions pieces a little bit small pieces in there too.
So look at the two bigger things are price and operating costs.
And those are two things that we can affect and recycling you can affect from price by going and looking at rebate you can affect operating costs by driving the inefficiencies out of the system.
So that’s where we’re focused on recycling.
When we talked about margin expansion we are 20 basis points of EBITDA margin obviously that would have been back over 100 if we’ve gotten just flat in recycling.
Once we get to the point where we are positive from the recycling operations that’s when you really see the leverage there.
Okay.
And you’ve looked what’s the assumption on commodity price David or Jim for the sort of back half of ‘13? We expect to be pretty much flat for the rest of the year you had to make your run up and we’re expecting it sort of flat for the rest of the year.
Okay.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you Mr.
Dave Steiner do you have any closing remarks? No thank you all for joining us in the quarter and I know Jim and Jim will be out on the road in New York next week.
So look forward to seeing you out on the road.
Thank you for participating in today’s waste management conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at 1’o clock pm Eastern Standard Time today through 11:59 pm Eastern on August 13 2013.
The conference ID number for the replay is 97883740.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 97883740.
The number to dial for the replay is 1800-585-8367 or 1404-537-3406.
Thank you and you may disconnect at this time.
Good morning.
My name is Jenisha and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Mr.
Ed Egl Director Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Jenisha.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are David Steiner President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Fish Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Trevathan Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before we get started please note that we have filed a Form 8-K this morning that includes the earnings press release as Exhibit 99.1 and is available on our website at www.wm.com.
The Form 8-K the press release and the schedules to the press release include important information.
During the call you will hear a forward-looking statements which are based on current expectations projections estimates opinions or beliefs about future periods.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of these risks and uncertainties are detailed in today’s press release and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent Form 10-K.
David and Jim will discuss our results in the areas of internal revenue growth from yield and internal revenue growth from volume.
Unless stated otherwise please note that any reference to yield or volume results are more specifically referring to your internal revenue growth or RG from yield or volume.
Additional any comparisons unless otherwise stated will be with the third quarter of 2012.
During the calls David and Jim will discuss our earnings per diluted share which they may refer to as EPS or earnings per share on an as-adjusted basis.
David will also discuss operating EBITDA as defined in our Form 8-K filed today.
Our EPS operating EBITDA operating EBITDA margin income from operations income from operations margins operating expenses and prior year SG&amp;A expense have been adjusted to exclude items that management believe do not reflect a fundamental business performance were not indicative of our results of operations.
These measures in addition to free cash flow are non-GAAP measures.
Please refer to the earnings press release footnote and the schedules attached thereto together with Item 2.02 of the Form 8-K filed today both of which can be found on the company’s website at www.wm.com for reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures and additional information about our use of non-GAAP measures.
This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning at approximately 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today until 5:00 p.m.
Eastern Time on November 12th.
To hear a replay of the call over the Internet access the Waste Management website at www.wm.com.
To hear a telephonic replay of the call dial 855-859-2056 and enter reservation code 66496035.
Time-sensitive information provided during today’s call which is occurring on October 29 2013 may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of Waste Management is prohibited.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Waste Management’s President and CEO David Steiner.
Thanks Ed and good morning from Houston.
We’re pleased with our results for the third quarter as our earnings per share increased 30% on an as reported basis and 6.6% as adjusted to $0.65 per share.
At the beginning of the year we said that we would get back to basics by focusing on yield and cost controls.
Our corporate and field managers have done just that and done it very well.
On the cost side SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue is 9.6% the lowest since 2005.
Our operating cost program continues to gain traction and should expurgate into 2014.
On the yields side our results again show that focusing on yield works and we will continue to do so.
Driven by the improved yield we expanded both income from operations and operating EBITDA margins in the quarter.
Despite continued headwinds confronting our recycling and waste to energy businesses and modestly lower volumes.
In the third quarter our overall income from operations grew $33 million and the overall income from operations margin grew 20 basis points.
We also grew overall operating EBITDA by $46 million and overall operating EBITDA margin at 10 basis points.
The results were even more impressive when you drill down into our traditional solid waste business where income from operations grew $71 million and the income from operations margin grew a 120 basis points while operating EBITDA grew by $74 million and operating EBITDA margin grew 90 basis points.
This demonstrates the continued strength of our core solid waste business.
In our recycling business we expected the third quarter impact to be a negative $0.01 to earnings per share.
The recycling operations actually were of negative $0.02 effect on the quarter.
In the quarter we saw a slight improvement in recycling commodity prices that was more than offset by increased cost from the operations of acquired businesses and the continued impact of the Chinese Green Fence.
For fourth quarter recycling operations we had most recently projected a positive $0.01 impact on earnings per share when compared to 2012.
We now think that the impact from our recycling operations will be approximately a negative $0.03 per share in the fourth quarter which is slightly worse than Q3.
That is a result of tougher year-over-year comparisons and relatively flat commodity prices when looking at our full basket of recycled commodities.
So for the full year we anticipate that the negative impact from recycling operations will be around $0.13 per share.
The last two years at our recycling facilities have been characterized by low commodity prices and higher operating costs.
We have incurred extra costs as we have had to reduce contamination from materials processed in our single stream plants to improve the quality of our bails to meet regulatory and customer requirements.
In addition recycling commodity prices can be volatile which leads to volatile earnings in our recycling business.
There is no quick easy solution for these challenges.
So we are taking a variety of steps to increase earnings and decrease volatility.
These solutions require us to change the way that we contract with our customers.
Already our areas are having more direct conversations with customers and are successfully decreasing rebate because of increased contamination levels in the customer’s recycling streams but we must do more.
Going forward our contracts will contain the following protections that we need in effort to earn an acceptable return on the capital that we have invested in our recycling business.
First many recycling contracts simply call for a split of the revenue from the sale of the commodities.
This approach limits our ability to fully recover our processing costs when commodity prices are low.
So our new contracts will call for us to be paid a processing fee before there is a split of revenue from commodity sales.
However when operating costs go up as they have under the Chinese Green Fence we still risk losing money unless we can recover those increased costs.
The single largest factor driving up processing cost is the level of contamination in the materials that we receive from our customers.
So the second change we will make is that going forward our customer contracts will have contamination limits.
We will also require a mechanism to audit the inbound materials to ensure compliance with those limits.
If the materials contain too much contamination either we will recover a higher processing fee or we will reduce the rebate for the customer to cover our increased costs.
We will also continue to educate our customers of the proper materials to placing their recycling wins through our recycle often recycle write program to try to reduce contamination rates.
Third our contracts need to have some flexibility to increase the processing charge or decrease rebates when outside business factors drive up our processing or other costs.
So for example if regulations like the Chinese Green Fence increase our costs we should be able to pass-through incremental pricing to cover those costs.
Finally we need to do a better job of working with our customers to ensure that we can earn an acceptable return on commodities that are or that may become low value commodities.
For example today we lose money recycling glass.
In most locations we have to pay a third-party to take the glass.
For those types of materials our contracts need to contain language that either allow us to pass along those increased cost to our customers or allow the customer to make a decision to remove a low value commodity from the recycling stream until such time as the commodity could be economically recycled.
So as you can see there is no easy fix in the recycling business.
Our recycling contracts are generally three-year to five-year contracts.
So over time as more and more of our contracts contain these protections we should see recycling return to being a more stable income producer that consistently earns a fair return on capital.
Turning back to yield our yield from our collection and disposal operations was 2.3% the fifth consecutive quarter of sequential yield improvement and nearly triple the yield we saw in the third quarter of 2012.
If you add in our fuel surcharge and adjust for our South Florida waste-to-energy plants we achieved yield of 2.8%.
We achieved core price of 3.9% which is an increase of 160 basis points from the third quarter of 2012.
This is our best core price performance just before 2010.
We also saw the highest core price in over 10 years in the commercial and industrial lines of business and the second highest in the landfill line of business.
Our yield increase in the quarter more than offset the loss in volumes resulting in overall growth in revenues and margins.
The benefit of strong yield is most evident in our industrial line of business where we achieved the highest ever income from operations and income from operations margin despite negative volumes.
This industrial income increase was driven by yield of 5.5% and core price of 8.4% which is the highest and nearly a decade.
We have also intentionally shared low margin roll-out volumes and avoided adding low margin new business repeatedly over the years.
The yield versus volume trade-off always favored yields.
In third quarter we proved this once again.
Of course we want to retain our current customer base but we want to do so using tools other than price.
We will focus on improving retention by providing customers with better service and higher value solutions but we will not chase volumes with low prices or large roll-backs.
In our commercial and residential line of business we have the highest yield that we have seen since 2011.
Commercial yield was 3.4% in the quarter and residential yield was 2% finally MSW yield was the highest since 2010 at 1.9%.
Taking the loan the yield story is the great one but the bigger story is the increased income from operations and margins in each of these lines of business that are driven by increased yield.
The commercial business saw increased margins of 40 basis points; industrial margins increased a 130 basis points.
Residential margins increased 60 basis points and our landfill margins increased 80 basis points.
We saw this margin growth even though volumes were down 0.6% in the quarter and down 1.3% on a work day adjusted basis.
However the lower volumes were more than offset by higher yield.
For the quarter recycling volumes declined 1.2% versus last year’s high single digit growth.
Our waste to energy volumes were down 3.2% primarily due to lower third party volumes at our South Florida plants.
We also saw a modest sequential decline in volumes in our collection and landfill business.
On the positive side we are encouraged to see that the service increases in our commercial business exceeded service decreases for the second consecutive quarter.
In summary we maintained our disciplined approach to improving price reducing cost and managing working capital and capital expenditures which is reflected in our third quarter results.
We remain confident that we will achieve our goals despite an expected $0.13 per share of full year headwinds from our recycling operations which is $0.11 per share more than we anticipated at the beginning of the year.
Based upon our year-to-date results we are confident that we can achieve our guidance range of between $2.15 and $2.20 of adjusted EPS.
And with our strong free cash flow we’re raising our free cash flow target by a $100 million to between $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion.
So we have laid a solid foundation in 2013 a foundation built-up yield and cost control and driven by our corporate and fields management who continue to perform at an extraordinary level.
That foundation is serving us well in 2013 and we expect the foundation to continue to drive high single digit earnings growth in 2014.
I will now turn the call over to Jim to discuss our third quarter results in more detail.
Thank you David.
I will start by discussing our SG&amp;A cost and cash flow performance.
Then I will expand on David’s comments about the results of operations and volume in our various lines of business.
I will conclude with a discuss of our financial metrics.
Our SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue was 9.6% of third quarter; this is the lowest expense since third quarter 2005.
We improved SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue by retaining the savings from our restructuring and focusing on control of cost.
We did so despite of net increase of $50 million in accruals for our annual incentive plans.
The $50 million change was driven by a reversal of the 2012 bonus accrual and a normal accrual in the current year for incentive compensation.
SG&amp;A cost were $3.49 million in the quarter an increase of $17 million compared to the third quarter of 2012.
In the third quarter we saw improvements in bad debt litigation settlements and professional fees which were offset by the compensation accruals that I mentioned earlier.
Without those accruals SG&amp;A cost would have improved $33 million.
On a year-to-date basis SG&amp;A costs were lower by $19 million despite an increase of $93 million in compensation plan accruals over 2012.
Turning to cash flow third quarter 2013 net cash provided by operating activities was $736 million.
This is an increase of $162 million compared to the third quarter of 2012.
The strong performance on a working capital yield and cost control were the primary contributors to the almost 30% increase in net cash provided by operating activities.
Working capital improved during the quarter as we tightened up on our receivables and payables.
This is particularly evident in our DSO where DSO has improved for three consecutive quarters and improved more than two days when compared to the third quarter of 2012.
Our capital expenditures for the third quarter were $323 million which is $79 million lower than the third quarter of 2012.
Through the first nine months of 2013 capital expenditures were $824 million.
We still anticipate capital spending of between $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion for the full year of 2013.
We remain disciplined on ensuring that we spend capital on assets that fit within our long-term strategy and generate acceptable returns.
Putting all of this together our free cash flow for the quarter was $452 million an increase of $272 million compared to the third quarter 2012.
Free cash flow in the quarter was $413 million if you exclude divestiture proceeds.
Year-to-date free cash flow was $1.15 billion as compared to $614 million for the first nine months of 2012 an improvement of $533 million.
Excluding divestiture proceeds year-to-date free cash flow was $1.03 billion.
As David said based on strong year-to-date free cash flow driven by yield SG&amp;A savings working capital improvements and capital spending discipline we are raising our 2013 free cash flow targets from between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion to between $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion.
We returned $171 million to our shareholders through our third quarter dividends and we invested $488 million in acquisitions primarily the acquisition of RCI in Montreal.
Yield on our collection and disposal operations grew 2.3% in the third quarter.
We believe that on average we need about 2% of yield to cover cost inflation.
Over the last two years our yield has not been enough to recover cost inflation.
However over the last three quarters we have shown sequential growth in yield and in third quarter we fully offset the cost inflation in our business.
Moving to volumes internal volume growth was negative 0.6% in the quarter and negative 1.3% if you adjust for the one additional day in the current quarter.
We saw overall collection volume decline by 2% a modest deterioration from the second quarter level of negative 1.4%.
More specifically commercial volumes declined 3.1% industrial volumes declined 2.2% and residential declined 1.4%.
In the industrial line of business we continue to see tough competition for both temporary and permanent roll-off work.
For example we have seen temporary roll-off volumes declined 3.1% while our rate per hall has increased by more than 5% we emphasized price over volume gains.
We will continue our focus on improving yields and on pursuing higher margin roll-off business.
This trade-off was very profitable for us in the third quarter as our industrial line of business achieved the highest income from operations and income from operations margins that we have seen.
In the landfill line of business volumes were positive 4.1%; MSW volumes grew by 4.3%; and C&amp;D volume rose 9.3%.
Combined special waste and revenue generating cover volume were positive 1.9%.
That growth is a reflection of the growth we have seen in our energy services business.
When you look at overall operating results our income from operations margin increased 20 basis points to 16.8% when compared to the third quarter of 2012.
As David mentioned our traditional solid waste business collection landfill and transfer stations had a very good quarter.
Income from operations in those lines of business increased $71 million and income from operations margins increased 120 basis points.
The collection lines of business drove most of the income from operations increase as all three lines of business increased when compared to the third quarter of 2012.
These improvements were partially offset by a combined 70 basis point decline in our recycling and waste energy operations.
In our waste energy business average electricity pricing improved almost 3% in the third quarter when compared to the third quarter of 2012.
The price improvement was offset by a lower volumes and an increase in repair and maintenance cost due to timing of plant turnarounds.
Overall the waste energy business earnings per share were almost $0.01 lower than the third quarter of 2012 and we expect a similar headwind in the fourth quarter which is consistent with our annual guidance of negative $0.02 per share given at the beginning of the year.
In recycling business we have seen increased cost related to Chinese Green Fence and from acquired operations.
In addition to the structural contract changes as David mentioned we’re also focused on operating cost improvement.
We’re looking at ways to reduce the 10% increase in operating cost at our cycling facilities.
This will take some time but we have to decisive action to generate an appropriate return on our investments in recycling assets.
Turning specifically to operating expenses the acquired operations of RCI and Greenstar accounted for almost $60 million of our $97 million increase in operating expenses.
The majority of the remaining increase related to other recycling cost the timing of repair and maintenance at waste energy and the timing of repair and maintenance at waste energy facilities.
Finally looking at other financial metrics at the end of the third quarter our weighted average cost of that 5.06% and our debt to total capital ratio was 58.9% consistent with our targeted ratio of 60%.
The floating rate portion of our total debt portfolio was 13% at the end of the quarter.
Our disciplined approach to yield management cost control and capital spending is working.
Despite significant projected headwinds for the full year from our recycling operations the results of the first nine months of 2013 have put us in a position to achieve our exceed our yield SG&amp;A earnings per share and free cash flow goals and we’re not going to change our focus.
We thank all of our employees who worked hard to achieve these excellent results.
With that Jenisha let’s open the line for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Hamzah Mazari of Credit Suisse.
The first question is just on you know how should investors think about your ability to buy back stock you know given higher free cash flow guidance but also given some other moving parts like you know higher CapEx spend you know next year you will have you will presumably going to payout bonuses which aren’t in cash flow this year but your cost control is better.
So maybe help us think about the moving parts you know leverage on the balance sheet how do we think about buy back here? You haven't been in the market for a while.
Couple of things here first of all in 2014 we expect to allocate free cash flow to dividends as we always do about a 100 million to a 150 acquisitions and the remainder to go towards the combination of debt repayment and share repurchase and in fact we have proceeds from divestures and the proceeds from the exercise of stock options this year that we plan to use to buy back some shares in Q4.
I will determine how much of that we will use once we see October free cash flow.
When you think about what you talked about which was couple of the headwinds that we have on free cash flow we have got you know the bonus payout we have the expiration of bonus depreciation which will negatively impact us by that 230 million and on the other side we have the drivers of this year which we will expect to continue of course yield cost control capital discipline and working capital management.
So and of course we intend to drive operating costs next year as well.
I expect 2014 to be a solid year for us even with a little bit of headwind from those two items.
Okay and just on the recycling side could you give us the sense of you know the time frame and really negotiating these contracts.
You know do you have to wait for these to expire you said they were 3 to 5 years and does that Greenstar acquisition earlier this year how does that mix differ from your legacy business and does that complicate the process further in terms of fixing the recycling business?  Yeah you know we do have to wait for those contracts to expire but even in our existing contracts you know we have got plenty of contracts right now that have contamination level clauses and so we need to go back and forth that’s why we say today we’re having conversations with our customers about that and we’re seeing some movement.
We just can’t see a movement across the 100% of the base.
So it's going to take that three years as we see the contracts roll off.
As far as the mix from Green Star we inherited a couple of bad contracts in that deal but as far as the mix no it’s not a dramatic mix different than our current recycling business.
Okay great.
And then lastly could you remind us how much of your business now resets on CBI in Q3 traditionally? Thank you.
Well about 40% of the entire business reset and that’s generally about 50:50 between January 1 and July 30.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot Dave.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Corey Greendale of First Analysis.
Hey good morning.
Good morning.
Couple of questions.
So first of all it sounds like underlying volume trend to a positive but could you just speak to that a little bit more specifically given it sounds like you are pushing some volume all way because of the focus on yield.
So just speak to broadly what you are seeing in the economy any reasonable variation what you are seeing in terms of that customer service levels any increases yet?  Yes what we are seeing what I’d call I think you would characterize it correctly I recall the volume environment very stable.
On the industrial side we aren’t going to chase that low margin business right.
And so other folks are going to chase that low margin business they are going to fill up their capacity and we are going to go on the other side we are going to get yield on the industrial side rather than volume.
So as we said that that trade-off was pretty spectacular with margins on the industrial line moving up 130 basis points.
The residential line I would say pricing and volumes are fairly stable but there is always some interesting bidding on the residential side.
And look I will tell you in the last few years we probably had some interesting bids on the residential side.
We have gotten much more disciplined on making sure that we don’t go after residential business which is generally low margin low return on capital and high investment of capital.
We are just not going to chase those kind of volumes unless we can get sufficient returns.
And then I guess the one that’s really popped up the most recently is on the recycling side.
We recognized that we have to make a systemic change in the way we approach the market on recycling so that we can get long-term stable earnings.
And I talked about the four things we are going to do to change the way we approach the market but you still see some folks that are out bidding large recycling contracts with just with a low processing fee or a simple split of the revenue.
And my guess is that the market will adjust to these environments of high operating cost and low commodity prices.
My guess is the market will adjust but we can’t control that.
Also we can control is what we do and we are going to take a much more disciplined approach to the recycling market.
Okay.
And actually following up on that point some of the changes that you are talking about have you had any feedbacks from the market either from customers or from your people in the field on the receptivity to that kind of stuff? And then what’s involved in managing some of these things like the auditing the recycling stream what’s involved operationally in doing that and in terms of dealing with any customer complaints and people come back and say hey I didn’t actually have that much laugh in there or anything like that?  Well these are mostly large municipal contracts when you are doing these audits.
And so the – it’s a real interesting situation that you got going on in the recycling markets.
We have pushed and everybody has pushed single stream recycling throughout the United States.
What we haven’t pushed is educating the consumers as to what can go in there that can be recycled and what goes in that causes processing cost to go up.
So we have to do a better job of educating what – and we can do that in conjunction with our municipal customers.
As far as how are those conversations going? Look I – and I like in this to what happened in our company about 10 years ago when we put in a fuel surcharge right.
When we first put in the fuel surcharge on residential contracts there was a lot of pushback from municipal customers.
There were plenty of municipal customers that said we are not going to put a fuel surcharge in because we have never done it before and we said fine that’s fine we are not going to bid those residential contracts.
And over time as fuel became more important to everybody the market basically reset and now you don’t see contracts that are put out without a fuel surcharge.
I would expect that same thing to happen in recycling.
Look the recycling business has not being economically viable for anyone over the last few years we want to recycle as much as we can we want to help our customers recycle but we obviously can’t do that unless what we have is a long term sustainable business model and so we’re going to reset our business practices to do that you know I would be surprised to see the market do the same.
Okay last quick one for me I think David at the beginning of your comments you said something about your operating cost program accelerating in 2014 I was just hoping you might just elaborate on that what kind of cost savings you’re talking about and where you might find those cost savings?  We’re doing very well with our collection business that we’re focused on the operating side.
We’re making real headway especially in some of our certified locations.
We have touched about half of our areas to-date; we have got a couple of dozen sites that we have certified as meeting the goals.
We’re not ready yet until guidance next year to begin to talk about those dollars but we’re excited about the opportunity Corey and see real improvement on the operating side both efficiency and cost per unit.
What Jim and his team have done on the operating cost side is you know nothing short of remarkable I mean it really is a culture change in the way we treat both our efficiency and our service right? And it takes a long time to change that culture so we have been doing this for a while we’re going to continue to do it it's going to be the way we do business forever and so we have full expect to see that continue to accelerate in 2014.
Corey it's really is adding the technology that we put on trucks those on-board computers and added a real defined management process along with an accounting process to get the value out of the on-board computers and we have seen other industries do it we are leaving hours and we will get it done over the next couple of years.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Hoffman of Wunderlich.
So on capital spending can we talk about that from a philosophical standpoint because you clearly have this objecting of driving better returns and one of the three value drivers you got your hands around you’re driving better price the other is your cost side on margins but the third one is capital efficiency.
So can you frame where your head is with regards to maintenance capital spending how should we think about that as a percentage of the business.
If your company is growing sort of organically 3% to 4%?  First of all when you think about capital spending for the year year-to-date we’re about $476 million under the low end of our guidance for the year so we have got to spend 476 million for the fourth quarter we have averaged about 400 million the last two years and we have also accelerated just recently some truck and some AT [ph] purchases and heavy equipment purchases in Q4.
So we think we will be at or near the bottom end of that guidance range that we originally gave.
With that said I think you know we think that 9% to 10% of revenue will be appropriate level of capital spend for waste management and we think we will finish the year within that range basically the bottom-line here is that Jim and I have put some discipline into the process this year by trimming out some of the nice to have requests.
We probably Jim approved 90% rest of the request that had come across our desk.
In the second half Jim as we instituted the discipline in the first quarter.
Yeah so I think this is really cutting out those request that we kind of categorize is nice to have and are approving all of the must have requests and Mike we have also kind of redefined what we consider to be maintenance capital versus growth capital we used to think of a contract renewal where we had the business and the renewal required new trucks.
We used to think of that as being growth capital and we agree to find that that really isn't growth capital because it doesn’t add any top line dollars.
That’s maintenance capital and has to pull out of that area vice president’s leave [ph] plan.
Okay so if I’m hearing this correctly we should see growth capital one come down proportionally but also there is maybe a new level where maintenance is even managed tighter and so while 9 to 10 in the aggregate maintenance is not 9 to 10 it's going to be less than that.
Yes so I’m saying overall total capital is in the 10% range and I would say that on the growth capital side we need to look just got the appropriate returns.
We haven’t turned it down.
We have invested capital in our energy services business which we considered to be a nice growth business.
But I think you are right about maintenance capital where we are narrowing the definition of this and putting some discipline into the process.
And by the way Michael when you grow revenue through yield it takes absolutely zero capital.
Right exactly.
Okay.
So for you David on fees and surcharges how much money are you leaving on the table by having rolled back or waived fees and surcharges? And where are you in bringing new discipline around that?  Yes.
I mean it’s a significant dollar amount.
When we look at all of our charges if we were at a 100% compliant and obviously you never going to get to 100% compliant but if we were at a 100% compliant that would be roughly $360 million.
And so look we aren’t going to back down from our yield programs.
What we are trying to do is drive a lot of different parts of the yield program not just raising prices but driving other pieces that can drive yield and either the nail on their head.
One of our key focuses in 2014 will be driving environmental fee and fuel surcharge compliance up.
And that’s – I mean that’s an existing it’s already in the invoice so this isn’t I am still going to see improving the reported to us the reported yield should still continue to improve because you have got a discipline there but you also capture an incremental revenue dollar that was already in the invoice you have just rolled it back? Right is that the right way to think about?  Yes.
I mean what’s going on right now is that depending on the fee of the surcharge only 55% to 75% of the customers actually even have the surcharge.
And so just to give you an easy example on the fuel environmental surcharge in the past if a salesperson went out and waived the – either waived the fuel surcharge or the environmental surcharge for both of them if they waived it for a customer there was really no oversight about that.
What we have done now is we put the rules in place that if you waive them you’ve got to get a higher level of approval and you can imagine just that focus on fuel and environmental raises the compliance rates.
And so on new business we are going to make sure that we get it more often.
And on existing business we are going to go back and in every case where we can get it we are going to try to get it there.
And then obviously we have got other folks that aren’t at full fuel at environmental and that’s what you are talking about.
When they are not at full fuel at environmental we can raise up – we can raise them up to get them closer to or at the full fuel or environmental surcharge.
Okay.
So now I am hearing is two bites at that apple which is even more interesting.
So David you kindly offered in the second quarter that free cash flow will be flat year-over-year.
Having raised the guidance will we still be flat in ‘14 and it sounded like Jim you alluded to without saying it specifically in your opening comments that that would in fact be the case.
But I just want to get a feel for what a free cash – how we should think about ‘14’s free cash?  Yes I mean look Jim talked about it earlier that there is a lot of ins and outs in ‘14 with bonus depreciation with the cash going out from the compensation accruals that we are having this year the movement of working capital but what we have always said that this company is first and foremost a free cash flow generating machine.
Our guidance this year was $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion.
We have now raised that to $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion.
And Michael you and I have had this conversation many times.
I have always said this company had a very minimum every year it should generate $1.2 billion in free cash flow (indiscernible) and but the – with the focus that Jim and Jim have put on capital I am very confident that we can do that not jut in 2014 but going forward.
Okay.
And then question for you as there is lots of success landfill price seems to be more muted what can be different in ‘14 put out the depth in which you can – breadth of which you can raise landfill price?  Right.
I mean there are two things one is the contractual nature right I mean those are different types of contracts longer term contracts but two is just the visibility.
Just this year we have started to get reports on sort of the top 10 customers at every landfill we will get every quarter we will get what the price action has been with those top 10 top 20 type customers.
So look pricing is all about discipline and accountability and you can’t have accountability without visibility.
So you know it's the same approach we’ve taken whether it's pricing or cost we have said you know what we are going to get the visibility so that we can hold people accountable and once you hold people accountable it's amazing what this organization does.
I mean this is an execution organization and once we set the right direction they will execute and we’re holding our field managers accountable and they are holding both accountable down the line it's truly amazing what this organization can accomplish.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey of Goldman Sachs.
This is Usha Gunthapally on behalf of Alex how are you?  Good morning.
Doing well.
Any updated thoughts on the divestment pipeline for 2013 and any potential for 2014?  Can you repeat the question for me?  What is your divestment pipeline look like for 2013 and anything going at a 2014?  So this year we have divested somewhere in the neighborhood of a $100 million and that’s probably about where we typically are through the year so I wouldn’t expect it to differ dramatically in 2014.
And was there any noticeable change in construction related volumes in third quarter and any early read on the fourth quarter trends?  Yeah you know I think like we said earlier I think that we can certainly say that the volume trend for us is very stable you know when we look at the construction related volumes we have got very good volumes at our landfill which is very high margin.
You know we don’t have as a good volume and industrial line; it's what we’re talking about earlier.
We basically intentionally share some low margin industrial business and we’re not going out and chasing new industrial business at low margins.
You know we have got the highest new business rate that we have had in the industrial line probably since I’ve been here.
So we aren’t chasing collection [ph] volumes on the construction side.
The good news is and we’re not chasing those at low margins.
If we can get the right margins we will chase them but we’re not chasing them at low margins the good news is we’re still seeing that volume come into our landfills at very high margins.
So I would say that we have seen a nice uptick on the construction side for us it manifest itself more at the landfill you know last year we had some industrial volumes from Sandy that obviously won't repeat in the fourth quarter but other than that we see the volumes on the construction side being pretty robust.
That’s helpful and obviously you’re focused on pricing growth but in the medium term what’s the upside do you see from changing your recycling contract structure and surcharges?  Yeah you know that’s like I said there is no quick and easy fix on the recycling front.
You know that’s going to take some time you know we have got some plans in place to see improvement but frankly it's modest improvement in the near term.
You know in the medium term you know I would like to sort to see how the program plays out a little bit before we make a call and what we’re going to see in the medium term but you know look this is again this is no different than what we did with the fuel surcharge 10 years ago.
We sort of led the industry and it became an industry standard look if customers want to have recycling for the long term which is look that’s what all of our goal is to have recycling for the long term.
We all need to make it a more stable and profitable business and that’s what our program is designed to do.
Your next question comes from the line of Al Kaschalk of Wedbush Securities.
Just wanted a follow-up on this recycling concern or issue and David you touched a little bit upon on it but to me if you’re calling yourself the leader why wouldn’t we start to think about doing something more of the largest scale or more I say inflection point and how the business is being grown and that is have you looked at third party processing our outsourcing of this is this something you can get an economic value on doing some of the things you’re talking about doing and can you do it sooner versus later because back in the 90s or maybe in earlier than that recycling was a bus for lot of companies with commodity prices down it doesn’t seem to be generating the cost of capital returns that you would like? And pricing is something that you are never going to control so to me as I look at this business are we going to continue to have headwinds on this relative to your ability to drive returns in other areas?  Right.
Look short-term I think you are absolutely right.
We are looking at everything we can look at short-term to improve the business.
So for example we shut down two recycling facilities and we moved up volume to third-party processors.
So what you see in recycling is basically same thing you see in the solid waste which is innovating market by market analysis.
So in California where you are supported by fees to support recycling we have never really seen profitability win.
And so I think you are absolutely right Al in the short-term we can do some things to change that.
But in the long-term we need to make the entire business more profitable and more stable.
And I think the four actions we talked about will do just that.
How many facilities do you have that are recycling oriented?  Yes we have got about 120 total about 40ish 35 40 single street.
Okay.
I may have misplaced my second question here but…  So Al while you are looking for your second question I think it’s important to say that the recycling business is difficult as it been for us over the last two years.
Recycling it’s imperative that we would be in this business for our customer needs.
Customers require it we need to provide it.
We just have to improve the business at this point and that’s why we are taking – tackling these issues as David went through.
Yes but I think I agree with 100% with that but my concern is that at the end of the day it appears not only for you but for the industry that this is almost a lost leader in the short-term because you are of the education process and change in habits that needs to take place to drive better than corporate average return on the business but….
Yes but again Al I go back to the – I go back to the fuel surcharge on the residential contract that occurred probably 10 years ago.
At that point in time our residential business was low single-digit margins and now what you see is sort of mid-teen type margin.
So a lot of that is driven by the fact that what used to happen as you would enter into a long-term contract fuel would go up so your cost structure went up and before you knew it you are losing money on a residential contract that when you are originally fitted you made some money on and then if the municipality had a five-year renewal they would renew it for five years and you continue to lose money on it.
And so basically what we did is we said look we have got to find out what are the drivers of profitability in the residential line of business and how do we fix this from our point of view so that we don’t get stuck in this constant low single-digit margin business.
Recycling is in the exact same spot here.
Jim is absolutely right.
We have got to meet our customer demands and we fully expect to meet our customer demands but our customers need to realize that if they want us to meet their demands long-term we need to make it a more viable business and we need to do that by ensuring that when times are good everybody is happy right.
When times are good we are having a revenue split with our customer.
They are making money.
We are making money.
The problem is when commodity prices go down and processing costs go up our customers don’t lose money we lose money on the recycling side.
So we just need to make them understand that in order to make this business work long-term we have to make some structural changes.
And I would expect that over time you will see exactly that happened and what you will find is that we are certainly the leader in recycling.
I would like to be the leader in a business that has projectable solid returns.
I agree.
I think sometimes it’s also a constructive and healthy to fire clients so our customers.
My second question is that and I am trying to appreciate obviously the comments have been focused around pricing.
You can only continue to get pricing when you see the volume trend being positive as well so – or we had a spot here where you are going to be offsetting top line maybe a net positive because of the pricing but at some point your customer they start to push back on little bit more aggressive pricing in the marketplace.
Well look you know we certainly haven't seen that point but obviously pricing gets better as volumes get better.
You know we have got a good I would characterize the volume environment right now as very stable but it's not growing like it did in the ’05 to ’07 time frame.
I think if we continue to see housing starts above a 1 million you will also see new starts pick up because you have to build new businesses around those new subdivisions and you know we expect the volume trends to not get dramatically better but we certainly don’t expect them to get dramatically worse.
What we found is that since I’ve been CEO now for 10 years what we found is that our churn rate doesn’t change dramatically regardless of the level of pricing program that we have put in place and so you know I think there is still a lot of runway to go from a pricing point of view but you’re absolutely right I will much prefer to see a robust volume environment that would certainly help both from a leveraging volume point of view and from a price point of view.
One quick thing here when you think about volume one sure way for us to create shareholder value and really what is a mature industry here is to price increase.
Now if we’re going to make collection price increasing or increases sustainable we got to get price increases on the disposal side and I think Michael asked me question earlier about that but that is going to be important for us in 2014 is to make sure that we’re mirroring the success we’re having on a collection side of pricing with success on the disposal side and if we do and we think that that’s a long term sustainable model for growing shareholder value.
And finally the volume decline it was more noticeable or meaningful on the industrial side and going over the next near term should we still expect so we think about volumes comp in negative or are we back to flat line here?  On the adjusted and industrial line you mean?  Well I’m trying to appreciate.
I think heard volumes were while you reported down 0.6 and down 1.3 day adjusted.
I thought I heard industrial was where you were pushing some volumes away maybe that was a major component to the decline going forward do you still have a few quarters where you’re sort of pruning the volume based and therefore we should expect the negative volume comp near term?  I wouldn’t be surprised by that you know it's not just that we’re pruning unprofitable business we also are chasing the low margin roll off business you know like I said if you give me the option of getting negative on a work day adjusted basis the industrial volumes were negative 2.2%.
If we can get 5.5% yield and 8.4% core price I will take that trade off every day and so what’s really going on here is that we’re shedding some volumes intentionally but we’re also not just taking our chance and throwing them out on the street you know when as other folks throw their chance out on the street and their capacity gets maximized we’re then able to go in and get selective hauls at higher prices which you know for us is a spectacular trade-off.
Like we said this is the highest income from operations we’ve had in our industrial line since I’ve been here and that’s with the 2.2% volume decrease.
So the price volume trade-off for us is working very well and we don’t anticipate change in that.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Box of KeyBanc Capital.
Question on your SG&amp;A savings program now that you guys are about a year in and it looks like waste fundamentals are starting to turn.
Can you just maybe give us a sense of the type of leverage that you’re thinking we can get on SG&amp;A as volumes do come back and ultimately do you think that the 100 basis points of expansion from 2012 levels are still generally doable?  Yes so what I would say on SG&amp;A is that that’s you know the comps get more difficult but what we have said to the field for 2014 is that’s not only where we are going to be flat from ‘12 to ’13 in absolute dollars but we said we are going to be flat from ‘13 to ‘14.
And we are in the process of going through budget reviews right now.
It’s as you can imagine.
That’s a difficult message for not only to feel but for corporate to hear but we think that it’s achievable.
At some point obviously as your business grows you are not able to hold flat in absolute dollar terms but we do think over this three-year period we can hold flat on SG&amp;A and work our way through the increases the headwinds that we face each year from conversation.
By the way SG&amp;A as Jim exactly like what I said about capital before if you add yields you don’t have to add SG&amp;A.
If you add volume you do.
And that’s really helpful.
And I guess Jim just to be clear if you hold SG&amp;A flat does that include the acquisitions or is that excluding the acquisitions that you have done?  Well it’s a good question.
We have basically held it flat including the acquisitions this year which has been quite a task but we expect as we said at the beginning of the year we said we would hold flat.
We are on track at this point to hold flat.
We will run a little negative in the fourth quarter.
We have got about $26 million worth of comp related headwinds in Q4.
As I mentioned we had about $50 million in Q3 but we still think even with $26 million in comp related headwinds we will finish at or below last year’s levels.
Perfect that’s helpful.
And then just a question on the industrial roll-off side clearly you guys are taking more disciplined approach there can you just give us a sense of one where utilization is at for these assets? And two I mean if you – what is your view on the pricing market going forward does it ever improve to the point where it actually makes sense to put these assets back to work?  Yes.
So I can’t give you an exact utilization number but I will tell you we just went through our business reviews with our market areas two weeks ago.
And you told here anyone that says that they are missing volumes because they don’t have equipment right.
And so I would characterize the market as fairly tight from an equipment point of view and look that bodes well.
I think that bodes very well for us both from a volume and from a pricing point of views but like I said before we expect to see some stability there.
I would not be surprised if we see housing starts continue at over million starts that we see both price and volume on the industrial side but we will wait to see it before we declare victory.
Perfect thanks guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Thalhimer of BB&amp;T.
Hey good morning guys.
I would also say congratulations on a nice quarter.
Thank you Adam.
David as it relates to pricing I don’t hear you saying a lot hey we are going out there and we are pushing price I hear you are talking about a mix issue you are not going out and chasing low margin work I hear you are talking about surcharges but I mean the works I know you are actively out there pushing price?  Yes.
Well look our core price was the highest again that we have seen in a long time but I think it’s a great point.
Look well we have been our first cut of our pricing programs in sort of the 2004 to 2008 timeframe.
The primary weapon that we had were price increases.
We are a much more sophisticated pricing company at this point in time and we look at a number of different areas.
One of the areas where we end up giving away dollars is on new business pricing versus lost business pricing and then lost business versus new business right you lose business at a high margin and if you gain business at a low margin you are going to lose EBIT dollars.
And so we sort of changed the way that we look at pricing from quite frankly we don’t look at yield.
I mean obviously yield is an indicator but what we look at is total dollars dropped to the bottom line from all the actions we take on pricing whether it’s core price or which includes the fees and surcharges rollbacks new business pricing lost business pricing.
We take a look at all of it to understand the bottom line effect of our pricing program.
So getting the 2.3% yield and dropping to zero dollars to the bottom line is not what we are looking to do.
We are looking to see yield go up only as an indicator of dropping more dollars to the bottom line.
And so the short answer to your question is I think you are being very perceptive which is you know this is much more than just core price increases it's about pulling a lot of different levers in pricing and dropping dollars to the bottom line not just a reported number.
Okay and then I guess the question there really is can you get more aggressive as the volume recovery plays out?  I don’t think there is any doubt but again we can get more aggressive both on you know if you will net price increases but that means we can also get more aggressive on roll-backs that means we can also get more aggressive on new business pricing so there is a lot of ways you can drop dollars to the bottom line over and above just raising prices on current customers.
It's really important that we address it on the disposal side too.
So in order for us to continue down this path of success on collection pricing we have to be equally successful on the disposal side.
And Jim is that harder or how would you characterize that versus the collections side?  Yeah I think it is harder because typically you have fewer customers they are bigger customers so there is you know little more perceived risk in the managers mind there but you know so increasing a small you know restaurant has relatively low risk to an area of Vice President versus a big disposal customer.
So yeah it is probably more difficult but I think it's equally critical.
Okay and then just in terms of industry volumes what’s your sense of the having been in this industry for decade what is your sense of the environment out there? What you’re seeing how sustainable it is et cetera.
Yeah I would say that it's again I would say it's look we’re not seeing dramatic volume growth but what we’re seeing is good steady volume growth and you know we’re seeing you know where we’re seeing the best volume growth frankly is at our landfill which obviously is our highest margin business so that’s a good thing but you know again when you look at it from our point of view the industry volumes I would say right now are doing more to support our pricing programs than providing volume leverage obviously at negative 1.3% volume we’re not providing a lot of volume leverage but what it's doing is it's filling up capacity for the rest of the industry at lower margins and we’re able to that’s able to support our pricing program.
So you know we’re not going to go after I think the industry is actually growing volumes faster than we’re and by the way we’re perfectly comfortable with that because you know if the industry wants to chase there is always going to be someone that’s going to chase those low margin volumes and as long as they fill up their capacity chasing those low margin volumes we can take the higher margin volumes and when they collect it they are still going to show up with at our landfills.
Your final question comes from the line of Barbara Noverini of Morningstar.
So should we expect increase investment in your existing recycling plants in order to more efficiently handle contamination for example can increased automation make it (indiscernible) and processing cost at this stage and if not what more can you do to reduce operational cost as you work on educating your customers and improving those contract term?  Yeah you know they really isn't a lot that we can do from a technology point of view to make the processing easier and so you can’t really do it inside the plant you really have to do it outside the plant with the materials right and so you know we have got plenty of contracts that have maximum contamination levels call it at 10% and when recycling prices are high and everybody is making money you don’t go in and audit it and go back to your customer but once you start to realize that you’re getting 20% to 30% contamination and your processing cost goes up and the commodity prices go down and you start losing money that’s when you need to say look we need to go back in where we have these clauses in the contracts we need to go back in with the customers and say we need to do a better job of helping you get these contamination rates down but in the meantime we need to either charge a higher processing fee or reduce the rebate to cover our increased processing cost.
What’s involved in that auditing cost? As I assume that happens at the recycling plant as the waste arrives how do you go about providing that?  Yes you do it as the waste arrives and you go through sample loads.
Barbara I was also going to mention that there are specific things we can do in addition to the structural changes that Dave mentioned.
We are – this business has grown fairly dramatically in the number of recycling facilities over the last handful of years and it probably has exceeded the experienced base of managers that have manufacturing like experience we are moving people around they have had a great experience and they have managed cost to locations that have the largest need and we are having real success there.
You will see that little by little as we drive down that 10% increase we have seen in the operating cost per ton we will start cutting into that in Q4 and especially into next year.
Barbara I guess when I look at the recycling business what happened someone referred to it earlier on one of the prior questions what you have had in the past there are some dramatic price dips on the commodity.
So back in the 90s you had it and then back in the great recession you had it but those were always V-shaped drops in price right.
They dropped dramatically and fast but then they came back dramatically in past.
So you said okay well we can live with a little volatility now and then.
But what you have seen lately is a more sustained period of low commodity prices but so we looked at it with low commodity prices in 2009-2010 we said okay with low commodity prices let’s do something to fix that and we put in floors and different things like that not thinking that our processing cost could go up because of regulations imposed by China so the cost go up from the regulations in China and we address that.
And what I am saying is we can fix some of that short-term just like we fixed the pricing or the low commodity price short-term we can take some actions to fix it short-term but what we need to do is fix it long-term because if we don’t fix it long-term what you are going to see is that there is not going to be recycling facilities anymore because look we want to help our customers but we also want to do it by earning a decent return on the capital that we have got invested in this business.
So we need to make some systemic changes so that we can both continue to recycle but then also recycle even more for our customers.
Yes it’s great to see you digging into those issues.
And just on the Chinese restrictions have you seen any of that becoming less stringent I noticed there is supposed to be a temporary measure but do have any indication that it’s going to lift anytime soon?  Yes they recently extended it into 2014.
I would say that in certain locations you have seen a little bit of easing but certainly not enough to make a dramatic difference.
Got it.
Thanks for the additional details.
No problem.
Thank you.
And there are no further questions.
Thank you all for joining our call.
We get the honor of reporting the results to you but I can guarantee you that we don’t drive the results we have got 45 000 people at this company that are working hard every day to drive the results.
And in the third quarter they did another spectacular job so I wanted to say personally to them thank you very much.
And we will see everybody on the phone out on the road and we will see some of our 45 000 employees on to the road to give them a personal thanks.
So we will see you next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you for participating in today’s third quarter 2013 earnings release conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 PM Eastern Standard Time today through 5:00 PM Eastern Standard Time Tuesday November 12 2013.
The conference ID number for the replay is 66496035.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 66496035.
The number to dial for the replay is 1-800-585-8367 or 1-404-537-3406.
Good morning.
My name is Jenisha and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I’d like to welcome everyone to the Fourth Quarter and Year-end 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I will now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Ed Egl Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Mr.
Egl.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you Jenisha.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are David Steiner President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Fish Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Trevathan Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before we get started please note that we have filed a Form 8-K this morning that includes the earnings press release and is available on our website at www.wm.com.
The Form 8-K the press release and the schedules to the press release include important information.
During the call you will hear forward-looking statements which are based on current expectations projections or opinions about future periods.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of these risks and uncertainties are discussed in today’s press release and our filings with the SEC including our most recent Form 10-K.
David and Jim will discuss our results in the areas of yield and volume which unless stated otherwise are more specifically referring to internal revenue growth or RG from yield and volume.
Additionally any comparisons unless otherwise stated will be with the fourth quarter of 2012.
During the call David and Jim will discuss our earnings per diluted share which they may refer to as EPS or earnings per share on an as-adjusted basis.
David will also address operating EBITDA margin as defined in footnote B in today’s press release.
Our EPS as well as income from operations margin and operating EBITDA margin for our traditional solid waste business have been adjusted to exclude items that management believe do not reflect a fundamental business performance were not indicative of our results of operations.
These measures in addition to free cash flow are non-GAAP measures.
Please refer to the earnings press release footnote and schedules which can be found on the company’s website at www.wm.com for reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures and additional information about our use of non-GAAP measures.
This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning at approximately 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today until 5:00 p.m.
Eastern Time on March 4th.
To hear a replay of the call over the Internet access the Waste Management website at www.wm.com.
To hear a telephonic replay of the call dial 855-859-2056 and enter reservation code 31500809.
Time-sensitive information provided during today’s call which is occurring on February 18 2014 may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of Waste Management is prohibited.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Waste Management’s President and CEO David Steiner.
Thanks Ed and good morning from Houston.
Looking at 2013 we built strong momentum in the first three quarters of the year.
And that momentum continued into the fourth quarter with our traditional solid waste business growing margins by 150 basis points.
However quarterly EPS results particularly fourth quarter EPS results can be impacted by accruals sometimes positive and sometimes negative.
In the fourth quarter of 2013 we had $0.11 more expense from accruals than in 2012.
$0.02 of that $0.11 was offset by tax benefits so we had a net of $0.09 more from these type of accruals per share than we had in 2012.
This $0.09 consists of $0.06 from incentive compensation and $0.03 from risk management.
Without these accruals our earnings would have continued to show a strong year-over-year growth in the fourth quarter.
So our traditional solid waste business is strong and our earnings momentum continues.
Indeed we have seen that momentum extended to January as preliminary results show income from operations improving 12% and income from operations margin expanding about 110 basis points when compared to January of 2013.
Looking at the full-year we had a very successful 2013 as we met all the goals that we set out to accomplish.
Our plan to increase yield better managed costs and have disciplined capital spending paid off in 2013 and should lead us to continued success in 2014.
In 2013 we achieved full-year earnings per share of $2.15 and free cash flow of $1.32 billion all despite $0.10 of unanticipated headwinds from our recycling business.
In 2013 we expected yields to be between 1% and 1.5% and we exceeded that target.
For the full-year our collection and disposal yield was 2.1% with each quarter sequentially higher than the previous one culminating with the fourth quarter at the highest level for the year at 2.4%.
Each of our lines of business had positive yield for the full-year with the exception of landfill C&amp;D which was impacted by Superstorm Sandy last year core price increased to 3.8% in 2013 an improvement of 90 basis points and average landfill rate per unit for MSW ended the year with the highest rate that we've seen increasing about 3.5% compared to 2012.
This was a tremendous accomplishment by our team and they have plans in place to continue to have success in 2014.
We expect that internal revenue growth from yields should be approximately 2% for 2014.
As we said before we need to get about 2% yields to offset cost inflation and grow margins.
We did that in 2013 and we expect to do so again in 2014.
In the fourth quarter about a third of our volume decrease resulted from the year-over-year effect of volumes from Superstorm Sandy.
We also launched national account business that we were not willing to keep at low rates.
Looking at 2014 total volumes we expect internal revenue growth in volume for 2014 to be very similar to 2013 about 1% negative.
We'll see lower national account volumes in 2014 as we drive pricing at our low margin customers.
We need to be more aggressive on those specific national accounts where we're providing platinum service at bronze pricing.
The winter weather is definitely having a negative impact on volumes in the first quarter but we expect our normal seasonal upturn to occur as winter has receded.
So when we look at volumes we're more focused on getting the right volumes not the most volumes.
We're looking for the best mix of yield and volumes to drive income from operating margins and dollars.
And in our industry that mix always favors yields.
Jim will give you the numbers but despite negative volumes we increased income from operations dollars and margins in every collection line which demonstrates the importance of yield.
Turning to landfill volumes all categories of our landfill volumes were positive for the full year and we expect that to continue into 2014.
This strong demand should allow us to continue to see better pricing at our landfill.
So once again our traditional solid waste business performed very well in 2013 with strong margin improvement in all three of our collection and landfill lines of business.
Our income from operations margins grew 90 basis points and operating EBITDA margins grew by 80 basis points in the traditional solid waste business.
In 2014 we expect to grow earnings and margins in our traditional business through pricing cost controls and increased deployment of our productivity initiatives.
On the recycling front we had a $0.12 decline year-over-year in earnings per share compared to the $0.02 decline that we anticipated at the beginning of 2013.
As we outlined on our third quarter conference call we're taking steps to improve the profitability of our recycling business.
When contracts come up for renewal we plan to increase processing fees include tighter contamination limits with provisions that allow us to audit the inbound material add language that allows us to recover increased costs due to unforeseen events and increased consumer education through our Recycle Often Recycle Right program.
These initiatives are starting to work.
We've audited virtually all of our municipal contracts and have found numerous opportunities to charge customers for exceeding contractual contamination limits and we've seen revenue as a percentage of tons sold decrease for three consecutive months.
But even with these improvements we want to be cautious in predicting recycling results in 2014 and we're assuming that operational savings will be offset by slight commodity price decline such that we expect to have no year-over-year EPS impact from our recycling line of business.
Turning to our waste energy business in 2013 our operations were essentially flat when compared to 2012.
With long-term natural gas and electricity prices projecting to remain low the outlook for growth in our waste energy business is limited.
This as well as lower disposal tip fees and volumes resulting from contract transition are the primary reasons why we had to record a non-cash write-off of a significant portion of the goodwill of our waste energy business.
But the charges are the result of projected long-term cash flows not short-term issues.
So for 2014 we expect income from operations to be flat when compared to 2013 from our waste to energy operations.
Turning to free cash flow our disciplined approach to managing expenses and capital spending in 2013 allowed us to generate $1.32 billion of free cash flow an increase of almost 60% compared to 2012.
Excluding divestitures free cash flow grew 51% when compared to 2012 to $1.180 billion.
In the fourth quarter we prepaid $51 million of crude expenses to help offset some cash flow headwind in 2014.
Excluding that payment our 2013 free cash flow without divestitures would have been $1.24 billion well within our range of $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion.
In 2014 we expect that free cash flow will be very similar to 2013.
That's over $1.3 billion.
We should achieve this despite anticipated headwinds of approximately $125 million from the expiration of bonus depreciation and the payment of incentive compensation.
We should be able to overcome these headwinds through a combination of increased earnings improvement in working capital and capital spending discipline.
The strong free cash flow that we generated in 2013 allowed us to return over $900 million to our shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
This is the highest amount of cash returned since 2011.
For 2014 we anticipate continuing to grow the amount that we returned to shareholders.
So in summary when we look back at 2013 we built a strong foundation with our pricing and cost control program.
The momentum from these programs gives us the confidence that we can achieve our full year goal of adjusted EPS between $2.30 and $2.35 per fully diluted share and free cash flow of greater than $1.3 billion.
I'll now turn the call over to Jim to discuss our fourth quarter results and our 2014 outlook in more detail.
Thank you David.
I'm going to review the results of the fourth quarter and expectations for 2014.
I will start by discussing our SG&amp;A costs and cash flow performance then I'll expand on David's comments about the results of operations yield and volume in our various lines of business.
I'll conclude with a discussion of our financial metrics.
Results for SG&amp;A were better than we projected at the beginning of the year.
We anticipate costs being flat when compared to 2012 and for SG&amp;A costs as a percent of revenues improved 10 basis points.
I'm pleased with the overall results of SG&amp;A costs for the year improved $4 million to $1.47 billion and improved as a percent of revenue by 30 basis points to 10.5%.
For the fourth quarter SG&amp;A costs were $376 million an increase of $20 million.
As a percent of revenue SG&amp;A costs rose to 10.7%.
Both increases are a result of the accruals that David mentioned.
This will not be our 2014 run rate as we expect that SG&amp;A dollars will remain flat in 2014 and that SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue will improve from 2013.
We saw that in January that SG&amp;A improved $8 million as compared to January 2013.
Turning to cash flow for the full year we generated $1.32 billion of free cash flow an increase of almost $500 million when compared to 2012.
We accomplished this in part by growth our net cash provided by operating activities $160 million to $2.46 billion and by maintaining discipline on capital spending.
Our capital expenditures for the year were $1.27 billion.
If you exclude divestitures free cash flow for the year grew nearly $400 million to $1.18 billion.
Without the prepayment that David mentioned free cash flow would have been $1.24 billion.
In the fourth quarter we returned $410 million to our shareholders through a combination of $171 million for our dividends and $239 million in share repurchases.
We also invested $26 million in tuck-in acquisitions in the fourth quarter.
For the full year 2013 we returned $922 million to our shareholders consisting of $683 million in dividends and share repurchases of $239 million.
Our Board has indicated its intention to increase the dividend in 2014 by 2.7% to $1.50 per share on an annual basis which would result in a dividend yield of approximately 3.4%.
This is the 11th consecutive year of increasing the dividend.
For 2014 the anticipated annual dividends equate to $700 million to be returned to our shareholders.
We also have authorization from our Board of Directors to repurchase $600 million of our shares.
During 2014 we expect capital expenditures of approximately $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion which is between 8.3% and 9% of revenue and free cash flow in 2014 is expected to be in excess of $1.3 billion assuming a $100 million of divestitures and despite a $125 million of headwind that David mentioned.
For 2014 we expect to spend between $100 million and $250 million on solid waste tuck-in acquisitions.
I will now review internal revenue growth components and operating results.
In the waste industry if we lower price there is no new volume.
Putting garbage on sale does not incentivize customers to create more garbage.
If we were in an industry that could create incremental volume by lowering price like the consumer products industry we might look at yield and volume mix differently but in our industry we can't do that.
When we look at the trade-off between yield and volume; we look at them together to determine the best mix in order to maximize income from operations dollars and margins.
This strategy worked in the fourth quarter and for the full-year in every line of business where we increased income from operations dollars and margins despite negative volumes.
So for example in the fourth quarter commercial yield was 4.9% which is the highest yield since the second quarter of 2008 and volumes declined 5% with this yield and volume trade-off income from operations grew $21 million and margin grew 200 basis points.
For the full-year commercial yield grew 3.3% and volumes declined 3.4%.
But despite the volume loss income from operations grew $42 million and margin expanded 70 basis points.
For industrial fourth quarter yield were 4.3% and volumes declined 3.7% and still income from operations grew $50 million and margin expanded 230 basis points.
For the full-year industrial yield grew 4.5% and volumes declined 1.9%.
Despite the volume loss income from operations grew $48 million and margin expanded 140 basis points.
Similarly the residential line of business also grew despite contractual restrictions on raising prices.
In the fourth quarter yield for the residential line of business grew 1.7% and volumes declined 2.9% which resulted in income from operations growing $4 million and margin expanding 60 basis points.
For the full-year residential yield grew 1.8% and volumes declined 1.7% which resulted in income from operations increasing $14 million and margins expanding 40 basis points.
So as you can see the price and volume trade-off worked in all lines of our collection business the income from operations trend improved in the fourth quarter and we expect this trend to continue into 2014.
I will now review the landfill line of business for the fourth quarter where we saw the benefits of positive volume and positive yield.
Volumes were positive 5.6% after adjusting for Sandy volumes.
MSW yield was 1.7% with revenue per unit increasing 3.5%.
Sandy adjusted MSW volumes grew by 1.6% and C&amp;D volume rose 6.6%.
Combined special waste and revenue generating cover volumes were positive 3.9%.
Income from operations grew $25 million and margin grew 250 basis points.
Our overall internal volume growth was negative 2.2% in the quarter and negative 1.5% if you adjust for the Sandy storm volumes.
I will now discuss operating costs.
Operating costs increased by $43 million in the fourth quarter 64.8% of revenue which was flat with the fourth quarter of 2012.
For the full-year operating costs increased $233 million to 65.2% of revenues compared to 65.1% in 2012.
In both the fourth quarter and the full-year the majority of the increases were for costs associated with recently acquired businesses and labor increases.
Finally looking at our other financial metrics at the end of the fourth quarter our weighted average cost for debt was 4.97% and our debt to total capital ratio was 63%.
The increase in this ratio from 58.9% in the third quarter is primarily the result of the impairment charges.
Floating rate portion of our total debt portfolio was 15% at the end of the quarter.
Our current income tax rate was 34.6% for both fourth quarter and the full-year.
For 2014 we expect our tax rate to be approximately 35%.
One last item that I would like to address is our asset impairments and unusual items.
These non-cash charges are primarily related to goodwill associated with our waste energy business and other post-collection assets and related goodwill.
David mentioned the impairment of historical goodwill in our waste energy business.
The second category relates to asset impairments from our asset rationalization program.
As we’ve discussed we’ve been reviewing our post-collection assets to determine where we have cash flow negative or poor performing assets that do not fit into our strategic plan.
Impairment of assets in the fourth quarter resulted from our analysis and led to our decision to mothball certain post-collection facilities.
This concludes deferring active pursuit of expansion permits at four landfills.
In our review we determined that we’re able to move volumes to other waste management facilities without materially impacting customers or operations.
Of course the volumes available to the mothballed facilities increase in the future; we can re-activate expansion permitting efforts or operations at those facilities.
I would be remiss if I did not close by thanking all of our employees.
They made 2013 as successful as it was and we appreciate their hard work.
With that Jenisha let’s open the line for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Hamzah Mazari of Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Just a question on volume if we adjust for the low margin national account business that you’re walking away from and maybe some weather impact could you maybe comment on what the underlying volume growth is for 2014 that you’re guiding through and also maybe comment on how you balance volume loss with negative operating density? Yes when we look at 2014 it’s probably about 60% to 65% of the volume loss.
In 2014 it’s going to be from national accounts and as you know that’s generally very low margin business.
We just recently lost our largest national account which was low single-digit margin because we didn’t want to reduce or stay flat on the price.
We wanted to get a price increase because our margin was low single-digit and so we knew that was coming and it was the right business decision to make.
The other -- sot that’s going to account for roughly 50% or two-thirds of the volume loss in 2014 but the remainder -- we have the first quarter is going to have a tough Sandy comp still from Superstorm Sandy and obviously we had bad weather so you’ve got a little bit of an effect there.
And then we still expect that our pricing program is going to drive out a bit of our commercial volume.
So most of what you see in 2014 is culling out that low margin business then the year-over-year comps in the first quarter.
As far as the density goes -- look that's a fundamental premise of this business that if you can create route density obviously you can service the customer at a much lower cost.
But we can’t let that benefit that we get upset our pricing program right.
We got to be the pricing leader and if we aren’t then no one else is going to do it.
So we’re going to be the pricing leader.
We recognize that you get benefits from density.
We certainly are looking to grow our commercial volume but we will not grow our commercial volume at the -- we won't grow our commercial volume at the expense of price.
Very helpful.
And a question on SG&amp;A if we assume that bonuses continue into the future how should we think about SG&amp;A going forward? Is it fair to say that it should run up to 10.5% 11% on a normalized basis if we assume that management continues to get bonuses? Hamzah on SG&amp;A look I think I was pretty pleased with how we turned out in 2013.
We were actually specifically flat; we were actually down a little bit about $4 million.
And we’ve guided to flat in dollars in 2014 so when you think about it on a percentage basis look as top line increases we expect that percentage will start to get down to the 10% and potentially below 10% range.
To really be in the low nines I think you’re going to need to see a pretty robust rebound in the overall economy.
I mean that’s for us that has to be the big driver of top line growth -- the pricing strategy is clearly the right strategy as you heard from my numbers but in order to get revenue to really take off it’s got to be from robust economic growth we can't afford that price volume tradeoff in the wrong direction.
So when we think about SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue I would expect that the flat SG&amp;A will produce – obviously it's going to produce a lower percentage because of some increase in top line.
We're going to get down to – not going to get down to 9% until we really see the overall economy take off but I'll tell you there is still room for dollars on SG&amp;A both on the labor and the non-labor front.
We're not giving any guidance for 2015 but I would expect they'll hear the same message when we talk next year of being flat year-over-year.
Great.
Just last question I'll turn it over.
Any update on the divestitures.
It seems like you had some this quarter.
How should we think about where you are and what process? Thank you.
Yes.
When we look at the divestitures as we said we're looking – we're assuming $100 million of divestitures during the year.
We've got a few in the pipeline particularly in the non-core business.
We looked at our Chinese joint venture and we may look to monetize that this year.
And that $100 million I would tell you I think there is some upside to that but the bulk of that divestiture would be non-core solid waste.
We should have $50 million to $100 million of dispositions in the core solid waste business but the upside would be all those non-core asset sales.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Derek Sbrogna of Macquarie.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I'm just wondering if you could talk a little bit about – it's very encouraging to see the internal revenue growth stays strong in fourth quarter 2% and you're guiding flat for 2014.
Can you just talk about some of the things you're seeing and doing which gives you confidence that you'll be able to offset some of the CPI headwinds with some of the business that is not linked to CPI? It's a great question because when we look at yield frankly we don't look at the number the 2.4% in the quarter the 2% for 2014.
We don't particularly look at that yield number.
When we build our plan we build our plan to determine the amount of dollars that will drop to the bottom line from all of our pricing actions because pricing actions are not just core price increases but it's also rollbacks it's also the effect of lost business.
There's a lot of different effects that go into what drops to the bottom line from pricing.
So when we look at that when we look at dollars to the bottom line we think dollars to the bottom line will be very similar in 2014 to where they were in 2013.
Now you hit the nail right on the head.
In order to get that we're going to have to do more robust price increases to offset the CPI.
That CPI is what's going to drive the yield down toward the 2%.
So as we look at 2014 we don't think there will be a material difference in the amount of dollars driven to the bottom line but CPI will mute the numbers a little bit as far as yield goes.
Okay that's helpful.
And just one more.
It's good to see the CapEx guidance essentially in line with 2013 levels.
Is there anything we should be thinking about with regards to that number? I actually would have assumed it would have gone a little bit higher just kind of thinking that you would have seen cost inflation with regards to capital purchases and some of the initiatives you guys have put in place with the onboard computers and stuff like that? Yes when you look at CapEx what we're doing in 2014 is making sure that we put the right amount of capital into our core solid waste business.
We talked about it in the past.
We just have to make sure that we aren't under investing in the core business and we aren't and so primarily what you'll see in 2014 is that we are going to cut back on those types of investments that haven't been getting us the kind of returns that we want over the last few years primarily recycling.
And so we're not going to starve the core business the CapEx will be a little bit down because of what we call sort of growth capital and capital for those other types of businesses that generally have not been earning their return on capital for the last two years.
That's very helpful.
Thanks very much.
Certainly.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Fisher of Raymond James.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Just on the EPS growth I think the midpoint is around 8% and obviously I mentioned organic growth is around 1%.
Can you touch on some of the drivers there? Obviously you have a possibly lower share count acquisitions and David you mentioned the pricing actions but it seems like you got to have some good cost controls because gross margins would seem to have rise? Yes.
Look when we look at that 2014 just to try to sort of put it in context I think that there is some potential upside on yield I think there is some potential upside on free cash flow.
But as you well know Bill the last two years we've predicted our recycling operations to be last year $0.02 negative ended up $0.12 negative.
The year before we had a similar type of result.
And so we wanted to be very cautious on predicting – we said it before we can drive sort of 8% to 12% earnings growth through the price volume combination but in order to get up into that low mid teens we got to get help from waste to energy and from recycling.
We haven't done that in the last few years.
And so when we put together the plan we said let's assume that we're going to be very cautious on getting any benefit from it.
And frankly when you look at the beginning of the year with slower growth in China with the weather that's been impacting recycling volumes I think that's a good assumption.
So we wanted to be conservative because of those two big tailwinds or headwinds that we've had in the last couple of years.
Bill one of the reasons we talked about January which we've really never done before but one of the reasons we talked about January is because we didn't want folks to – two reasons.
One is we were encouraged by our own results but most importantly we didn't want folks to mistake kind of the accruals there at the end of the year for a change in trend.
And January clearly showed to us that the trend that we'd seen really for the first probably 10 months of the year is continuing into next year.
So when we think about 2014 for whatever its worth right I mean January is one month out of 12 but we felt good about what we saw.
I mean SG&amp;A costs being better by $8 million but we felt good with what we saw really overall I mean in line with a really tough weather month our core business was actually better than prior year.
So I think we've got a pretty good start going there and we'll see what February brings.
February has been a tough weather month as well.
Okay thanks.
And hoping to follow-up with that David you're keeping the yield north of 2% and I think last year you had some good success on the regulatory fee.
Are there any new incentives or strategies this year? I notice the commercial price is really strong for you in Q4.
Frankly 2014 is going to be sort of the same – it's a repeat of 2013.
It's going to be the same things that drive it.
Again we talked a little bit about the CPI headwind that we have to overcome but it's going to be the same types of things.
But Bill we'll never rule out doing something during the course of the year.
We didn't build in any plans to increase that but we'll see how the year plays out.
And look the reality is that as we've gone through the various cycles we have never seen a dramatic amount of pushback to the fees.
I think customers get the point that our cost structure is going up every year and so we have to recover that.
So could it happen in 2014? Absolutely.
Is getting our target dependent upon it? No.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Certainly.
Your next question comes from the line of Corey Greendale of First Analysis.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Corey.
I think David that you said something like half or two-thirds of the volume decline that you're projecting for '14 is because of national account.
I'm just trying to get a sense what do you think is underlying market growth – volume growth in the market in 2014? And then on top of that how much are you projecting the year of losing because of you being aggressive and being the price leader? Again I think 2014 from an overall volume perspective is going to be fairly similar to 2013.
Look we said it now for the last couple of years that what we need to see in order to really get robust volumes is we need to see an economy that's driven by housing starts by new business starts and by industrial production right.
We can't seen an economy where growth is driven by non-infrastructure government spend and by the service sector.
And so I think that's the big question for 2014.
Are we going to start to or are we going to continue to see the rebound in housing and are we going to start to see new business generation? Again when we plan for '14 we're planning like we aren't.
Like we aren't going to see a dramatic uptick and so from an overall volume point of view I think what you’ll see in 2014 will be similar to what you see in 2013 with collection volumes at least for us with collection volumes remaining negative and landfill volumes remaining positive.
Okay.
And I would like just to offset the expectations you’ve given all the things you’re seeing in Q1.
When do you expect that Q1 will be the worst year-over-year comp in volume and it improves as you get to the end of the year? Yes I would be surprised if Q1 is not the worst year-over-year.
Now the large national account that I talked about we lost about $90 million of national account business last year.
Our largest national account will lose in sort of mid-year this year.
So you’ll get a little bit of that affect in the back half but because of the weather affects and because of the sandy affects and because of the national accounts yes I would expect the first quarter to be toughest comp a quarter and for it to improve going forward.
Okay.
And by the effect it had on the competition of national accounts is that coming from your large national competitor or are you seeing new businesses like Oakleaf forming? I think it's a combination of both.
And from a -- it doesn’t matter where it's coming from because even if it's a broker it's coming from our large national competitors.
We don’t do business with brokers.
From our point of view we don’t see why we would strengthen a competitor by acting as a subcontractor for these new brokers in various markets.
We don’t understand why you would help a competitor.
So we don’t do business with the national brokers.
So even if the bid isn’t won by our large national competitors they are doing business with those brokers so they’re getting some of that business.
I think the answer would be; yes predominantly we’re losing at the large national players either directly or indirectly because they’re working for the brokers.
Okay.
And one quick one for Jim there’s a -- in the press release you talked about the $0.09 impact some of that is the bonus accruals but some of it is also risk management; can you just elaborate a little on that what is that a one-time adjustment of what your expectation is for risk management expenses going forward? All right.
So the risk management was a benefit actually prior year.
We typically expect with our safety improvements we’ve been seeing $0.01 to $0.02 per year.
This year we actually went the other way.
We had a couple of incidents so we ended up with $0.01 charge; last year was a $0.02 benefit on risk management adjustments.
So is it a one-timer? Certainly the trend would say that we wouldn’t see a repeat of that but it's hard to say it's a one timer.
Yes when you look at our safety numbers our safety numbers are actually improving which what it leaves you to believe that we would have gotten a positive accrual.
The problem is we had a couple or a few large incidents that we accrued for in the fourth quarter.
So again like Jim said you’d expect it to be positive but you just never know when these large incidents are going to happen.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Thalhimer of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning.
Thanks for the detail you provided in terms of the yield and volume in your various businesses.
I’m curious from your perspective is the yield volume trade off working better on the industrial line than the commercial line.
Because on the commercial line it looks like you’re getting 5% price but then giving up 5% volumes whereas on the industrial side you’re getting a lot of price but not giving up as much volumes? Yes when you look at a particular dollar’s point of view maybe you’d say the commercial is doing better.
But I think you’re right and it goes back to the earlier question about route density.
You don’t have the same issues with route density on the roll off side as you do with the commercial side.
But look in this business there is a few large chunks of business that you can go after very quickly.
You can get large residential contracts you can get large national accounts and you can get temporary roll off business.
You can sort of flip a switch and get any of those three.
The problem is you’re going to get those three at very low margins.
And we know that if we go out -- look if the large player goes out and grabs a bunch of volume of low margin what's the rest of the industry going to do? And so from our perspective we’ve got the right trade off.
What we’re expecting to see is our volumes recover with the economy not for all volumes to recover because we keep our price flat.
We’re going to continue to push our price and make sure that we get above that 2% so that we can expand margin.
Adam it's also worth mentioning that that some piece of our volume loss is not a function of price we don’t know exactly how much that is but some piece of it is related to -- for service and we are really focused at this point on customer service and improving the experience to the customer.
And that doesn’t -- getting that volume back has no negative impact on the price side as we would have if we were simply lowering price to get more volume but we’re keenly focused on that.
Got it.
Okay that’s very helpful.
And then just as a follow-up in terms of you guys are obviously being aggressive on pricing which is probably a good thing for the whole industry.
What exactly are you seeing in terms of how your competitors are responding to that? Yes I would say that we would love to see all of our competitor’s large and small leave at it and follow but we recognize that generally they aren’t going to leave.
So mostly what we’ve seen is what I would call rational behavior.
Like there always is there are pockets where you see some unusual actions generally those are in markets where you’ve seen a lot of stress put on volumes that we just recently saw a competitor lower their own price by $4 million in the North East on a disposal contract sort of paying against themselves.
We saw a competitor drop price by -- at the landfill by 20% to 25% in South Florida because both of those markets are fairly challenged.
But that’s the kind of behavior that for us is going to cost us a lot of volumes and again we can’t go out and do that type of behavior because look if you look -- I have always said we can lead the industry in one or two ways.
We can’t control what they do.
I mean we have absolutely no control over what anyone else in the industry does other than us.
But as the largest in the industry we can take one or two stances.
We can say we’re going to go after volume and give away price or we can say we’re going to go after price and give away volume.
And both of those can lead to what we call sort of a spiral affect either downward or upward.
We long ago look Jim said it; you can’t lower price and create demand.
Cherie Rice who used to be with our company used to say with shoes if you lower the price of shoes people buy more shoes.
When you lower the price of garbage people don’t create more garbage.
So when you’re working with a fixed pie you’re always going to be benefited by driving yield up because you can’t steal enough volume to make up for that yield.
And if we go and start stealing volume then it creates that domino effect of everybody is stealing everybody’s volume and that’s not a path that we’re willing to go down.
Got it.
Okay thanks for the color.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Al Kaschalk of Wedbush Securities.
Good morning David.
Yes.
Could you just clarify on the sandy headwind what that is for ’14 in terms of a comp headwind on a volume basis? Yes again that’s primarily in Q1.
If you look at it in Q4 you saw that it was 0.6%.
I would expect it to be a little bit more muted in the first quarter but probably somewhere between that sort of 0.3% to 0.6%.
Okay.
And then should we assume the balance is national accounts? Yes I mean so you’ve got national accounts and you’ve got the commercial business going down but all of that is offset by landfill volumes going up.
And again if that goes back to the trade upright if you tell me that my low margin national account business is going to go down and my landfill business is going to go up I’ll take that tradeoff six ways to Sunday.
Al again if you haven't heard it from the other guys what you probably have that the weather is throwing volumes out of whack.
Now we are pleased with the results as we said in January but we’ve had several operations especially in February where we’ve been shutdown in a big part in the South I mean you expect to be shutdown in the North and Mid West but when Atlanta shuts down for two days that generally is not expected going into the winter.
So I think there’s going to be an impact from the weather that that is yet to be determined.
Al we say it every year that you can’t make a call on full-year volumes based on the first quarter because of the seasonality.
So we have said that every year since I have been here to Jim’s point more or so this year than ever before because it has been ridiculously a brutal winter not just in the places where we always have a brutal winner but in places where you don't have brutal winners.
We had two days of school shutdowns in Houston Texas from the winter weather.
You saw what happened in Atlanta.
So what I would say Al is we have no idea what Q1 volumes are going to be.
We'd expect that to not be robust.
But again I don't think that's an indicator of what you're going to see for the full year.
We'll really know what full year volumes are going to do once we see the seasonal upturn in March April May.
Here's the broader question David and I appreciate the color from both you and Jim.
You're guiding us for 1% volume decline and better than 2% pricing.
If I look at the others in the industry all the other metrics – those metrics have flipped and I certainly appreciate you going out and focusing on price.
But can you explain why that is such a diverse message coming from you or why – I prefer you talk about your business but why you're seeing metrics that are different than the rest of the crew? Yes.
Look I think we've seen a lot of metrics that are different than competitors.
And again you got to take out the fourth quarter accruals.
But let's take a look at the full year and again when we talk about metrics what we're talking about is income dollars and margins.
So take a look at those metrics.
In every line of business we increase dollars we increase margins.
I can only speak for us but we did it in every line of business.
There's only one thing I can tell you we've seen what happened when we hit that 1% yield and 1.5% volume we saw it we saw it in 2012.
I guarantee you what's going to happen margins go down and income from operations dollars go down particularly when the volume that you're picking up is low margin business.
You just can't get enough yield in order to make up for – you can't get enough volume in order to make up for lower yield.
I think everybody in this industry would acknowledge that you need to get sort of 1.8% to 2% yield in order to expand margins.
So that's the question.
Do you want to expand income from operations and margins do you want to see them go backwards? You have to get the yield in order to do that.
Again we've seen many times what happens in our business when we give away price to get volume and it's not a healthy tradeoff when it comes to income from operations dollars and margins.
So it's fair to say that – and not that you want to quantify our guidance for '14 although it would be helpful how much in basis points do you expect EBITDA margin to improve in '14 relative to '13 on an apples-to-apples basis? Yes and again remember as we look at 2013 we had to sort of look at the core solid waste business because of the negative effects from recycling and waste to energy and that was 150 basis points.
Next year we should get detriments from those two businesses and we think if that plays out like that we should get 50 to 100 basis points of margin expansion.
Finally on this waste to energy business you take the impairment charge why be in that business? Why aren't we thinking about or maybe you are but what strategic nature does that provide to your portfolio? Yes.
The waste to energy business is really two different businesses right.
The waste to energy business is electricity which is what they sell out of the back end of the plan and it's basically – landfill is the front end of the plan right.
They take in waste and they charge a tip fee.
And so when we looked at it we say that the electricity certainly is not core to us and it's not something that we have deep expertise in.
Obviously our folks at Wheelabrator have expertise but we're not a power company so we don't have a deepen expertise as folks whose primary business is power.
And so you're absolutely right.
On the power side it's not strategic.
On the tip fee side it's absolutely strategic.
We always saw the Wheelabrator plants to bottom with landfill because they can keep taking in waste and they never fill up.
And so when we look at it from that point of view it's absolutely strategic.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
You have a question from the line of Michael Hoffman of Wunderlich.
Good morning gentlemen.
We don't have a question from the line of Michael Hoffman we will have many questions from the line of Michael Hoffman.
How are you doing David? Good Michael.
I'm doing great.
Well I got to have to live up to that now.
I only really had one written down but I guess I could make a bunch more up.
Don't feel like you have to live up.
Okay.
So if I can follow-on the last question the way that was answered would say a creative thought about maintaining that strategic exposure to the tip fee side but finding somebody else who could actually leverage the electricity side is not off the table.
Yes.
Look when we look at the electricity side we're always looking at what we can do to improve it.
In the past we've hedged it but yes I mean we're always looking for ways that we can take that – where we can take the volatility out of the earning stream.
Okay.
On the volume side where should – you give us some great tables so one of them is called operating revenues by lines of business and when we think about where things are gone because of like lost national account or Sandy can you point out – like is the lost national account coming out of the industrial line or is that coming out of commercial because there was a pretty steep decline in both? Yes.
A little bit of both.
It depends on what type of national account customer you have but it's going to come out of both.
I'd say roughly sort of 50-50 maybe a little bit more lean toward the permanent roll off side.
Okay.
So one other things that hasn't been discussed and I have to believe you're seeing this is that if you want a same-store basis in your commercial business which is – that small container business which is – if you're going to get what you pointed to earlier housing starts leads to new household formation which leads to new business formation.
This volume shows up there.
How would you characterize the volume in the container that's still there year end and year out? Yes.
Let's talk a little about the commercial business because I would tell you Michael when you looked at the lines of business what I would tell you is look if we're going to lose low margin temporary roll off business I'm not going to lose a heck of a lot of sleep over that right.
If we're going to lose low single digit national account business I'm not going to lose a lot of sleep over that.
Now don't get me wrong.
I would love to have that volume.
The problem is what does that do for the pricing dynamic? But when I'm losing those low margin lines of business I'm not particularly upset by it.
I would tell you that the commercial line of business is the one – if you could tell me which one line of business do we want to get focused on to stem the losses I would tell you it's the commercial line and it's because again going back to that earlier question.
The route density is – the benefit you get from route density is incredible and that's why as Jim said that's why we're sort of putting some more effort into customer retention without using products right.
But when you look at that small container business what you've seen over the last couple of years is sort of the amount of waste going into container very sort of mildly from negative 2% to positive 2%.
So we just haven't seen that real kick start that's going to dramatically change those commercial volumes.
Again I think in the natural economic cycle you'll see it right as new houses get built no one builds a new gas station in the middle of nowhere.
No one builds a new grocery store in the middle of nowhere but as new subdivisions start getting built then they got to build a gas station they got to build a drycleaner.
And so I think new business starts naturally trend behind housing starts.
And so if we continue to see housing starts positive into '14 I would hope that we start to see more new small business creation and if we can get that 2% to 3% GDP hopefully that – at a very minimum will at least stabilize those volumes.
So if I take what I'm hearing what you're saying is that there is a slightly positive trend line that's starting to replicate or match this improving housing start number but not enough yet to change the economic model but the direction – it's moving in the right direction? I think that's absolutely right.
Okay.
Changing gears capital spending would you break – the 1.2 to 1.3 or take the midpoint 1.25 how does that break out in your definition of growth versus maintenance? Michael we said last year that we had kind of redefined that.
There was some growth – had otherwise been considered capital previously that kind of we re-titled to maintenance capital.
If we had a contract that came up for re-bid previously that would have been considered growth capital as we went through the process of evaluating and that now is considered maintenance capital I mean even if the contract requires new vehicles.
So at this point the growth capital number has shrunk pretty considerable and what we’re left with is a maintenance capital number that’s probably in the $900 million to $1 billion range growth capital is the $200 million to $300 million.
Jim and I have taken a very discriminating view as David said when we look at -- when we make capital expense decisions we discriminate and we discriminate against those who provide low returns.
Michael when you look at what I traditionally call growth capital I’ll divide it into three categories.
You’ve got landfill gas to energy you’ve got alternative technologies and you’ve got recycling.
Those are sort of the three big buckets that we spent what we’ll call “growth capital on the last five years”.
In 2014 you’re not going to see a lot of spending in recycling or in alternative technologies.
You’re going to see more -- you’ll see we’re spending in landfill gas to energy but you’re not going to see it in those two areas and the obviously question is why? Well because we aren’t seeing the returns in those areas.
And so again as Jim said we certainly aren’t starving the business we think we’re at a good level of CapEx and we don’t expect to see that dramatically go up over the next few years.
Okay.
And speaking of recycling when you think about your efforts on going back to a customer like you did post the great recession in establishing pricing floors what's the reception been on we really need to talk about the quality you’re sending us and if you don’t send better quality we got to charge you more? Yes I think the reception has been I would say has been fine.
We haven't those are not hard conversations to have.
I think the more important thing Michael is what's going to happen going forward.
I mean I like in this to what we did in the early 2000’s with the fuel surcharge.
When we first started the fuel surcharge rather municipality said well we don’t have a fuel surcharge in our contract so we’re not going to allow you to pay it if you take an exception for the fuel surcharge and we said fine we’re not going to bid.
After a while that became an industry standard.
Other industry players said well gosh we’re getting killed by fuel too so we’re not going to bid if there’s not a fuel surcharge.
And now virtually all contracts have been with a fuel surcharge.
And so going forward the question is we’re not going to bid these contracts if they don’t have the types of provisions that we need in order to make money.
The question is is the industry going to do like they did with the fuel surcharge and say gosh we aren’t making any money either so we’re going to -- we’re not going to bid these contracts.
That’s going to be the big question going forward.
Is someone going to be optimistic enough that they’re going to bid contracts without the protections that they need in order to make sure they make a return on the investment or are they going to do like we do and say look we want to do -- we want to be the largest recycler in North America we don’t have any intention of not being.
But we also are not in this to lose money and we got to systemically change the way our contracts work going forward so that we can make sure we make an adequate return.
The contamination level only gets to a certain amount of dollars.
The rebate is a big part of it too.
So you have -- and then again educating the consumer.
So you have to go at it from all of these angles and so I would tell you the reception has been fine but just getting a good reception from municipalities and changing those contracts doesn’t get us anywhere near where we want to be from a return point of view.
The only way we get there is if we fix these contracts going forward.
Okay.
And then Jim Fish on cash flow from operations what's it going to -- is it just margin that gets you from 17.6% of revenues to 20% target or is there working capital as well? Yes so there’s probably four things and we saw them in January and I think we’ll see them for the rest of the year that’s the drive cash flow from operations and ultimately free cash flow.
Those four things well and I guess I’m speaking about free cash flow here because I’m including capital in there but cash flow from operations healed of course and cost control both SG&amp;A cost control and operating cost control and then when you take that to free cash flow CapEx.
And of course as you mentioned working capital and it's an item we haven't talked about on this call but it's been an area of focus for us particularly in the last two quarters of the year.
To give you a couple of numbers we improved our DSO by two days not happy with that -- happy with it it's in the right direction but not happy with the number.
We’ve got to improve DSO more than that and I think you’ll see that in 2014 our days to pay.
We really didn’t start working on that in earnest until August.
And from August through December we improved our days to pay by -- we increased that metric by three days.
And really there’s quite a bit more to come there in 2014 as those pay cycles we didn’t change payment terms until November December timeframe.
So I think you’ll start to see a benefit in working capital from continued improvement in DSO and then a full-year of improvement in days to pay.
Okay that’s great.
And then just couple of housekeeping items.
In your guidance what share count are you using to do the $2.30 to $2.35? What we would expect Michael is that we offset dilution that we bought back at least enough shares to offset dilution.
I think we were $470 million at the end of the year or so and we would buy back shares as David said in 2014 to offset dilution.
And your dilution runs about 2% to 3% of share count? Correct.
That’s about right.
Yes okay.
And then the tax rate in ’13 is supposed to be lumpy in the quarters how do we think about that in ’14 because it tends to have a pretty -- since you’ve given an EPS number it tends to have pretty dramatic impact on EPS by quarters.
Yes we can get you the quarterly number that the annual number is basically flat at about 35%.
Right okay great.
I hope I didn’t disappoint you.
I could come up with some more if you want but I’m good.
That was excellent.
Thank you guys.
Thanks Michael.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey of Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
David can you hear me? Hi Alex.
Yes.
Excellent.
So just one question and a follow-on to it; can you talk about how you expect your yield to perform at the landfills relative to the collection business in 2014 and just from a volume perspective could we expect that volumes at the landfill at some point are going to begin to narrow with what you’re seeing on the collection side or is there is a reason to think you can continue to outperform on the landfill side volume wise relative to collection? Yes we certainly expect volumes at the landfill to be positive in 2014.
And like we said particularly in the landfill line of business where you’re seeing positive volumes that should lead to better yield.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Barbara Noverini of Morningstar.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Jim you referred to asset rationalization in your closed collection facilities and specifically mentioned a few cash flow negative landfills.
We’ve talked about this in the past but how much of this that was just reported was related to recycling assets and further is it fair to say that asset rationalization is continuing in your recycling portfolio as you work through these contracts nor would you say you've got a pretty good handle on projected future cash flows of your portfolio at present? So a bigger portion of that asset impairment -- the biggest portion of it was of course the landfills a piece of it was recycling facilities.
We’re not aware of any additional impairment’s at this point but we always review our assets and we’re appropriate we would close the facilities.
We felt like this year we’ve gone through a pretty expensive analysis and by the time we got to the fourth quarter we’re prepared to make a call on those.
Okay great.
And just quickly on the large national accounts businesses that you were talking about earlier how much of that is related to disappointment on your end from what they’re demanding on the solid waste front versus the recycling front.
Have you seen that demand -- from those customers in recycling is above what you’re prepared to give at this point? No when you look at the national accounts most of the national accounts do want recycling and frankly that’s one of the positives that we have that we have the largest network of recycling facilities.
So the more recycling they want the better chance we have at winning the bids.
Basically what it's come down to is that our primary competition as we talked about is other large national players and then the brokers.
And I think the brokers are probably – they're both very competitive but the broker's model which by the way we have a brokerage model too the broker's model is go out and try to get very low margin work done by subcontractors and as long as there's folks willing to do that they're going to be able to continue to reduce price.
From our point of view we always say we don't need to practice our business.
We've got plenty of ways to practice.
We don't need to go out and do it for low margins.
And so if other folks want to fill up their capacity with that low margin business that's quite all right.
When the economy comes back and we start seeing better volume we'll have that access capacity that we can stretch and to get new volumes at higher margin and obviously those competitors won't.
Okay.
Good.
That's it for me.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Your final question comes from the line of Jeff Osborne of Stifel.
Great.
Good morning.
Just a couple quick questions from my end.
I was wondering David on the national accounts side you mentioned there was a 90 million headwind in 2013.
And the largest customer I think you articulated would come off-line in mid this year.
Would you expect that number to be higher than 90 million in terms of lost revenue in 2014? You mean as far as new loss revenue or the [Technical Difficulty] cross over geographic market areas they become a national account.
So a lot of those national accounts are regional.
And the bulk of our national account business is great business because we can create that route density.
And so I wouldn't expect that we're going to lose another $90 million of national accounts in 2014 and we'll continue to add sort of the smaller regional national accounts.
So overall the net effect will be that we will lose some national accounts but we expect that our national accounts EBIT dollars will actually be flat to up.
Understand.
In that same vein can you just touch on the commercial side of the business in terms of service frequency increases excluding the national account lost sales in 2013? What kind of trajectory or the rhythm was through the year and maybe touch on January? Are you seeing greater frequency increases excluding the lost customers? Yes we haven't seen the January numbers but again what we saw in 2013 was sort of a fairly narrow band of positive negative sort of down 2% up 2%.
We had a couple of numbers that were up 2% or 3% or down 2% or 3% but basically what I would say is that the overall trend in 2013 was slightly positive and we would expect that trend to continue in fact probably get a little bit better in 2014.
Excellent.
And my last question is just can you touch on the couple hundred million in growth CapEx that you mentioned before? I think it was to Michael's question.
In particular I was looking for where you are in terms of your natural gas fleet.
Did you accelerate that last year with the accelerated depreciation? And then would you look to decelerate the amount of new nat-gas vehicles in 2014 added or just an update as to where that is exiting the year and what the plans are for this year would be helpful? Yes Jeff Jim Trevathan here.
We still plan to buy about 90% of our new trucks will be natural gas trucks.
We're installing about 15 new locations across the country where we've put the infrastructure in and we'll continue that.
The payback was excellent in 2013 and we expect the very same in '14.
I don't see any change in that strategy at all around implementing natural gas fleet but our customers like it.
It's obviously cleaner air.
Both residential and commercial customers appreciate it and we'll continue that focus.
And just to put it in perspective Jim in terms of the percentage of the fleet today are you in the mid-teens or where about are we? 16%.
16% okay thank you very much.
16% is the total fleet.
We put about 900 trucks on the road that were natural gas in '13.
We moved that percentage up a couple of points.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
David Steiner for closing remarks.
Thank you.
As we said from a business point of view 2014 is up to a great start.
But from a personal point of view 2014 is not such a great start.
We recently lost two of our corporate family to cancer.
I wanted to say that our sympathies go out to the families of Jim Perry and Scott Stadelman.
I can promise you that they may be gone but they’re not forgotten.
Thank you operator.
Thank you for participating in today’s fourth quarter and year-end 2013 earnings release conference call.
Replay dial in number 800-859-2056.
International local dial in number 404-537-3406.
Conference code 31500809.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Jenisha and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Waste Management first quarter 2014 earnings release conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speaker’s remarks there will be a question and answer session.
(Operator instructions) I will now turn the call over to Ed Egl Director Investor Relations.
Okay Mr.
Ed Egl you may begin your conference.
Thank you Jenisha.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us to our first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are David Steiner President and Chief Executive Officer Jim Fish Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Trevathan Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before we get started please note that we have filed a Form 8-K this morning that includes the earnings press release and is available on our website at www.wm.com.
The Form 8-K the press release and the schedules to the press release include important information.
During the call you will hear forward-looking statements which are based on current expectations projections or opinions about future periods.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of these risks and uncertainties are discussed in today’s press release and our filings with the SEC including our most recent Form 10-K.
David and Jim will discuss our results in the areas of yield and volume which unless otherwise stated are more specifically references to Internal Revenue Growth or IRG from yield or volume.
Additionally any comparisons unless otherwise stated will be with the first quarter of 2013.
During the call David and Jim will discuss our earnings per diluted share which they may refer to as EPS or Earnings Per Share.
David and Jim will also address operating EBITDA and operating EBITDA margin as defined in the schedule for today’s press release.
For purposes in the past and into the prior period [ph] our first quarter 2013 EPS income from operations margin operating EBITDA and operating EBITDA margin have been adjusted to exclude items that management believes did not reflect our fundamental business performance were not indicative of our results of operations.
These measures in addition to free cash flow are non-GAAP measures.
Please refer to the earnings press release foot note and schedules which can be found on the company’s website at www.wm.com for reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures and additional information about our use of non-GAAP measures.
This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning at approximately 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today until 5:00 p.m.
Eastern Time on May 8.
To hear a replay of the call over the Internet access the Waste Management website at www.wm.com.
To hear a telephonic replay of the call dial 855-859-2056 and enter reservation code 10543459.
Time-sensitive information provided during today’s call which is occurring on April 24 2014 may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of Waste Management is prohibited.
Now I will turn the call over to Waste Management’s President and CEO David Steiner.
Thanks Ed and good morning from Houston.
Our fourth quarter conference call we said the January results indicated the strength of our business.
That strength continued in February and March and lead to a strong start into the year.
The momentum in our yield and cost control programs continued throughout Q1.
Our field operations teams also did a great job of managing the effects of the severe weather that probated the quarter.
As a result we are in $0.49 per share an increase of more than 22% when compared to the first quarter of 2013.
We saw good improvement in all areas income from operations operating EBITDA margin and free cash flow.
We’re encouraged by the strong start and we expect the momentum to continue as we are heading in our seasonal upturn.
Our yield programs continue to drive our margin expansion.
For the first quarter our collection and disposal yield was 2.6% which is the seventh consecutive quarter of sequential yield improvement.
The effect of low inflation rates on our CPI based contract are certainly a headwind but we overcame that headwind to drive yield to its highest level in three years.
Core price increased to 4.2% a year-over-year improvement of 100 basis points and the highest level we’ve ever seen.
Each of our lines of business had positive yield except C&amp;D which was impacted by higher price Super Storm Sandy time we received in 2013.
Average rates per unit for MSW commercial and industrial are also the highest rates that we’ve ever seen.
When compared to the first quarter of 2013 average rates increased 5.6% in the industrial line 4.9% in the commercial line and 4% in our MSW line.
This is a tremendous accomplishment by our team.
As we’ve repeatedly stated we need yield at about 2% to see margin expansion.
And we will execute our yield program to continue to drive that expansion.
Clearly this has some effect on volumes.
But the tradeoff remains very positive.
Turning to volumes in the first quarter volumes were negative 1.8% which is an improvement of 40 basis points from the fourth quarter.
The losses in our commercial volumes improved to 30 basis points from the fourth quarter.
But I wouldn’t yet call that improvement of trend.
Roll off volumes were down about 200 basis points from the fourth quarter but we would expect those losses to moderate as we enter our seasonal upturn.
Our landfill volumes particularly special waste were strong in the first quarter.
However they were offset by declines in the collection lines of business.
As we’ve said in the past we’re not focused on getting the most volumes we’re focused on getting the best volumes.
We’re looking for the best mix of yield and volume to drive income from operations dollars and margin.
Jim will give more details but despite negative volumes overall income from operations grew more than 13% and our income from operations margin grew 140 basis points.
Operating EBITDA increased about 7% and operating EBITDA margins increased 100 basis points.
Our traditional solid waste business has performed very well in the first quarter.
We saw a strong income from operations and margin improvement in our commercial industrial landfill and transportation lines of business.
And our overall traditional solid waste income from operations margin grew 50 basis points.
Our recycling operations drove a little less than one set decline in our earnings per share compared to the first quarter of 2013.
This decline is due to the 1.8% drop in average commodity prices for the quarter and weather related operating challenges.
We’ve seen our operating cost improved as we tighten our enforcement on contaminated loads and modify the methods for calculating rebates to customers.
We’re also engaged in broad based efforts with our recycling customers consumer brand owners and others to educate them of the evolving recycling in commodities markets and how to reduce contamination.
Overall we still expect to achieve our recycling guidance of flat earnings per share when compared to 2013.
Turning to our waste energy business in the first quarter operating results were essentially flat when compared to 2013.
But overall results benefited from a spike [ph] in electricity prices in the quarter driven by the cold and the normal winter [ph].
In April we’re seeing electricity prices moderate as warmer weather has arrived on the East Coast.
So we expect earnings from our waste energy operations to be similar to 2013 in the remaining three quarters.
Looking at free cash flow the first quarter of 2014 is the highest free cash flow quarter since 2008 at $484 million driven by our strong results in working capital management supplemented by $166 million of divestitures primarily our waste energy joint venture in China.
So 2014 is up to a strong start.
And we have the momentum to achieve our four-year goals of adjusted earnings per share between $2.30 and $2.35 per fully diluted share.
With the strong first quarter free cash flow we now expect 40 to free cash flow [ph] between $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion.
As we move to the second quarter and see the seasonal upturn we will likely refine the various elements of our guidance in connection with our second quarter results.
But for now we’ve demonstrated that our field and corporate managers can execute our pricing and cost control program.
And through their efforts we’re confident we can achieve our goal.
I’ll now turn the call over to Jim to discuss our first quarter results in more detail.
Thank you David.
As David mentioned we had a strong performance in all aspects of our income statement.
Our revenue grew 1.8% in the first quarter to $3.4 billion.
Strong yield and acquisition revenue were the main drivers with volume declines and a negative foreign currency translation yielding revenue growth.
The effects impact on revenue was approximately $17 million.
We continue to see improvement in all our cost lines.
With respect to operating cost operating cost as a percent of revenue improved 50 basis points to 65.7% an increase $23 million in the first quarter both [ph] associated with recently acquired businesses increased almost $30 million and were partially offset by improvements in disposal on labor cost [ph].
SG&amp;A cost improved $15 million to $375 million and improved as the percent of revenue by 70 basis points to 11%.
With the strong results in the first quarter we expect us to achieve our full year SG&amp;A goals.
Turning to cash flow for the first quarter we generated $484 million of free cash flow an increase of $136 million when compared to 2013.
We accomplished this in part by growing our net cash provided by operating activities $7 million to $584 million improving working capital and by maintaining discipline on capital spending.
We grew free cash flow despite over $100 million of headwinds from the payment of our annual incentive compensation and the maturity of interest rate swaps related to a plan senior note issuance.
Our capital expenditures for the quarter were $266 million the same amount that we spend in the first quarter of 2013.
We also had some divestitures in the quarter most notably we monetized our investment in China for about $155 million.
Even if you exclude the divestiture proceeds our free cash flow up $318 million was still the highest free cash flow since 2008.
Looking at internal revenue growth we continue to execute on the tradeoff between yield and volume to determine the best mix in order to maximize income from operations dollars and the margins.
Our strategy worked in the first quarter just as it did for the full year 2013.
For the total company in the first quarter our collection and disposal yield was 2.6% with volumes declining 1.8%.
This lead to income from operations growing $55 million margin growing 140 basis points operating EBITDA growing $49 million and operating EBITDA margin growing 100 basis points.
Looking at the commercial and industrial lines of business the yield and volume tradeoff worked well.
In both cases strong yield results offset volume declines resulting in commercial income from operations growing more than $6 million and margin growing 50 basis points.
In industrial income from operations grew almost $7 million and margin expanded 110 basis points.
This is the seventh consecutive quarter of year-over-year margin expansion in industrial.
So yield above 2% in those lines of business drove margin expansion despite negative volumes.
This did not hold true in our residential line where yield was 1.1% driven by low CPI.
In addition we lost a few contracts that we saw – where we saw competition significantly lower price the levels that were below our required return on capital.
We expect to see margins improved as our cost control programs drive down operating costs and as we add new residential contracts at acceptable returns.
In the landfill line of business for the first quarter we saw the benefits of positive volume and positive yield.
Total landfill volumes increased 3.8% combined special waste and revenue generating cover volumes were positive [ph] 7.9%.
And MSW volumes grew by 0.9%.
C&amp;D volume declines 2.2% primarily due to a tough Sandy comparison.
This lead to income from operations growing $11 million which is the fourth consecutive quarter of growth and margins grew 130 basis points.
Finally looking at our other financial metrics at the end of the first quarter our weighted average cost to debt was 4.9% and our debt to total capital ratio was 62.8%.
So pulling away portion of [ph] our total debt portfolio was 18% at the end of the quarter.
Our income tax rate in the first quarter was 29.6% due to a non-cash adjustment to our differed taxes from state tax law changes.
This benefited us by a positive $0.04 per diluted share in the first quarter.
Our year-over-year benefit was a positive $0.02 per share.
For the next three quarters we expect our tax rate to be approximately 35%.
Our first quarter results have started 2014 on the right path.
We are encouraged by the results which we could not been achieved without the hard work of our employees.
I know they are focused on making 2014 a successful year and I thank them for that.
And with that Jenisha let’s open the line for questions.
(Operator instructions) We’ll pause for just a moment to compile the Q&amp;A roaster.
Your first question comes from the line of Hamzah Mazari of Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Just – hey good morning.
Just a question on the volume side do you have a sense of how much of your volume loss is self-inflicted in in terms of walking away from low margin business versus other competitors in the market as being more aggressive? And then separately on the volume side is the – is the spring slow down within housing going to push out some of the commercial new business formation in your business? What’s your view on those two topics within volume? Yes Hamzah on the first one I don’t think the slowdown in housing will push it out.
As you know we’ve been waiting for that commercial volume to see significant improvement.
I don’t think that that one quarter slowing down when the housing starts our re-sales will have an effect on that.
On the other one you’ll have to look at the various lines of business right? I don’t think there’s any doubt that in the residential line of business and in the industrial line of business we walk away from low margin business.
There is absolutely no doubt about that.
On the commercial side there is just not a lot of growth.
And our strategy is that we aren’t going to chase volumes because if we chase volumes and because there’s not a lot of growth we’re going to have to take those volumes from someone else.
And that’s just not something we’re willing to do.
We’re not willing to go out and grab volumes at a low price because if we do that that’s what starts the downward spiral in price.
And so when we see those volumes pickup we fully expect to get our fair share of that.
So I would tell you that that we walk away from residential and industrial business that’s low margin.
When it’s low margin it’s generally low return on capital.
And so we’re making a good business decision to walk away from it.
On the commercial side I wouldn’t say that we are intentionally walking away from business I would say that we’re more focused on retaining the business that we have than going out and trying to get new volumes with low price.
But once we see the rising tide when we see those commercial volumes pickup we fully expect to get our fair share.
And then just on pricing could you – could you give us your thought process in putting up the pricing bonus structure? You put a pricing gate [ph] in place a couple years ago and then it went away.
How prominent is this pricing gate [ph] that you’ve set up? And should we expect – is this a signal to the market that you’re more disciplined and you were not disciplined previously? How do you – how should we think about these pricing gates [ph] coming in sporadically and then maybe going out at certain times? Yes I think – look Hamzah I think everybody knows that the strategy at Waste Management is that you’re always better off getting yield over volumes right? And so we’re always going to be a yield-focused company.
Now you can get yield in a lot of ways.
You can have the gate [ph] which that you mentioned which is sort of a hammer if you will you can have – look we meet with our folks every month to see how they’re doing and you’ve got that as sort of an honor on it [ph].
And then you can also put in place an incentive program.
You know look when we saw – when we saw the yield go down dramatically in 2012 we knew we had to do something dramatic.
And so we weren’t going to just rely on meeting with folks every month and saying obviously your job is expected to be driving yield we wanted to get a little bit more incentive.
So we decided to make it a positive incentive.
And as you can see what we’ve – look we’ve quadrupled yield since we put that in place.
If that’s what we have to do to get it done it is a great tradeoff for all our shareholders I can guarantee it.
So there will always be something that we will do with respect to yield.
Either we’ll put in place a gate we’ll put in place an incentive program or we’ll make sure that we have our focus on it so that our field mangers focuses on it.
We will always do that.
And so we’re going to use those three – combination of those three things to continue to drive yield.
Okay.
And just lastly I’ll turn it over maybe for Jim.
Could you help us understand the – why you are not raising earnings guidance but free cash flow guidance is going up? Is that all asset divestitures or maybe give us a little more color on the delta between that? Yes.
So couple of questions there Hamzah.
And I think the reason we’re not raising free cash flow guidance is because while we were pleased with the quarter this is the first quarter.
And so we’ve said that we’ll refine our guidance in the second quarter.
The – when you think about free cash flow I think that was question was kind of the components of free cash flow and I think that’s kind of what you’re getting at is which pieces of it are sustainable and which are not.
Right.
You know if you think about free cash flow and break it down to its component parts CapEx was essentially flat it was based – exactly flat actually.
And then EBITDA was up $49 million driven by a nice quarter for weedy [ph] driven by some core business improvements and driven by SG&amp;A cost controls.
And then the other piece the other big mover there outside of divestitures which was almost exclusively the Chinese divestiture the other big mover was cash flow from operations.
And we had about $100 million – $106 million to be exact of headwind there from the termination of the – or from the core starting swap [ph] and then from the bonus payout.
And so working in the right direction there was DSO and DPO [ph] which were better by a day and five days respectively so year-over-year.
And I think we have some room to improve there.
So I would argue that that’s – the quality here is pretty strong.
Most of what I’ve talked about I would argue is sustainable with the obvious exception of the onetime asset divestiture.
Hey Hamzah I think the important thing is that we did $318 million without divestitures which is the highest we’ve had since 2008 and that’s with $100 million of headwind.
And the beauty of it is those $100 million of headwinds or first quarter headwinds they don’t recur in the second and third and fourth quarter.
So we had a great first quarter despite the headwinds.
We won’t have those kind of headwinds in the – to three quarters [ph].
So obviously we’re very optimistic about free cash flow.
But as Jim said we’ve always said whether it’s a good winter weather or a bad winter weather it is hard to judge a full year by the first three months of the year.
So we like to see the seasonal upturn before we make a call on how the full year is going to play out.
And so we thought that’s what the – we thought that’s what would be prudent to do right here which is to say let’s see what the seasonal upturn bring in the second quarter and we’ll refine the guidance as appropriate.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Box of KeyBanc Capital Market.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Question for you guys on landfill pricing and volume dynamics.
Before you release on an active landfill base is it looks like volumes were up by about 3.4%.
One can you guys give us a sense on yield for those landfills? And then two you had a peer that reported landfill volumes up I believe it was 90% earlier this week can you just help me bridge the gap there? I’m curious if that’s a function of just geography or maybe if you’re seeing a little bit less volume here because of your pricing strategy as well? Yes look the landfill volume it’s driven those big numbers but when it happens for us I got – I won’t speak to other companies.
But when we get those type of big numbers it’s generally special waste jobs.
And you got two things going on there you got year-over-year cost right? If we had a great special waste quarter last year it’s harder comp.
And then you got the fact that those special waste jobs are jobs that they vary from season to season.
So what I would tell you is that we are very encouraged by the landfill volumes we still see a very strong pipeline.
So we’d expect them to be positive for the full year.
From a pricing perspective as we said look price doesn’t particularly matter as much as special waste and then C&amp;D as it does and MSW.
So when we look at the – at the yield components we look at MSW when we look at the average unit price so that – in the MSW line we grew at 4%.
So we’re well on our way to getting what we’ve said is sort of that 5% to 7% price increase in the landfill at 4% we’re well on our way to getting there.
Perfect that’s helpful.
Thank you.
And David I want to practice [ph] this question by just saying I think that pricing discipline out of you guys is critical.
But I’m just curious when you started your pricing strategy about a year ago were you expecting your peers to buy into raising rates? And then maybe what’s your view on sustaining the strategy if the waste recovery continues to be relatively slow is this something that you could stick with to this magnitude for another year or two? Yes look I can’t – I can’t speak to what we – what we expect or we don’t expect that of our competitors.
All I could tell you is what we’re going to do.
And it goes back to what I said earlier look when you got sort of stick pie [ph] there’s only one way you can get volumes.
And that is to go out and steal them from someone else.
And we’ve seen what happens when we do that.
Look we’ve done that in the past where we steal volumes from someone else what do they do? They steal them from us.
And before you know it you have a downward ice spiral.
And you all have heard me say it a million times it’s a two to one or three to one tradeoff.
You can get 1% of price and lose 2% to 3% of your volume and you’re still ahead of the game.
And so you just can’t chase that downward spiral because you can never get enough volumes to make up for the drop in price.
So you’re not going to see that strategy change for us.
Now look will we rather have more volumes? Absolutely but what I’m saying is when we get more volumes it’s not going to be because we’re going out and steal them at a lower price it’s going to be because that everyone is getting more volumes and we fully expect to get our fair share of the increase in volume.
And so what we’ve seen is that the – we think the economy has moderated.
We don’t expect to see the volumes improved dramatically but we don’t expect to see them decreased dramatically either.
And obviously we’re going to see improvement during the second quarter with the seasonal upturn.
So I would say that we have a sort of a muted sense of optimism on volumes but that – you’re not going to see us change our strategy because it’s a strategy that drives shareholder value.
And that is we’re always going to favor yield over volume.
Right.
Just one quick one Jim can you remind us what the flow through is for that $27 million variance for electricity? Well so most of that electricity was from rates Joe.
In fact I would say it was – it was exclusively from rates.
Our kilowatt hours were actually down slightly due to some permanent plant shutdowns reduced load and some operating changes.
So I would say that that’s a top line benefit we saw was exclusively from rates.
And so that ends up flowing through the bottom line.
Great.
Thanks for your time guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Hoffman of Wunderlich.
Hey good morning David Jim and Jim.
Good morning Michael.
So I need a little clarity because there’s numbers being thrown around and I’m – I mean I may be confused myself.
In your release you show – and the data point I think is a terrific one you show.
But you show having done 21.3 million tons at the landfill and 14 versus 211 and then at – a year ago and 211 has Sandy in it.
So to get to the – I mean that’s just about 1% which I thought was great given the Sandy comparison but everybody is talking about 3% or better help me understand how I’m understanding volume at the landfill as I could.
Yes look Michael as you know when we look at internal revenue growth we don’t look at it on a tonnage basis.
We look at it – there’s a lot of different mix issues that go into it.
And so when we’re giving those numbers you’re looking at mix and price.
And then when we look at at least at C&amp;D I’m sorry.
When we look at special waste we put all of it into volume because you can’t really pull out the price.
And so you might get some lower deviations there but when we look at we say the numbers are obviously indicative of the trend and I think you hit the nail on the head.
The trend is obviously positive particularly given the Sandy comparisons particularly given that so many of our operations were shut down during the quarter but the landfill trends are clearly positive.
Okay.
So the 3.8 when that was given earlier that’s actually the revenue growth or is that how you – I just want to – I actually think it’s great that you showed the 1% volume the way you’ve put it in the chart given all of the headwind issue you just described.
Right.
So what I’m – I just – You know the 3.8 is the total growth from volume.
But again with special waste because special waste prices and transportation cost move around a lot we don’t split out price and volume and special waste we put it all into volume.
So that excuse the numbers a little bit.
But again – [Indiscernible] [Indiscernible] but directionally you can see they’re both – they’re both positive directionally.
Perfect.
So the follow on to that would be do you ever recall [ph] out of the 211 that’s total tons and that you showed in disposal how much of that was Sandy? So in reality the landfill in 1Q ‘14 weather aside saw better than a 1% volume growth tons [indiscernible]? Yes that’s absolutely right [ph].
Okay.
And so the next question would be if you were looking at who’s driving us the scales do you have a sense that this is more construction or it’s actually maybe more commercial? And where I’m getting to is are we starting to see that secular recovery of volume in the container the commercial it’s somewhere out here in the next quarter or two starts converting into that operating leverage from service intervals.
No I think that’s right.
I think if you ask our folks on the field they’ll tell you that special waste and C&amp;D are where they see this real strength in the pipeline.
Obviously MSW has been strength now from many quarters in a row.
But I think what they’ll tell you out there very optimistic is about special waste and – about special waste and C&amp;D.
You know I mean look the reality is that you had a lot of pent up demand felt [ph] particularly in the Northeastern and Midwest you had a lot of pent up demand built up during the winter and you see a little bit of that.
But we also think that we’re seeing a secular pickup obviously in the construction industry.
Okay.
On the free cash flow – and I appreciate that you’re being clear that you can add or subtract the asset sale number that do to calculation.
But on a – if I look at it on a cash from up less [ph] capital spending approach what does it take for this business to do $1.5 billion on those metrics? And – because asset sales come and go where is the leverage without getting help from volume? This is you running the business better how – where do – where do we see that? Where should we look for that as we progress? And how quickly could you get it? Boy how quickly can we get it? I don’t know.
I think we’re making pretty good progress here.
If you exclude – what you’re excluding that divestures piece which we look at that as well.
And then you – then you get to the progress we’re making on working capital.
David and I both have kind of have touched on that today.
And we still have some room there Michael be or so improved by really only a day and DPO [ph] by five days.
So fairly pleased with the improvement of DPO [ph] but not necessarily pleased with the improvement of DSO.
And both of them still have room for improvement.
So I would argue that that’s an area for continued improvements.
The EBITDA – $49 million in EBITDA and growth there is strong in light of kind of before we faced [ph] in the winter season.
Our woody [ph] business did a nice job of offsetting the weather impact in our core business.
But our core business still grew which I think is an important thing to mention.
Our core business grew and we had – look we have some challenges and we didn’t – we didn’t mention it in our scripts because we just don’t want to blame anything on the weather.
But we felt pretty darn good about the growth in EBITDA when at the same time we were shut down in Houston for a couple of days we were shut down at Atlanta I think for four days in a quarter.
So that clearly was some impact on the operation.
But it does speak to a couple of things and that is – that’s Jim Trevathan and his team did a nice job of pulling some cost out when we knew we were going to be shut down.
So I think back to your original question though hard to say when exactly we will get to a number in the 15 range excluding divestitures.
But I sure think we’re on the right path with our cost control program with our yield program and then continued work on CapEx discipline and working capital.
Hey Michael look just to add to that from a sustained $1.5 billion point of view and you said talk about it without volume.
The reality is you can’t get there without volume right? I mean look we can – we said that a million times we’ve said once which is you can’t get margin expansion unless you get 2% yield right? And so if you don’t get the yields you have no chance in getting there.
You can’t get there on cost alone right? So you got to get above 2% yield or else you have not shot at getting there.
So we’ve done that.
We’ve driven our yield up to 2.6%.
You know if we – if we got back the money the money that we lost from the lose volumes which is mostly intentionally lost volumes we’re there right? And so I would tell you that from a sustained long-term point of view $1.5 billion happens when we see our commercial volumes turn back to flat when we stop seeing the leakage of cash from lost volumes.
Now look you can’t have – I think you need it too [ph].
So you can’t – right now like I keep saying in this fix volume environment you can’t have both.
You can’t have both 2.6% yield and 2.6% volume.
We did that – remember we did that in 2012 we had positive volumes and 1% price.
We all saw what that got us.
That doesn’t get you $1.5 billion in free cash.
It doesn’t get you margin expansion.
So what I would tell you Michael is you can’t look at this without volumes you got to look at it as the right mix of price and volumes.
And until we see that commercial pie start to grow so that we can get back to flat volumes you’re going to see us generate somewhere between $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion.
Once we get – once you see those volumes starting to turn that’s when you get $1.5 billion plus.
Okay.
So to that end on the landfill side of your business do you feel good about the nature of the pricing that you’re instilling discipline in that commercial collection market by the private guy as supposed to subsidizing their ability to approach you [ph]? Yes look again you’ve heard me talked about that a million times.
That’s absolutely critical to the long-term strategy.
And yes I feel – I actually feel very good about that.
And do it about it in the sense [ph] that the market is starting to follow as well as supposed to you – No look again we – look we don’t pay attention to what the market does frankly because what the market does is not going to influence what we do.
We are going to do what we do because we – because look I’ve been here 10 years and I’ve seen it both ways.
I’ve seen us play the volume game and I’ve seen us play the price game.
And there’s only one way that we can grow the bottom line and that is by playing the price game.
So I’m encouraged by it because we go through a monthly and a quarterly review with each of the folks that re managing those businesses and we have started to ask them tell us about your top 10 customers and what are we doing with price.
And so we’re seeing what we’re doing out in the field.
And so I’m encouraged because we’re sitting down with those folks and actually seeing the results.
Okay.
Thank you very much for taking my questions.
Thank you Michael.
Your next question comes from the line of Derek Sbrogna of Macquarie.
Hey good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Good morning.
It was just – it was great to see the yield in your collection and transfer business continue moving higher.
I’m wondering if you could talk as you guys have a little bit in the past about some of the things you’re doing to retain the volumes without lowering price.
And then if you can maybe kind of assess how successful you think some of these programs have been? Yes it’s a great question.
And frankly it’s where the bulk of our focus is right now because the reality is that most customers whether it’s solid waste or cable or telephone or water service or electricity most customers don’t switch just because you put a 3% price increase on them.
They understand that everybody has to get price increases to see their – because their cost base goes up.
And so they get it.
So they don’t leave you because you raise the price.
But if you raise the price and then have a service issue that’s when they leave you right? So if your cable repeatedly goes out that’s when you start going and looking for another provider.
And so we need to be 100% focused on providing that best service to our customer and not give them a reason to leave.
We’ve done the studies everyone says well your leave you over price we’ve done the study.
They don’t leave you over price.
That is not the number one reason they leave you.
The number one reason they leave you is leave you with service issues.
And so that’s why we’ve dedicated a lot of human capital and a lot of technology to making sure that we can have the best service.
And so we were glad to see that as we went through the pricing progress in 2013 our churn rate did pick up.
We were glad to see that in the first quarter of 2014 the churn rate actually moderated and was down sequentially from the fourth quarter so we’re encouraged by that.
But look we still have a long way to go.
Okay that’s very helpful.
And just one more if I can.
With the stronger free cash flow it doesn’t look like you guys bought back any shares in Q1 but instituted the $600 million buyback last quarter can you talk about your appetite for buy backs here given the stronger free cash flow? Yeah you’re right.
We didn’t buy back any shares in Q1 but I would expect to see us back in the market buying shares sometime in Q2.
Okay.
And can you just remind us there has been some talk about extending the bonus appreciation.
Can you just remind us on what that headwind is and what that can potentially add to free cash flow if that is reversed in 2014? So we estimated it about $70 million to $80 million was the headwind.
So obviously if that law changes if we get the extenders then we would see that reversed.
But for now we’re expecting to see about $70 million to $80 million of headwind as a result of no-bonus appreciation.
Yeah understood.
Nice job.
Congratulations.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Al Kaschalk [ph] of Wedbush [ph].
Good morning.
Good morning Al [ph].
Just to follow David on a lot of the price-to-volume discussion if you’re prepared to continue the dial [ph] on the price and implement that what expectations should you have for investors in terms of the volume comp in terms of – are you getting to a point where you’re going to annualize that and therefore volume declines will be getting closer to flat or should we start to still see some of these the numbers that you’re posting down 2% 3%? Yeah well that’s a great question Al [?] and it goes back to one of the things I said in the script which – if fundamental to our strategy which is we aren’t looking for the most volume.
We are not the company that you’re going to – if you want the company that’s getting the most volume you need to look somewhere else.
We’re going to be the company that gets the best volume right the best volume mix that can get us the highest income from operations dollars and margins.
And so I would certainly expect to see as the economy continues to improve I would certainly expect to see those volumes get better.
Now having said that remember in the second quarter as Jim mentioned we lost a couple of resi contract that folks bid at prices that we weren’t willing to go to.
And then we have our largest national account that quite frankly was a low single-digit margin and someone came in and undercut the price on that even though ours was low-single digit and we weren’t going to go there.
We said – look we’d rather not have the work than have the volumes.
Oh we lose that volume starting April 1 so you’ll see a little bit tougher comp in the second quarter.
The good news is we lost that volume it came with virtually no earnings.
And so we’ll take that tradeoff every day.
We now can redeploy those trucks to going out and getting a higher margin business which from an earnings point of view will be accretive to us.
And so look that’s our deal is that when we lose volumes – and I’m not telling you we’re 100% perfect because we’re not perfect by any stretch.
But the intention is that when we lose volumes we want to lose those volumes that are lower margin and then take those assets that we freed up and go allocate those to higher margin business.
That’s how you get the best volumes rather than get [?] to the most volume.
Right.
Your competition is telling us you are 100% perfect so I’ll have to correct them on that okay.
Well I wish we were but we’ve got a long way to go.
All right.
Fine.
Okay.
See what I would tell you Al is my folks out in the field are perfect.
I’m nowhere near.
Okay.
That’s probably what they were saying sorry.
Fair enough.
I appreciate the color.
What about I mean maybe you don’t want to share this given the nature of the call but where are you seeing – I won’t say the perfect volume or the incremental dollar volume that you want to get but where are you focusing or where are we looking for the incremental volume to come from? Even if on a [indiscernible] basis you’re down as a company.
Right.
Again you’ve got to sort of look at it by line of business.
And what I would tell you is that on the landfill side we’re very comfortable with where we are right.
On the collection side again on the residential side we all know what’s going on there.
It’s a lot of capital that you’ve got to invest and so we have to look at that purely from a return on capital point of view.
And so we’re not going to bid contracts that are low return on capital.
But we’ve certainly want to retain the contracts that we have.
On the industrial side I would tell you that generally we’re going to get better margins on permanent roll offs than we’re going to get on temporary roll offs and we’ll allocate dollars there.
On the commercial side look there’s a lot of volume to be had if you want to go after these large school districts for example.
But we’ve had very little school district business because we see competitors coming in at a $1 to $1.50 a yard and we’re just not going to go there.
And so what I would tell you is that we know where the higher margin customers are and that’s where we’re going to fish.
We’re not going to go fish just to put our cans out.
We’re not going to go take a school district at $1 a yard.
Okay.
I’ll have one quick one addition there is that when you think about volume that we like our energy services volume is volume that we like.
It’s been a good growth story for us.
March was the strongest month from a revenue standpoint and from a margin standpoint but particularly from a revenue standpoint that we’ve ever had.
We were up 25% year-over-year for the quarter even with a little bit of weather impact there.
I mean it was awfully cold in North Dakota and still with that we saw a 25% top line growth in that business.
It’s good business for us.
In addition I think the – we expect that EPA at some point will promulgate coal ash disposal standards and we’re well-positioned there to help that industry manage its coal combustion byproducts.
So that will be good business for us as well.
Right.
Just – thanks for that color Jim.
To clarify though where are those businesses being reported by line of business or –? Yeah are you talking about energy services that all flows just through our core business.
And through the industrial line on the collection side generally – Yeah okay.
– through the special waste line on the landfill side.
All right.
Can you – you brought up a good point about coal ash.
Can you just give us an update on what’s your expectations are there on regulation and when do you expect to hear? Yeah I believe the EPA has a court order to issue something by the end of the year.
So we would expect that because we’re well positioned we would expect that sometime in kind of the 15 16 period we’ll start to see this materially move the needle.
So is that the relationship with utility customers and because of landfill and the expectation that this will be Subtitle D disposal or Subtitle C? Yeah I don’t think anybody believes it will be Subtitle C but there’s a number of things that they’re looking for including beneficial reuse including management of their own landfills as a number of them have landfills.
We can help them manage their landfills.
And then of course if they care to take it offsite we can obviously handle that as well.
All right.
Okay.
Thanks.
Finally one question here.
Your asset sale on the JV in China I think would maybe prompt the question on international and David what’s the plan here in terms of maybe growth or a refocused organization in terms of outside of North America.
Yeah and look I think you hit the nail on the head.
The word would be refocused right I mean look when we went to China we had a spectacular partner there Shanghai Chang Pal [ph] the parent company and Shanghai Environmental Group the subsidiary that we directly work with was a great partner.
In fact even though we took out our equity investment in China.
We actually will continue working with them providing technical services.
So we’ll still provide them people over there.
We just thought that it was a better use of our capital.
The other thing about the Chinese market is that it’s a fast-growing market but it’s also a very competitive market and we just thought that we could better redeploy the capital into our core business in the United States.
Now we still have a waste energy project being built in the United Kingdom and we’d expect to continue to see a growth in projects over there.
But look I think you hit the nail on the head.
We’re completely refocused is on our core solid waste business in North America and we were pretty pleased to see the improvement.
Now we got some good benefit from Wheelabrator in the quarter.
They had a spectacular quarter but we all know that was drive by electricity prices that primarily by electricity prices that are going to moderate as the weather warms up.
So we’ll take that additional capital.
We’ll refocus on the core business and as Jim said we’ll use that free cash flow to go off and buy some shares this year.
Right and just a follow up on that one.
The cash that you get are you allowed to repatriate that back here or as – need to be deployed? Yes.
Now we repatriated the full $155 million back here.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Corey Greendale of First Analysis.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Corey.
Good morning.
I’ll try to keep it really brief.
I think you’ve talked in the past about having – about your analytics behind your pricing.
Can you just talk – and I realize there’s difference by customer and market.
But can you just talk about how close you are in the field to what you believe the optimum is based on your analytics? Yeah gosh Corey I would tell you we’re nowhere close to the optimum.
I mean we have so many customers that they are spread out fairly quickly.
So I would say that if you look at it from a customer-by-customer basis we’re nowhere near the optimum.
But if you look at sort of like the overall strategic implementation of the pricing plan is out in the field our folks out in the field completely get it.
Do we make mistakes? Look we made plenty of bids where we thought we were going to earn x and we ended up earning y.
So we’re nowhere near perfect but they all get what the strategy is and frankly they’re doing a great job of implementing it.
So then to follow up on Al’s question about kind of that price-volume tradeoff I assume the optimum is not on a company wide basis to have 10% yield and negative whatever it would be volume how close to just – at a high level that we can see how close are we to what you think the optimum is where you would still be growing maximizing operating income what would the price volume look like? Yeah again in this current – if you look at a business environment that isn’t growing I would tell you that I think we’re right about there right? If we’re going to see above 2% yield it would be very difficult for us to have positive volumes.
It’s just the nature of that beast.
And so if you believe that there’s not going to be any volume growth ever again then I would tell you we’re pretty close to optimize.
What we need to see in order to get to the optimization of the overall business is we need to see volume growth.
And we’re seeing that volume growth in the landfill that’s encouraging.
We’re starting to see that growth get a little bit better despite the first quarter I would say on the industrial side and then commercials stubbornly remains sort of stuck in that negative 3% to 5% range.
Corey I would add that as a matter of course Jim Trevathan has monthly calls with all of the areas and we regularly look at income from operations by line of business.
And so we are assessing whether we’ve pushed too hard.
We’ll look at specific areas in a specific line of business within those areas and determine whether is income from operations declining in the phase of very heavy price increase and very heavy volume loss.
And that to us would indicate that maybe we’ve reached that kind of point of diminishing returns.
But I would also add that we’ve seen very few of those I mean I don’t know exactly where we are but we’ve seen very few of those there’s a couple of them but for the most part we still think we have room there to move ahead on price.
And Jim I would add we have a couple that are in question but they’re MSAs they’re not entire areas.
Right.
They’re not one of our 17 areas.
It may be one MSA that we’re taking a harder look at.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Certainly.
Your next question comes from the line of Tony Bancroft of Gabelli &amp; Company.
Hey good morning gentlemen.
Thanks for getting my call.
Just a quick question on – back to JV monetization.
Now are you planning on – I know you’re saying you’re looking – you’re getting out China but is there – if there is a potential opportunity over there that looks good would you potentially go back in to – to try to grow more in China or what’s your sort of long-term outlook with that? Yeah I think everybody has seen sort of a little bit of a moderation in what’s going on in China from a growth perspective right? I mean three years ago China was sort of the dot com of its time.
It was growing so fast and obviously we’ve all seen that growth moderate over the last few years.
But it’s a great point.
It’s one of the reasons why I’m glad of two things.
One that we still have a great relationship with our joint venture partner.
And two we’re going to be continuing to provide them service over there because that will give us not as big a toehold as we have when we were helping them build plants but it’ll still give us a little bit of toehold over there so that if there is an opportunity we’ll be able to spot it.
Now I would tell you I don’t see any of that on the near-term horizon but with China being such a large part of the world economy I think it would be foolish to say – we never want to go back to China and I’m actually glad that we’re maintaining the relationship with our partner over there.
Yeah thank you.
And then just to sort of jump back to some prior questions about long-term growth in lines of businesses.
In five years where is sort of the next focus not so much on your organic operations in trying to fine tune those but I mean you mentioned about energy waste doing so well.
You’re a huge asset owner in most of the basin.
Do you have any thoughts on that and I know we’ve talked about it before but maybe there’s been quite a bit of growth recently.
Is there anymore focus on that? Yeah I think that clearly energy service this area where we have some longer term visibility and I wouldn’t say that about maybe the overall macroeconomic climate.
I couldn’t tell you what the economy is going to do in the US and the rest of North America past 2015.
But energy services sure looks like that as a growth engine not only for the economy but for us specifically for the next 5 to 10 years.
So we think energy services and environmental services are two of those growth areas that you’ve asked [ph] about.
And then to dovetail on to that look the energy services is all about fracing and energy that low natural – and natural gas pricing.
That low natural gas pricing as you can see is going to drive billions of dollars of infrastructure investment in the chemical corridors and in other areas.
And so it’s going to generate a tremendous amount of M&amp;I manufacturing and industrial activity.
And so we certainly think that when you look at the energy services not only do you see the growth there but you see the adjacent growth as people try to take advantage of low energy pricing.
Got it.
Thank you.
And I guess just I’ve got to ask you.
If that business grew large enough is there something that you want to sort of maybe sort of expose [ph] on your quarterly reporting or maybe do something more like spin-off or is there anymore – is there any strategic thoughts about that.
Yeah well we generally don’t look at that until it reaches 10% of our revenue.
So I would love to be able to report it.
If it’s a good business high margin my guess is that you’re going to see great growth but you won’t see that kind of growth where we’d say – okay let’s go split it off separately.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
Thank you so much.
Certainly.
Your final question comes from the line of Barbra Alborene [ph] of Morningstar.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Regarding recycling I know that you’ve mentioned this little meta site [ph].
Have you been successful in charging customers penalties well I suppose [indiscernible] a very customer friendly terms so maybe I’ll rephrase that.
Have you been successful at increasing fees for contaminated recyclables or is this more a matter of educating customer still to give you less of them at the get-go? Yeah it’s a combination of both.
We’ve done just that and not all of our contracts allow us to do that but where we’ve been allowed contractually to do that we’ve done just that.
But long term you’ve hit the nail on the head long term it is an education.
We’re all better off if the consumer knows how to separate it so that we don’t have the contamination to begin with.
The consumer doesn’t want to be penalized or the customer doesn’t want to be penalized for contaminated loads and we certainly don’t want to have those higher operating costs from contaminated loads.
So the short-term solution is to say we’re going to charge you.
The long-term solution is to educate the consumers and our customers.
Barbara [ph] I might add that as Dave mentioned not all of our contracts allow for that charge for contamination but as renew contracts we are absolutely adding it to contracts that we’re protected and also the customer is protected and know what to expect from our charges.
Got you.
Would you be willing to share a percentage? How many of these contracts have from renewal actually accept the terms that allow for a surcharge or fee on these contaminants? Well I can tell you 100% are the ones that we renew.
That’s very helpful.
Thanks.
Okay.
But I think we’d all be guessing if we told you what percentage have not allowed – look I’d be shocked and you can follow up with that and he’ll follow up with our recycling folks.
But I would be shocked if a large customer did not allow some level of contamination clause into the contract.
Got it.
Got it.
Jim as you work with your field teams to help them educate customers are customers getting it or is this still a challenge that you guys are working through? I would imagine that in some cases in some larger – even some smaller customers are just not really that quick on the uptake.
So what do you do with your field team to help move that process along? Yeah look again the customer in this instant ranges from a sort of a small customer with a small business to a large national account to large municipalities.
So all customers are different but look the large customers that make up the bulk of the fiber market absolutely get it.
They understand look they see what’s going on with demand on China.
They see what’s going on with commodity prices.
And more importantly they see what’s going on with investment in recycling and infrastructure right.
I mean we’re not investing in recycling and infrastructure and as far as we know nobody is making big investments in new recycling infrastructure.
So they understand that if you’re a large city or if you’re a large national account you’ve got to make this a long-term sustainable business model in order to drive the investment so that you can drive more recycling.
And I think they absolutely understand that.
Like anything though markets don’t turn on a time right so it’s going to take some time for that to seep through the market and see sort of a long-term systemic change in the way folks do business in recycling.
All right sounds good.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
I will now return the call back over to Mr.
David Steiner for closing remarks.
Well thank you all for joining us.
We certainly want to thank all of our field employees who did a phenomenal job working through a challenging first quarter.
I’m sure they all like we welcome the seasonal turn the warmer weather throughout the United States and we look forward to talking to you all in our second quarter conference call.
Thank you for participating in today’s Waste Management conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at 2 PM Eastern Standard Time today through 11:59 PM Eastern Standard Time on Friday May 9<sup>th</sup>.
The conference ID number for the replay is 10543459.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 10543459.
The number to dial for the replay is 1800-585-8367 or 855-859-2056 or 1404-537-3406.
This concludes today’s Waste Management conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Jenisha and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speaker’s remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions) I will now turn the call over to Ed Egl Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin your call.
Thank you Jenisha.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are David Steiner President and Chief Executive Officer Jim Fish Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Trevathan Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before we get started please note that we have filed a Form 8-K this morning that includes the earnings press release and is available on our Web site at www.wm.com.
The Form 8-K the press release and the schedule for the press release include important information.
During the call you would hear forward-looking statements which are based on current expectations projections or opinions about future periods.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of these risks and uncertainties are discussed in today’s press release and in our filings with the SEC including our most recent Form 10-K.
David and Jim will discuss our results in the areas of yield and volume which unless otherwise stated more specifically references the Internal Revenue Growth or IRG from yield or volume.
Additionally any comparisons unless otherwise stated will be with the second quarter of 2013.
During the call David and Jim will discuss our earnings per diluted share which they may refer to as EPS or Earnings Per Share.
David and Jim will also address operating EBITDA and operating EBITDA margin as defined in the Form 8-K filed today.
EPS income from operations margin operating EBITDA and operating EBITDA margin results discussed during the call have been adjusted to exclude items that management believes do not reflect the fundamental business performance or are not indicative of our results of operations.
These measures in addition to free cash flow are non-GAAP measures.
Please refer to the earnings press release footnote and schedules in the Form 8-K filed today which can be found on the Company’s Web site at www.wm.com for reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures and additional information about our use of non-GAAP measures.
Please note that our Form 8-K filed earlier this morning also include a copy of our press release announcing that we have entered into an agreement for the sale of Wheelabrator.
You should be aware that projected EPS free cash flow and all other forward-looking statements except those specifically pertaining to the Wheelabrator transaction do not incorporate any benefits or costs associated with the Wheelabrator transaction.
For additional information on the proposed transaction or related risk and uncertainties please see the press release filed at Exhibit 99.2 to our Form 8-K.
This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning at approximately 1:00 PM Eastern Time today until 5:00 PM Eastern Time on August 12.
To hear a replay of the call over the Internet access the Waste Management Web site at www.wm.com.
To hear a telephonic replay of the call dial 855-859-2056 and enter reservation code 63619185.
Time-sensitive information provided during today’s call which is occurring on July 29 2014 may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Waste Management is prohibited.
Now I will turn the call over to Waste Management’s President and CEO David Steiner.
Thanks Ed and good morning from Houston.
We had a very good quarter and we’ll talk in detail about our results but first I wanted to discuss the news in today’s press release announcing that we have signed a definitive agreement to sell our Wheelabrator waste-to-energy business to Energy Capital Partners for $1.94 billion.
As we have said before our waste-to-energy business has two distinct components.
The tip fees that we receive on the front-end and the payments for energy on the back.
We did not view the energy payments as strategic and we do not have the depth of energy expertise that Energy Capital Partners has.
Consequently we have entered into a waste supply agreement from the front-end where we will use our expertise to fill up the plants for seven years just like we do today.
But we will no longer have the volatility of the financial results related to Wheelabrator electricity sale.
We use the proceeds from the sale in a way that is most accretive to earnings and creates the most shareholder value.
We’ll do so by buying back shares or doing acquisitions in our core business if they’re more accretive and to create long-term shareholder value.
We’ll do all of this while maintaining our strong balance sheet.
Wheelabrator is a high performing organization that reflects the quality of the people our friends and colleagues that operate it.
I want to thank Mark Weidman and the entire Wheelabrator team for their hard work and dedication.
They made our waste-to-energy business successful and we anticipate that the business will continue to be successful under Mark’s leadership and ECP’s ownership.
Returning to second quarter results the solid performance that we saw on the first quarter continued throughout the second quarter.
Once again our yield and cost control programs drove growth in both our income from operations and operating EBITDA and led to expanded margins in our traditional solid waste business and our overall business.
In the second quarter we earned $0.60 per share an increase of over 10% when compared to the second quarter of 2013.
In addition we saw nice improvement in net cash provided by operations and free cash flow.
Through the first six months of 2014 our employees have executed on our business plans and we’re encouraged by the strong results.
We expect that this performance will continue throughout the remainder of the year.
Our yield program continues to be a significant driver of our margin expansion.
For the second quarter our collection and disposal yield was 2.3% which is the fifth consecutive quarter of yield above 2% it is down slightly from our Q1 yield primarily due to increased revenue and the anniversary of the implementation of our regulatory cost recovery fee in 2013.
Our core pricing remains very strong at 3.9% a year-over-year improvement of 10 basis points.
Each of our lines of business had positive yield with the exception of landfill C&amp;D.
In the landfill MSW line same-store average rates increased 5.1% and through the second quarter nearly 90% of our contracted third-party landfill customers have received a price increase.
The remaining landfill customers either perform event work or have restrictions that limit price increase opportunities.
When compared to the second quarter of 2013 same-store average rates in both the commercials and industrial lines increased 4.4% and we saw a 3.1% increase in our residential line.
This has had some effect on volumes particularly with regard to national accounts and residential contracts but we continue to see the trademark as positive as the operating margin in our traditional solid waste business was up 50 basis points.
Turning to volumes in the second quarter volumes were a negative 1.4% which is an improvement of 40 basis points from the first quarter.
More than 50% of our volume decline came from several low margin but large national account losses.
In the second quarter we saw a positive landfill and transportation volumes more than offset by declines in the collection lines of business.
Despite negative volumes overall income from operations grew more than 9% and our income from operations margin grew 120 basis points.
In addition operating EBITDA increased more than 5% and operating EBITDA margins increased 120 basis points to 25.6%.
When we issued volume patterns at the beginning of the year we expected volumes to be around a negative 1% for 2014.
Through the first six months volumes have declined 1.6% and we now expect that to be about the run rate for the remainder of the year with the change being primarily attributable to the continuing impact of lost national account business.
Our recycling operations also performed better in the quarter adding almost $0.01 in earnings per share compared to the second quarter of 2013 despite a 2.1% decline in average commodity prices.
The efforts that we have put in place to improve our enforcement on contaminated loads and modify the methods for calculating rebates to customers are paying off.
Operating cost in the recycling line of business improved almost 8% primarily due to lower rebates and reduced labor costs.
Turning to our waste-to-energy business in the second quarter operating results were essentially flat when compared to 2013.
We did not change our full year EPS or free cash flow guidance as a result of the proposed sale of Wheelabrator.
But if the deal closes before the end of the year it could have a minor impact on earnings and cash.
On average our waste-to-energy operations would produce about $0.015 of earnings and $10 million in free cash flow per month.
We expect that this transaction will close sometime in the last two months of the year in which case the effect on this year’s earnings and free cash flow would be minimal.
Our solid first half performance on yield and cost controls makes us confident that we can meet or exceed our full year earnings growth goals.
But first and foremost our Company operates to generate cash flow and when we combine our yield and cost focus with our focus on capital discipline and working capital we expect to see strong cash flow in the second half of 2014.
Consequently we expect to meet or exceed the 1.5 billion high-end of our free cash flow guidance.
I’m now going to turn the call over to Jim to discuss our second quarter results and the sale of Wheelabrator in more detail.
Thank you David.
Before discussing the details of our second quarter results I want to provide some additional information on the sale of our Wheelabrator business.
After normal transaction adjustments to the sales price we anticipate receiving about $1.85 billion in cash once the transaction is finalized late this year.
With our basis in Wheelabrator we will pay no taxes on the transaction and it should generate a capital loss of approximately $300 million that we can utilize over the next five years.
Our base Wheelabrator divestiture model assumed a partial use of proceeds to maintain leverage neutrality with the majority of the proceeds going to share repurchases.
The diluted EPS accretion in that model is about $0.02 per share for 2015.
Of course we will look for reasonably priced core businesses to replace the $220 million of Wheelabrator EBITDA if they are accretive to the base model.
In either case we would selectively retire debt to the extent necessary to maintain our strong balance sheet and our target leverage ratio of about three times EBITDA.
On the share repurchase front we’d anticipate it that we would in the market repurchasing our shares in the first half of 2014.
However we suspended share repurchases while the Wheelabrator transaction was pending.
Now that we’ve announced the transaction we have entered into an accelerated share repurchase program to spend the full amount of our previously announced $600 million authorization on share repurchases.
We will fund the $600 million on August 1st and we’ll see an initial delivery of approximately 9.6 million shares representing 70% of the shares expected to be retired.
The actual number of shares repurchased will depend upon the volume weighted average price of our stock less a discount during the repurchase period which we expect to be three to six months.
Turning to our second quarter results.
Our revenue grew 1% to $3.56 billion.
Strong yield and acquisition revenue were the main drivers with volume declines and a negative foreign currency translation muting revenue growth.
The foreign exchange impact on revenue was approximately $14 million.
We continue to see improvement in all our cost lines.
Operating cost as a percent of revenue improved 90 basis points to 64.6% and improved $10 million in the second quarter.
Reduced cost at our recycling facilities and the sale of an asset improved the cost of operations $41 million and we were partially offset by increased cost related to recently acquired businesses.
SG&amp;A costs were flat when compared to the second quarter of 2013 at $353 million and improved as a percent of revenue by 10 basis points to 9.9%.
We are still on target to achieve our full year SG&amp;A goals.
Turning to cash flow for the second quarter we generated $447 million of free cash flow an increase of $100 million when compared to 2013.
We accomplished this by growing our net cash provided by operating activities $10 million to $555 million by improving working capital and by maintaining discipline on capital spending.
The growth and net cash provided by operating activities was muted by an increase of over $70 million in cash taxes primarily related to the repatriation of accumulated cash from Puerto Rico operations and the expiration of the bonus depreciation allowance.
Our capital expenditures for the quarter were $208 million a decrease of $27 million from the second quarter of 2013.
We also divested our Puerto Rico operations and other assets in the quarter for about $100 million.
Year-to-date 2014 we’ve generated $931 million in total free cash flow and $665 million excluding divestiture proceeds.
This is the highest free cash flow we have ever generated through the first six months of the year puts us on-track to meet or exceed the upper-end of our full year free cash flow goal of between $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion despite a planned to pickup in capital expense in the second half of 2014.
Looking at internal revenue growth for the total company in the second quarter our collection and disposal yield was 2.3% with volumes declining 1.4%.
This led to income from operations growing $48 million operating income margin growing 120 basis points operating EBITDA growing $48 million and operating EBITDA margin growing 120 basis points.
Our collection line of business continues to see the benefit of the yield volume trade-off.
Both our commercial and industrial yields were 4.2%m while residential was 1.6%.
Overall collection yield was 3.2% with volumes declining 4.1%.
This led to income from operations growing $7 million and margin expanding 10 basis points.
The industrial line of business drove the growth in income from operations but that growth was muted by continued declines in the residential line where we lost two profitable franchised contracts.
In the landfill line of business for the second quarter we saw the benefits of both positive volume and positive yield just as we did in the first quarter.
Total landfill volume increased 3.9%.
Combined special waste and revenue generating cover volumes were positive 2.1% MSW volumes grew by 4.4% and C&amp;D volume grew 11.5%.
MSW yield rose 2%.
This led to income from operations growing $9 million which is the fifth consecutive quarter of growth and margins grew 20 basis points.
Finally looking at our other financial metrics at the end of the second quarter our weighted average cost to debt was 4.79% and the floating rate portion of our total debt was 12% at the end of the quarter.
Our income tax rate in the quarter was 44.7% primarily because foreign cash accumulated in Puerto Rico was repatriated to United States upon divestiture of the operations.
For the next two quarters we expect our tax rate to be approximately 35%.
We’re encouraged by the results for the first six months of the year which put us on-track to meet our full year targets.
The strong momentum in our pricing and cost controls sets us up nicely for the second half of 2014 and positions us for continued success into 2015 as we look to redeploy the proceeds from the sale of Wheelabrator.
I would be remised if I do not thank our employees for their hard work because of them 2014 has been successful so far and we’re looking forward to continued improvement with their help.
I would particularly like to thank the employees of Wheelabrator.
They have been valuable teammates.
We take pride in running a great and safe business.
I know they will continue that success under the ownership of ECP.
And Jenisha with that we’ll open the line up for questions.
Congratulations on the quarter and the sale of Wheelabrator there and I guess my first question here is in the press release announcing the sale you mentioned the fact that there are some targets out there that you’re interested in.
And that there is a good sized pipeline we haven’t seen a lot of larger acquisitions with the exception of RCI out of you guys recently but a little bit more color on what you see out there and additional thoughts with regards to the timing at which point you might look at deploying capital for buybacks versus M&amp;A a bit more color on your investment plans and do you see them for the proceeds after the deal closes? Scott generally what we’re looking at is as you can well imagine are sort of those smaller tuck-in acquisitions.
And obviously you’ve got to in order to spend the kind of money that we’re selling this Wheelabrator business for we’re going to have to put together quite a lot of those.
So it will take time if we’re going to replace that EBITDA.
As we’ve said to the extent we can’t do that we would buy back shares.
The whole theory of the transaction was that we didn’t want to do a deal that wasn’t going to be accretive to earnings and so we used this base case of 100% of proceeds going to debt pay down and share repurchase as our base case.
The good news is that that’s accretive and to the extent that we can buy businesses to tuck them in that would replace the EBITDA that’s a net positive for us.
So we’ll be looking at that over the next few months as we move toward a closing and then I will expect Scott that once we do close it at the end of the third quarter mid fourth quarter we’d have a much better defined plan as to how much of those proceeds we can actually deploy into new businesses.
And then as my follow-up I think Jim had mentioned that you’d lost a couple of profitable franchised contracts during the quarter.
Maybe a little bit more color regarding the competitive landscape and your commitment to pricing I am assuming that continues.
But is the environment becoming more or less competitive a bit more color on the operating environment and pricing there?  Look the residential line of business is always very competitive because they are large contracts sort of just like the national accounts.
I would characterize the pricing environment as fairly stable.
Look there is really only two things that we can look at to determine the pricing environments and that is the discussions with our local managers and publicly reported statistics.
And I don’t think there is any doubt that in the last 12 months to 18 months we’ve seen some of our larger competitors favor volume over price.
That’s not something that we traditionally have done and obviously that has cost us volume.
But overall I’d say that when you look at all the competition out there that it’s fairly stable.
So maybe one first on the core the landfill pricing I missed on your landfill pricing you mentioned of positive 5.1%.
Does that include any of those contracts which are linked to CPI and maybe give us a sense I know you guys have talked about on the overall business about 40% of the contracts being linked to CPI.
But maybe give us a sense of what that is on the landfill side just to get an understanding of how much of that business is versus competitive markets versus what’s linked to CPI? Yes when we look at landfill contracts there is really two things.
It’s not just CPI.
There is also a lot of those contracts will have just a standard price increase in it.
So just to use an example it might be a $30 contract and it goes up to $32 the following year 34.
So it won’t have a specific CPI related but it will have a specific price increase.
So a large portion of our contracts would have those types of price escalators in them and what we have said is that we are going to look at those contracts as they renew and we are going to get higher price increases and then to the extent that we have volume that we can raise price on.
Immediately we’re going to look for 5% to 7% price increases.
We’re really just started to turn all of our focus to the landfill pricing over the last six months.
I would tell you that we are sort of in the second or third inning on that project there’s still a long way to go.
Got it that was helpful.
And then maybe one on Wheelabrator this as we have talked about it over the last couple of years about potential sale.
Can you maybe talk about the timing I mean why now and have you been in negotiations for a while for sale of this asset and maybe just a little more color around that please? Look as you know there has been rumors out there for probably two years that we have been looking at the sale of Wheelabrator.
But it needed to be the right partner for us.
We feel like we found the right partner.
It needed to be the right waste supply agreements for us and we feel like we’ve crafted a good supply agreement with ECP.
So it was not so much around when the timing was but when we could get the various features of the agreement together that satisfies both us and our -- and the partner that we are selling to.
And I would tell you that Jim led the negotiations for the transaction.
And from Jim’s point of view I can promise you that he thought the negotiations lasted a very long time because he spent a good portion of his time literally over the last six months getting this deal done.
My wife’s point of view as well.
Thanks pretty close.
It’s Amit Mehrotra here from Deutsche Bank.
Congrats guys you had a nice quarter and congrats on the announcement as well.
First question is on pricing.
Could you just comment on maybe in terms of what inning you guys are in with respect to pricing growth and if we look out this time next year we will be talking about the ninth straight quarter of 2% plus yield and just as a follow-up to that.
What level is the company willing to see volume comps get more negative to get to the same level of price and mix growth? Yes.
When we look at the price volume trade-off I will tell you that that I would expect that next year you’ll hear us say it’s the ninth straight quarter of over 2%.
Now as we talked about you saw it go from 2.6 to 2.3.
That’s really more mathematical things than anything else.
It’s the anniversary and has some various fees.
So it’s not an indication that we’re going backwards in pricing.
It’s really more just an indication of mathematics but you should see that above 2% for the -- certainly the near future and I would expect well through 2015.
When you think about the volume trade-off you got to look at it in various lines of business right.
When we look at it we say what are those lines of business where we can get volumes without affecting the pricing dynamics in a market? And we are going to focus more on those volumes than we would on other volumes.
And so we want to be a little bit more circumspect and how we manage our volumes.
We think that going into 2015 we should see some easier comps and we should see the volume start to stabilize.
And look that’s what we’ve always said.
That this model really starts churning once you can get both yield over 2% and positive volumes.
I would hope that in 2015 we can see that reality for the first time in many years.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then just a follow-up on the sale announcement can you just update us on the cost plan that you guys have in place in terms of the 100 basis points reduction on a run rate basis by the end of ’16.
I’m assuming that would need to be recalibrated given the divestiture and that impact on the sales level? Yes I think if you think about the cost piece what we are mostly talking about with Jim Trevathan and his team is on the core side of our business and that is ongoing and we feel like we are making progress there as you saw in our results.
It won’t be affected in terms of absolute dollars.
It could be affected in terms of basis points just simply because of the smaller business here.
But I think the main point is that when we look at cost control whether it is on operating cost or SG&amp;A we feel like we’re making very-very good progress with still additional progress to go.
Just a question on the supply agreement could you give us a sense of how that supply agreement is structured with Energy Capital Partners? How long does it last for? And specifically what we’re looking for is does this impact your ability be strategic on disposal pricing given that waste-to-energy plants are like landfills in your disposal network? Any color there would be good.
Thanks.
So Hamzah look the intent of the negotiation of the waste supply agreement was to replicate what Waste Management and we have in place today.
And I think we’ve done that ECP’s primary interest in the waste supply agreement was volume certainty and both sides worked hard to crack an agreement to provide that volume certainty.
But it also allows us to optimize our operation.
For example our landfills as you know are a critical piece of our business and we’ll continue to bring tonnes in those landfills while at the same time fulfilling the volume commitment.
And I don’t know whether that answers your question specifically but I think we feel good about the fact that we have crafted a waste supply agreement that satisfies both parties needs.
Okay.
I can follow-up offline on that that is fine.
And then on the volume loss could you give us a sense of how much more low margin business do you have in your portfolio? It seems like over the last couple of years we’ve been pruning that now we have a pricing gate.
Are we near the end of pruning of low margin business and we should expect the pricing gate to come off once that process is done? Any color on that thanks.
Yes again Hamzah you’ve got to look at it by line of business.
I would say that on the commercial line our primary focus is going to be on maintaining the customers that we have right.
We’ve said it many times that some customers will leave for price and those customers are going to leave but everybody else you got to make sure that you have a high level of service to maintain them.
So our core strategy on the commercial side would be to provide the best service and reduce the churn rate.
On the roll-off side obviously as you see temporary roll-off improved throughout the country with residential and commercial construction going up we would expect to get our fair share of volumes there.
And so I would expect that we’ll see the volumes on the roll-off side turn positive in 2015.
And on the residential line we probably still have some residential contracts that are low margin contracts you should see those start to be called out or re-priced throughout 2015.
So it depends upon what line of business you’re looking at and how we’ll approach it that sort of talked about what we’re going to do on each of the three collection lines.
And just last question I’ll turn it over.
Are there any other adjacencies that you would like to get into? It seems like there maybe a little bit of medical waste still in the portfolio but the rest of the adjacencies are gone is energy services a bigger vertical that you want to get bigger in? Thanks.
Yes clearly we would look to get bigger in energy services it has been a good growth business for us.
We’d expect that growth to continue and we’d like to get bigger there.
On medical waste I think it’s been well documented that they’re a very strong competitor that does a great job of keeping everybody out of that business.
And so we’d expect that business frankly to not be as much of a growth area as we thought it would be in the past.
And so when we look at the growth areas we’re really looking at our manufacturing and industrial business and our energy services business.
Hamzah that energy services business continues to grow at a 25% 30% cliff for us it still is relatively small compared to the size of the overall business but certainly a nice growth engine.
First on the pricing thinking about the second half of ’14 will there be any notable impact from the flow through of the CPI as it sort of flows through pricing in the back half versus the first half of the year? Yes the CPI will likely be a little bit lower in the back half of the year than it was in the front half of the year given the performance of CPI and the fact that a lot of our contracts reprise on July 1st.
But again what we’ve always said is if CPI is lower we just have to go out and get those pricing dollars from other places.
And so we’d expect that to continue in the back half of ’14.
Got it David and I am not sure if I missed any incremental comments you had on bonus depreciation but our another competitor talked about the potential for it to be retroactively extended before the year-end.
And I am curious if you have any thoughts around whether that potentially could happen? And if it does what would be the impact on Waste Management’s cash flows? It’s hard to predict what the government is going to do I guess.
But certainly could happen and we’d be happy if it were extended.
But the impact for us is substantial it’s probably close to $80 million a year so it’s substantial on part of when you look at cash flow from operations part of the headwind was the expiration of bonus depreciation for the quarter it was worth about $20 million.
Nice job on the recycling front offsetting some commodity weakness I think clearly a step in the right direction.
Can you just give us a feel for if this is the beginning and we should continue to expect lower rebates and lower labor expense or if this is maybe more of a one-time true up and we should continue to see things kind of at this level?   Yes I know.
This is definitely the beginning and so you know it’s a combination of things.
It’s continuing to manage our contracts and the rebate structure it’s continuing to look at our cost structure and driving costs out and then it’s also rationalizing the plants where we don’t have volume.
They have done a nice job in the first half of 2014.
We would expect that to continue through the back half of 2014 and then as we have always said all along this thing really starts to cook if we see the commodity prices turnaround.
We’re not forecasting that for the back half of the year but we would expect to see continued benefit year-over-year from our recycling operations for Q3 and Q4.
Understood.
And then on the residential side I think David you mentioned potentially calling some contracts or re-pricing those contracts I’m just curious of what’s your sense on the competitive environment for the residential business and maybe the appetite for some of your smaller peers to be bigger in this business has that changed at all over the last couple of quarters? I’m not sure that has changed dramatically.
Look we’re always going to be the higher priced provider in the residential line of business.
I can give you a perfect example of sort of a service price dynamic.
We had a contract that we lost in Pennsylvania.
We lost it clearly on price.
And the contract went away.
And what the municipality found out is that that they had dramatic service issues with the new provider.
They came back to us and then they said we need you to taking this contract back.
We said we will take it back but it’s going to be at our price.
And they said that’s perfect and then we said that’s great don’t worry we will handle it from here.
So it just goes to show that when you look at residential business service matters.
And when we look at the residential line of business we’re not looking to win every bid.
What we’re looking to do is to renew our current contracts at that current or higher rate because of the service that we provide and the partnership that we have with our communities for many-many years.
Just a couple of clarifying questions from the responses earlier someone asked earlier about the 5.1% growth in MSW pricing.
Is that including all of your MSW volumes so that includes your long-term contractual stuff which suggests that you are pricing on the gate rate of significantly higher than 5.1%?  That’s right.
That’s exactly right.
So can you just help us to -- a little bit so like what percent of the overall volume are you able to raise price at any given year and what is the increase at the gate rate? Yes.
Given that those contracts are generally 3 to 5 years you are seeing sort of anywhere from 20% to 30% of the volume that we can affect.
And now remember that 5.1%.
I don’t want you all to think that that’s across the board 5.1%.
There is some mix in there right because all that is doing is taking a look at same-store sales but there is absolutely no doubt.
The folks sitting around this table are looking at landfill pricing every month and every quarter and making sure that we are touching the customers that we can touch.
As we mentioned we get 90% of our landfill customers in the first half of the year.
The other 10% it’s not that we let them slide on pricing.
It’s that they are either event work or they have contracts that prevent us from doing it.
And so we’re going to take the same approach on landfill pricing that we took on the residential pricing which is we are going to move that price up and it may end up costing us some volume.
But when you look at the overall competitive effect on our overall business both collection and landfill driving that landfill price up is positive for the entire business.
Yes.
And you talked about the various impacts on volume you haven’t kind of called that one out does that suggest that you’re not seeing a substantial volume impact from the higher landfill pricing? Yes so far it has been actually I would say the landfill pricing environment has been probably as good or better than the environment on the collection side right because as we have seen our pricing increases we have not seen a dramatic loss of volume we are hoping that will continue.
Obviously look we can’t do anything other than what we can do.
But the price environment has been fairly stable there.
This is Jim.
As part of our answer honestly to our volume decline on the collection side is to raise prices on landfill side.
We have talked about it a lot but that is a critical component and we’re not -- I wouldn’t say we are happy with the volume decline on the collection side.
But we’re pleased with what we are seeing on the landfill side.
But pricing is critically important at those landfills to help us with our volume decline collection wise as is customer service.
But when you look at collection pricing and I know your question was about landfill pricing but they are in a related we are just simply not going to turn the coin over that price volume coin that’s on the price side right now we’ll be smart about it and -- but we’re not going to turn that coin over because it’s detrimental to our results.
Got it and then I had a follow-up question on the Wheelabrator proceeds.
So by my calculation you are still around 3 times levered even without paying down anymore debt after you lose the $220 million in EBITDA.
So how should we think about how much you are going to deploy into paying down debt immediately versus how much cash you will sit on for potential acquisition? Well I think you’re probably looking at where we were at the end of the quarter and we were a bit low there kind of artificially low with respect to leverage at the end of the quarter the reason for that is that because we hadn’t had any share repurchase year-to-date we ended up using that to pay down our revolver.
So a more normalized leverage ratio for us is 3% than as a consequence when you do divest that $220 million worth of EBITDA.
Our calculation is we probably need about 400 million in debt pay down in order to maintain that leverage neutrality.
Thanks for that clarification.
Nicolaus</strong>  If we could get a little clarity sense of when you think the timing is for Wheelabrator? It’s a bit hard to predict because it’s a function of FERC approval and that really is the biggest time controllable hurdle at this point.
But in talking through this with ECP we believe it’s somewhere within kind of three to five months probably closer to three to four.
Nicolaus</strong> So would you share with us then the year-to-date EBITDA so inclined to pull it out of a model and model the business without it? What am I am I look at year-to-date at EBITDA? Well on an annual basis the EBITDA as we said is about 220 million and really there is not a heck of lot of seasonality there was a little bit more this year because of the real cold winter.
But typically the volume is pretty static the price fluctuates a bit with your stronger electricity pricing quarters being Q1 and Q4.
But I’d straight line it for your analysis.
Nicolaus</strong> So can you help me with the 220 because if you I take the 10-K data add back the charge it gets to 171 million? So what’s the difference between 171 and 220? I’d have to look at that Mike.
Nicolaus</strong> And then was this shopped or was this is a privately-negotiated transaction? What was the question again? Nicolaus</strong> Was it shopped was the deal -- was this is a fully marketed? While we didn’t do a per se a process on it but we had interest from at least one other company where they actually send a non-binding letter of intent to us.
And we went through quite a bit of work with them and came up with a number that was a fair amount lower than the 1.94.
And then of course last year we -- probably no secrets to anyone but we had conversations with Covanta at that point as well.
So I would say that that’s why I wasn’t formally a process pretty close.
Nicolaus</strong> And then if could talk about the pricing environment when you think about the 5% number you have used around the landfill side or the 3 plus in the collection.
How would you frame the per cent rollback trend at this point? Is it worsening stable or getting better.
And I ask you in the context of volumes have been on a reasonably good positive trend the market volumes.
And how is that flow seeing sort of rollbacks? Yes.
We had a big jump up in rollbacks in 2012 since that time we basically held our rollbacks below 20% and you saw the same thing this quarter.
So I would say from a rollback perspective what you’re seeing is very much stability.
When you’re turning something around you see a very low number we turned it around literally on a dime and when you see someone turn something around that fast you wonder is it sustainable? And what we found on the rollback side that is sustainable and so I’d expect that to continue at below 20% into the future.
Nicolaus</strong> And your churn rates are running at about 11.5%? Yes the churn rate obviously it’s affected by the national account loss.
But if you take out the national account loss you’re looking at sort of 10% to 11% type churn.
Nicolaus</strong> And then are you at this juncture and it would appear you’re not replacing a 100% of your churn you are replacing much of it but not all of it.
Is that an accurate observation? That’s correct.
Nicolaus</strong> If you were to replace 100% of the churn and probably would drive rollbacks that’s wide math effectively.
No I think that’s right.
Nicolaus</strong> And then on the landfill I just want to make sure I understood correctly on the landfill the pricing issue this is revisiting a strategy on collection be aggressive of our price now let's bring a strategy to landfill let's be aggressive on price and that's a newer initiative beginning about now? Did I understand that correctly? Yes I mean we’ve always known that the landfill pricing is one of the keys to a long-term pricing program on the collection line of business.
As I’ve said before when you are going through the worst economic recession that you had at least in our lifetimes and you are losing volumes fairly faster but the landfill is a little hard to go in and drive a pricing program.
As we have seen the economy recovers we’ve seen the volumes come back.
It’s a little easier to be more aggressive with the landfill.
And we have done just that and we would expect that to continue.
Nicolaus</strong> So this is a great way to force discipline into the market to the independents.
Have you seen any evidence that that is also helping your churn and your rollbacks that you are forcing them to absorb the single biggest costs they have? I would say we certainly haven’t seen any ripple of that from pricing throughout the market.
Those small competitors in the regional even the national competitors that might not be integrated in the market there is always going to be a healthy amount of competition in every markets we serve.
So I’m not sure that that if they can have that dramatic an effect but to the extent that it will have an effect over time it will be over time.
We are certainly not seeing any effect currently.
Just a quick follow-up on the front-end load side is it overly optimistic to expect some margin lift here from increased contribution? Are we simply just at a point in the recovery where we can't do that? Are you talking about related to the transaction? No on the commercial side in terms of collection volumes? Yes.
We have to get better with our system.
It’s what I talked about earlier that the big leverage that we’ve got in our business is really on the commercial side because the density the route density makes such a difference in there that you do have to look at from a contribution margin point of view.
So as we look at our business what we are going to try to do is look at those lines of business where we can pick up volume without affecting the market place and then we’re also going to look to start adding some density into our commercial wraps.
Now again we are not going to do it in such a manner to upset the competitive dynamics in any particular market.
So it’s going to take a period of time.
Certainly as we see the economy improve and as we see the commercial business get better across the country that will give us more of an opportunity to go and take our fair share of the growth.
We’re not looking to grab market share here.
What we’re looking to do is to get our fair share of the growth.
So as you start to see those volumes grow you should see our volumes in the commercial line get better.
That's helpful.
And then in terms of the overall recovery is it possible to see better commercial volume without housing? Are the two simply tied together such that you couldn't get better volume there?  Yes look long-term.
I have always said that what you’ve got going on in the economic recovery is you got housing starts for the first 18 months we’re sort of what I call it tuck-in housing.
There was not a lot of new developments going up.
It was tear downs and rebuilding houses.
What you see in last 18 months you started to see some big take downs of large property [swaps] and you’ve seen new development particularly in places like Texas Florida California you are starting to see new housing development.
What comes along with housing development is commercial business the new gas station the new restaurant the new gas the new grocery store and so.
You absolutely need to see a sustained housing recovery to see a robust commercial volume recovery.
I think we’re on -- you all see just like I do.
The housing starts number are sort of going in fits and starts over the last year.
But I would say that as we go around and talk to our market the trajectory is clearly up.
You’re starting to see more and more housing developments you’re starting to see more and more businesses that might have gone out of business during the downturn reopened.
And so I would expect that throughout 2014 and particularly in the 2015 you should see those commercial volumes grow.
Again it’s not going to be everywhere.
This is a geographic game for us.
You’re not going to see commercial volumes grow as robust in some places as others.
But in those places where it is growing we want to make sure that we get our fair share growth.
Hi good morning everybody.
You mentioned that national account losses are partially responsible for the acceleration of volume declines past your original guidance.
So are you working through your national account contracts in a similar manner as the rest of your business from a pricing perspective? And secondly are these contract losses also affecting your recycling volumes? Yes.
They are not so much affecting our recycling volumes but they are more so affecting just our traditional collection volumes.
But it’s exactly right.
As we look through the national accounts the largest one that we lost was a low single-digit margin contract.
And so we’re treating our national accounts business sort of just like we treated our residential business 6 to 10 years ago which is we’re not going to -- we always say we’re not doing this for practice and we don’t need a lot of practice doing this.
So we’re going to make sure that we get a fair price on those national account businesses and we’re not going to keep a national account just to maintain volume.
The largest account -- the largest one that we lost again was a low single-digit margin business.
For the full year we expect that we’ll lose about $100 million of annualized revenue of that annualized revenue about two-thirds of it will be very low single-digit margin.
And about two-thirds of it has hit to June 30.
So the pace of that volume loss will accelerate a little bit in the back half of the year but again you won’t see a dramatic earnings hit because it was very low margin business.
I know we've been asking you this about every line of business today but what [inning] are we in the reviews of your national account businesses? Look we know exactly what we want to do in our national account business.
So I would tell you that from a planning point of view we’re in the eighth inning from an execution point of view I would tell you we’re in the third inning.
So there is still a lot of room to manage those contracts we plan to do that over the next few years but we know exactly where we’re going with it.
You mentioned growth in the energy services as sort of the next step.
How much would you say looking five years out will be organic versus acquisitive growth and if there is acquisitive and if there are -- are there any large service Energy Service acquisitions that you have been looking at or are out there? We haven’t been looking any at this point but most of our growth has really come organically we’ve done a few very small acquisitions in our energy services business.
But we do consider part of our core and there was an acquisition out there that looked like it was priced properly.
Thank you.
Clearly we had great performance from our Waste Management employees in the quarter.
As Jim said I think we’d be remised without recognizing our colleagues at Wheelabrator who have done a phenomenal job over the years and we don’t view this as an end of a relationship but as the beginning of another long-term relationship.
We are still going to be the primary provider of volume to the Wheelabrator plant.
So this will be a change in the relationship but it’s been a great relationship and we expect that great relationship to continue.
As we look at the rest of the year as Jim mentioned we’ve got FERC approval which could take anywhere from three to five months.
The good news with that is that it gives us three to five months to really develop a plan on what we’re going to do with the proceeds from the divestiture.
So I would expect that at the end of the third quarter we’ll have a fairly well defined plan that we can talk to you all about how we’re going to split those proceeds between purchasing tuck-in type of businesses and doing share repurchases.
All of which we think is going to be a very positive driver for us at the end of 2014 and driving into 2015.
So once again we look forward to the future and we’ll talk to you all end of the third quarter.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!  Good morning I would like to welcome everyone to the Waste Management Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions) Thank you Mr.
Egl you may begin your conference.
Thank you Rashay.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are David Steiner President and Chief Executive Officer Jim Fish Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Trevathan Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before we get started please note that we have filed a Form 8-K this morning that includes the earnings press release and is available on our Web site at www.wm.com.
The Form 8-K the press release and the schedule for the press release include important information.
During the call you will hear forward-looking statements which are based on current expectations projections or opinions about future periods.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of these risks and uncertainties are discussed in today’s press release in our filings with the SEC including our most recent Form 10-K.
David and Jim will discuss our results in the areas of yield and volume which unless stated otherwise are more specifically references to Internal Revenue Growth or IRG from yield or volume.
Additionally any comparisons unless otherwise stated will be with the third quarter of 2013.
During the call David and Jim will discuss our earnings per diluted share which they may refer to as EPS or Earnings Per Share.
David and Jim will also address operating EBITDA and operating EBITDA margin as defined in the Form 8-K filed today.
EPS income from operations income from operations margin operating EBITDA operating EBITDA margin SG&amp;A and SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue results discussed during the call have been adjusted and EPS projections are anticipated to be adjusted to exclude items that management believes do not reflect the fundamental business performance or not indicative of results of operations.
These measures in addition to free cash flow are non-GAAP measures.
Please refer to the earnings press release footnote and schedules in the Form 8-K filed today which can be found on the Company’s Web site at www.wm.com for reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures and additional information about the use of non-GAAP measures.
This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning approximately 1:00 PM Eastern Time today until 5:00 PM Eastern Time on November 12th.
To hear a replay of the call over the Internet access the Waste Management Web site at www.wm.com.
To hear a telephonic replay of the call dial 855-859-2056 and enter reservation code 8203798.
Time-sensitive information provided on during today’s call which is occurring on October 29 2014 may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Waste Management is prohibited.
Now I will turn the call over to Waste Management’s President and CEO David Steiner.
Thanks Ed and good morning from Houston.
We saw strong results in the third quarter that are a continuation of what we saw through the first six months of the year.
Yield and cost control programs driving strong improvement in our core business.
We saw growth in our income from operations operating EBITDA and margins in both our traditional Solid Waste business and our overall business.
In the third quarter we earned $0.72 per share an increase of over 10% when compared to the third quarter of 2013.
When we started the year we had high expectations for our performance and through the first nine months we have met all of our expectations.
Our employees have executed their business plans exceptionally well this year and we recently took additional steps to align the corporate functions to the needs of the field to further drive performance.
This should service-well as we begin to look forward to 2015.
Jim will discuss the financial benefits of our corporate realignment but I’d like to touch on the strategic implications.
We realized that growth and everything else in our business occurs on the frontlines with support and oversight from our corporate teams.
So our reorganization ensures that our corporate and field teams are aligned and working together and focuses our field and corporate resources to drive performance.
Our corporate teams will work with the field to improve operations in our business by targeting volumes that support our yield focus and reducing costs.
The corporate and field teams will have joint accountability in achieving these goals.
We think of this is an expansion of the 2012 reorganization where one of the main outcomes was a more direct line of sight from corporate to the field.
Turning to our Waste Energy business Jim will give you more detail on the results of operations but I wanted to give you an update on the sale and use of proceeds.
The transaction is progressing as we anticipated.
We should receive Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approval and close on the transaction at the end of this year or early in 2015.
Regarding the use of proceeds our philosophy has not changed.
We would prefer to replace the $220 million of divested operating EBITDA at attractive multiples.
As we recently announced we entered into an agreement to acquire Deffenbaugh Disposal which will enable us to replace a portion of that operating EBITDA.
Our agreement limits what we can say now but once the transaction closes we will provide additional financial details.
We are certainly excited about the deal because Deffenbaugh is a very well-run company with both collection and disposal assets and with an excellent market position in Kansas City where we currently have virtually no presence.
This transaction is subject to Hart-Scott-Rodino Act and is expected to close later this year or in the first quarter of 2015.
We’re still looking at other potential targets but if we do not find assets at reasonable prices we use the proceeds to repurchase our stock and maintain leverage neutrality.
If we do purchase shares we would likely begin at the end of the first quarter of 2015 after the exploration of our current accelerated share repurchase program.
Returning to our third quarter results our yield program continues to be a significant driver of our margin expansion.
For the third quarter our collection and disposal yield was 2.3% which is the sixth consecutive quarter of yield above 2%.
Our core pricing remains solid at 3.8%.
When compared to the third quarter of 2013 same-store average rates in the commercial line of business increased 5.2% industrial increased 4% and we saw a 2.5% increase in our residential line.
This has had some effect on volumes particularly with regard to lower margin national accounts and residential contracts but we continue to see the trade-off as positive as the operating margin in our traditional Solid Waste business was up 60 basis points.
Volumes in the third quarter were a negative 1.3% which is an improvement of 10 basis points from the second quarter and the third consecutive quarter of sequential improvement.
About 100 basis points of the 130 basis points decline came from lost low margin national accounts.
In the third quarter we once again saw positive Landfill and transportation volumes more than offset by declines in the collection lines of business.
Despite negative volumes the Company’s income from operations grew more than 3% and our income from operations margin grew 60 basis points.
In addition operating EBITDA increased and operating EBITDA margins increased 30 basis points to 26.6%.
Our recycling operations also performed better in the quarter despite an average OCC commodity price decline of 17.1% reflecting our continued focus on enforcement of restrictions on contaminated loads and modifications to customer rebate structures.
We’ve seen three successive strong quarters in 2014 and we expect the strength to continue into the fourth quarter and into 2015.
We are confident that we can meet or exceed the analyst consensus of $0.60 of adjusted earnings per diluted share for the fourth quarter.
A $0.60 fourth quarter would lead to full year adjusted earnings per diluted share of $2.41 $0.06 above the high-end of our previous range.
Cash flow has also been strong through the first three quarters and we expect that we will also exceed the 1.5 billion high-end of our free cash flow guidance.
As we did last year we may look at ways to invest some of this excess cash flow by pulling forward some 2015 spending into 2014.
In summary we’re very pleased with the results so far in 2014 and expect that momentum to continue into 2015.
We will be judicious with our use of proceeds from our Wheelabrator divestiture as we look to replace $220 million of operating EBITDA using the proceeds to create long-term shareholder value and not merely to create short-term earnings.
This will likely have a negative effect on earnings and cash flow in the first half of 2015 as we look to offset the loss of $0.18 of EPS and $120 million in cash flow from the divestiture of Wheelabrator.
Given the timing of the transaction it’s unlikely that we would close on the purchase of new businesses or shares before the end of the first quarter of 2015.
So we would not replace the $0.05 of earnings that Wheelabrator produced in the first quarter of 2014.
However with respect to our core Solid Waste operations excluding Wheelabrator we will continue to drive margin expansion and double-digit earnings growth and we will invest the Wheelabrator proceeds so that we can continue that growth well into the future.
I’ll now turn the call over to Jim to discuss our third quarter results and the reorganization of corporate SG&amp;A in more detail.
Thanks David.
I’ll start by discussing our SG&amp;A which improved $3 million to $346 million when compared to the third quarter of 2013.
We have a goal to SG&amp;A cost as a percent of revenue being below 10% and for the second consecutive quarter we achieved this goal.
SG&amp;A cost as a percent of revenue were 9.6% in the third quarter.
During the quarter we took steps that are intended to better align our corporate leadership staff cost with the need of the field operations which resulted in approximately 650 positions being eliminated and a restructuring charge of $0.09 per diluted share in the third quarter.
This is a natural progression from the 2012 restructuring of our field organization which focused on more directly aligning our corporate and field leadership with the elimination of the geographic group functions and empowering our customer facing employees.
The anticipated saving in excess of $100 million annually from these actions implemented in 2015 but the main reason for this action is to better align and thus strengthen our corporate and field teams to execute our strategy.
We will see the full run rate benefit of labor savings starting in the first quarter of 2015 while the non-labor savings about 20% of the total savings should be realized throughout 2015.
We plan to be at the full run rate of our savings as we start 2016.
Turning to our third quarter results our revenue declined 0.5% or $19 million to $3.6 billion.
The price volume trade-off continues to generate positive results.
However the divestitures of our operations in Puerto Rico and a portion of Eastern Canada and a negative foreign currency translation led to a negative revenue comparison in the third quarter.
The divestitures affected revenue by $24 million and the foreign exchange impact on revenue was approximately $12 million.
We were pleased with the improvement in our major operating cost lines.
Operating cost as a percent of revenue improved 40 basis points to 63.8% and approved $26 million in the third quarter despite a negative $5 million impact from the accounting effect of lower 10 year treasury rates on our environmental remediation reserves.
The operating cost improvement was primarily driven by improvements in both our Solid Waste and Recycling operations.
On the Solid Waste side we were able to fix labor cost down as our volumes declined.
In the Recycling we saw the benefit of continued focus on enforcement restrictions on contaminated loads and modifications to customer rebate structures.
Turning to cash flow for the third quarter we generated $418 million of free cash flow which is very strong but down slightly when compared to 2013.
The difference was driven by an increase of $58 million in cash taxes due mostly to the exploration of bonus depreciation and the repatriation of earnings from the divestiture of our operations in Puerto Rico.
Our capital expenses for the quarter were $307 million a decrease of $16 million from the third quarter of 2013.
We also had $53 million in the divestiture proceeds primarily from the sale of certain assets in our Eastern Canada markets in the quarter.
Year-to-date 2014 we’ve generated $1.3 billion in total free cash flow and $1.03 billion excluding divestiture proceeds.
This is the highest free cash flow we’ve generated through the first nine months of year since 2007.
It puts us on-track to exceed the upper-end of our full year free cash flow forecast goal of between $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion.
Looking at internal revenue growth for the total company in the third quarter our collection in disposal yield was 2.3% with volumes declining 1.3%.
This led total company income from operations growing $20 million operating income margin expanding 60 basis points operating EBITDA growing $5 million and operating EBITDA margin growing 30 basis points.
Our collection lines of business continue to see the benefit of the yield volume trade-off.
Our commercial yield increased 50 basis points sequentially to 4.7%.
Our industrial yield was 3.5% and residential was 1.4%.
Overall collection yield was 3.2% with volumes declining 3.6%.
The volume change was a 50 basis point improvement from the second quarter and as David mentioned most of our volume loss was related to the low margin the loss of low margin national account business.
This yield and volume led to income from operations growing $3 million and margin expanding 60 basis points.
The industrial line of business including Energy Services drove the growth in income from operations.
In the Landfill line of business we saw the benefits of both positive volume and positive yield in the third quarter just as we have all year.
Total Landfill volumes increased 4.2%.
Combined Special Waste and revenue generating cover volumes were positive 4.4% MSW volumes grew 5.7% and CMB volumes grew 15.3%.
MSW yield rose to 1.6%.
This led to income from operations growing $16 million which is the sixth consecutive quarter of growth and margins grew 130 basis points.
Our Waste Energy operations were essentially flat in the third quarter when compared to the third quarter of 2013.
Since we moved the business to asset-held-for-sale status the suspension of the depreciation expense added $0.01 per share.
The sale is progressing as we anticipated.
We still believe we’re on-track to close the transaction in late fourth quarter or early first quarter.
David already discussed the use of proceeds but I want to reiterate that we’ll be disciplined with the use of that cash to create long-term shareholder value.
Finally looking at our other financial metrics at the end of the third quarter our weighted average cost of debt was 4.92% and the floating rate portion of our total debt was 16% at the end of the quarter.
The effective tax rate was 32.1% compared to 34.3% in the third quarter of 2013.
The rate was lower than our expected rate of 35% due primarily to state audit settlements and adjustments to our accruals and related deferred taxes resulting from the filing of our 2013 returns.
This benefited the quarter by approximately $0.03 per diluted share.
We expect our tax rate to be approximately 35% for the fourth quarter.
The results through the first nine months of the year put us on-track to exceed our full year targets.
We are looking forward to the continued improvement in the fourth quarter and throughout 2015 now augmented by our recent corporate actions.
And as always I want to thank our employees for their hard work.
They’ve made the first nine months of 2014 very successful.
And with that Rashay let’s open the line for questions.
First of all I appreciate all the detail in the script about the Wheelabrator impact and the timing and the cost savings.
My first question I know it is early to be talking about 2015 but can you just give us some sense of how you're thinking about the price volume environment going into 2015? Do you expect assuming economic conditions remain stable kind of a similar trend in 2015 as we are seeing in 2014?  Yes it’s a great question Corey.
When we look at 2015 I think everybody recognizes what we have done with our yield program over the years.
As I think everybody knows in 2013 we had a very strong incentive plan to drive yield above 2%.
In 2015 we are likely to go back to where we were from 2007 to 2010 where we have what we call the pricing gate.
So that folks have a substantial portion of their bonus at risk if they don’t get their pricing targets.
And there is one think I can tell you is that our pricing target will be over 2% for 2015.
With respect to volumes it’s a little early to call but I would say Corey that the trends look this is not going to change overnight.
I think what you have seen during 2013 is a very slow progression towards that volumes for us I don’t expect that to dramatically change but the signs that we are seeing from a volume point of view are positive than we have seen frankly in the last three years or four years.
And so I would expect the volumes to continue to improve but I wouldn’t expect to see them turn positive at least in early 2015.
Okay and given what you are seeing now in price you sound relatively -- I know David knowing you that you are never going to be totally happy with this but it sounds like you are generally happy with where the yield is.
Why you are thinking about putting the pricing gate back in place and what you expect to be different when you do that?  Yes look you are absolutely right Corey we can always do better on the other hand as you well know that 2% 2.3% yield can translate into 8% to 10% price increases across certain customer bases because we have some restricted customers.
But look I think everybody knows that the one year in recent memory that we sort of fell off on yield was 2012 and we said that’s not going to happen again.
Now we have a lot of confidence in our field managers doing the right thing.
And we have a lot of oversight of our field managers to make sure they do the right thing but I have always been a believer that you need to support those price programs with some type of carrot or stick.
In 2012 we didn’t do that we saw what happened.
We had a great carrot for the last two years folks are going to do very well by getting their pricing targets.
Next year we are going to go back to a little bit more of if you will of a stick.
I would say Corey I am not concerned about these folks not getting their core price targets but having those guardrails in place through the incentive plans supports the program.
And just one more left quickly if you're willing to talk about this.
In 2015 with all the moving pieces between Wheelabrator and potentially charges and the cost savings and the bonus depreciation can you just give us a directional sense of where you expect free cash flow to go in 2015 whether you expect it is going to be up from 2014?  Yes Corey I guess the way we’d talk about 2015 at this point because you are exactly right there is so many moving pieces what are we going to do with the divestiture proceeds and when is the divestiture going to close.
And so when we look at it we say okay we have got $0.18 of EPS and $120 million of free cash flow that assuming Wheelabrator would it be gone on January 1st that’s going to be gone in 2015.
So what we are doing right now as we are saying let’s make sure we do the right thing with the proceed but then let’s take a real good look at the core Solid Waste business and make sure that what we are doing in the core Solid Waste business is driving that double-digit earnings growth and driving free cash flow growth.
So you should absolutely see free cash flow growth in the core Solid Waste business next year.
Obviously you would see that much stronger if we saw bonus depreciation for 2015.
I want to focus on the volume topic here.
We just posted another 1.3% decline.
You have arguably have anniversaried the pricing story.
What fundamentally is not going on in the end markets -- in your end markets -- that that volume can't get closer to positive sooner than exiting 2015?  Yes well let’s look at the various lines of business.
Obviously let’s start at the Landfill.
The Landfill volumes have been positive for quite some time and we would expect those to continue to be positive in 2015.
Those volumes are highest margin and have a great return on capital so if we’re going to have volumes growing anywhere that’s where we want them going is at the Landfill and we have seen that in the last two years we expect to see that into 2015.
On the collection side you have got the Residential line of business which generally is our lowest margin lowest return on capital and we’ve been pretty judicious in not bidding those residential contracts particularly because they take so much capital not bidding those residential contracts at a lower margin.
So you’d expect to see volumes down there.
On the commercial side that’s -- and so my point is that on the residential side look would we love to have more volumes on the residential side? Yes.
Are we going to get more volumes by dropping price and lower margins just to get volumes? Absolutely not when you look at the industrial side the industrial side actually started to turn fairly well for us I would not be surprised to see the industrial volumes turn positive in 2015 and again those are great margin great return on capital volumes.
So the only area where I’d say I’d like to do a little bit better is on the commercial side.
As you all know when you get commercial volumes you can get great incremental margins because of the route density that you create with commercial volumes but again we’re not going to go out and get commercial volumes by giving up price.
And so to see those commercial volumes we’ve seen sequential improvement all year and that’s a good thing to see those commercial volumes turn you’ve got to get sort of sustained housing starts and sustained new business starts.
We have started to see that in 2013 I’d expect to see that continue in 2015 but again we’re not just going to go out and throw a bunch of sales on the street and drop pricing to get new commercial volumes because if we do that as the largest in the business that’s going to have a dramatic effect on our pricing program it’s what I said in the script.
We’re going to go after volumes that don’t have a dramatic effect on our yield program.
There is a lot of great volumes we can get at the Landfill and Energy Services on the industrial side that are going to be high margin volumes for us we don’t need to go after low margin commercial business by dropping price or low margin residential business by dropping price and so we view that price volume trade-off as very positive we expect to see it continue to improve in 2015 and that’s what’s going to drive margin expansion for us.
Al I might give a little additional color too to what David said about the industrial line of business that as I mentioned in my script that’s the line of business that shows a lot of the energy services impact it happens to be one of the few areas in the overall economy where we feel like we have really good long-term visibility even with declining oil prices we happen to be in our strongest presence in energy services is in basins where the production cost for the E&amp;P companies happens to be the lowest so we’ll be in the last to feel the downturn there.
But we like the prospects for energy services it’s been growing at -- revenue has been growing at about a 20% clip.
We are going to be on-track to be 225-250 in revenue this year and we think we can continue to grow that at a fast pace.
Thank you for the color Jim.
Is there any additional update on the M&amp;A environment as it relates to that particular secular change?  Yes there is always assets for sale because the multiples are fairly high as you know we did a couple of transactions in that field fairly small transactions but that would be that would absolutely be one of the places where we would look to invest some of the proceeds but again whether it’s energy services or hazardous waste or core solid waste we’re not going to overpay for the business just to use the proceeds right.
The way we look at it AL is we have got sort of a base case of buy back shares and leverage neutrality that would be slightly accretive with the use of proceeds.
If we can do better than that by investing in businesses we’ll absolutely do it but we’re not going to invest in businesses where we have to pay a higher multiple than our own stock I mean the reality is we’ve two choices buy our company or buy another company and we would never buy another company at a higher multiple than we can buy our company.
So we’re going to be fairly judicious in how we look at these acquisitions and if they occur that’s great if they don’t occur we still think we can buy our stock pretty cheap.
Okay thank you.
And then finally if I may just a follow-up on the pricing story or the pricing gate I don't understand maybe if there is a -- it comes across that there is a change in how you're going to approach the market.
Maybe that is a misinterpretation or understanding on my part but why are you altering at least the cadence on pricing here or reinstalling for lack of better word a pricing gate?  Yes no offense Al but I think that is a misunderstanding with where we’re going with the pricing program.
That's fair.
Clarify it for us David.
Thank you.
Look I would say it’s I think everybody on this phone and certainly everybody at Waste Management would say that the pricing programs are my sort of core focus right and again look I have total confidence that our field managers are going to do the right thing and I have total confidence that that the staff here at the corporate office are going to ensure they do the right thing but anytime you have something that’s that important like our pricing programs you have got to have everything in your company directed to making it happen.
And so having confidence in the field managers is great but that’s not everything we can do having confidence at the corporate teams are going to support them is great but that’s not everything we can do.
You got to have the compensation programs aligned also.
And that’s really what it’s all about and say look the yield program is the most important thing that we do at Waste Management.
So everything we do from the compensation programs to the oversight to the field managers everything we do is going to be structured to ensure that we drive that yield above CPI and above 2%.
So it’s really just if you will an insurance policy to make sure that everybody understands that this is going to be the most important thing that we do.
Now having said that we do want to improve our volumes but we don’t want to improve our volumes at the price of reducing our yield focus that’s what happened in 2012.
We said look we want to get volumes and we went out and got some low margin volumes and some lines of business that affected our yield programs but also got us positive volumes at low margins.
We are not going to do that again.
Where we’re going to look for volumes our places where we can get good high margin volumes but not have those volumes create a competitive dynamic in our markets such that the market says wow they’re going to lower price in order to get volumes and we think there is plenty of places where we can do that in the manufacturing and industrial sector in the energy services sector.
We can go after good high margin volumes without affecting pricing for example at the commercial line.
Could you just give us an update on the progress of some of the various cost initiatives you have had over the last couple of years? I'm just trying to see going forward how much more we should still expect in cost savings from those programs outside of the $100 million you announced today.
So a couple of different approaches here one is operating cost where we felt like we made a lot of improvement on operating cost both on recycling and on core operations and we will continue to work those cost down Jim and Puneet Bhasin and their teams are spending a tremendous amount of time in the field as developing some real efficient operations.
And really on the recycling fronts it is no state secrete here that commodity prices have not been good to us over the last two years.
So we’ve had to approach it -- I guess the good news is there that it’s forced us to approach it from a cost standpoint.
We’ve done that we saw a bit of improvement year-over-year in Q3 and so once commodity prices do return to a more normalized levels we think we’re in a great position in the recycling line of business.
SG&amp;A costs yes we took about $100 million the long-term run rate will be about $100 million about 80% of that is labor 20% non-labor.
The labor piece will come out in kind of -- about 10 million of it will come out in Q4 and we’ll be pretty much done with that labor piece in Q1 of 2015.
Then the non-labor has a bit longer tail to it but that will all come out by second half -- for the most part it will be all out by the end of Q2 of next year for a total of 100 million impact overall.
Is there additional SG&amp;A savings out there we’re always looking but I think what we’ve done in 2012 predominantly consolidation in the field and then in 2014 with more closely aligning our SG&amp;A to fill our strategy.
I think you probably see at this point going forward trying to just hold labor cost flat.
Jim I might add for Adam’s benefit.
Adam on the collection side of the business we now are on about 25% of our collection companies that we are certified.
They have the technology the onboard computer in place.
They also have the culture and the accountability process and the dollar improvement to their P&amp;L that’s hitting the bottom-line and you saw that in that 60 basis points improvement in operating margin.
We’re progressing through the 400 or so collection companies and should complete that effort in next year.
So you’ll continue to see that improvement in OpEx as a percentage of net revenue as we rollout not just the technology but the culture of the accountability and get the dollar value out that initiative.
Okay great.
So what kind of run rate are we at for some of the other programs you have announced in the past such as the routing and logistics and the back-office stuff? Is that sort of what you just spoke about that that is still a work in progress or are we at that full run rate?  Well Adam that’s what I just mentioned Jim Trevathan again.
We are at about a 20%-25% of the 400 collection companies but the others are in the process of implementation.
We are not starting them all fresh and new as we finish the one that process is underway and going on at the other 75%-80% of the location.
So it is a process that about a year we think a year or so left in the implementation process.
Also on the lines of David’s conversation about bonus and pricing a big component of our bonus the field’s bonus is tied to a huge component and a half of it is tied to operating cost.
So there is certainly carrot out for them if they improve on operating cost we saw as we mentioned the 30 basis point swing this quarter which we were pleased with but don’t feel like we are done.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And then just on the acquisition side have you seen seller expectations on the solid waste side come down at all over the last few months or so or is it still pretty high?  Yes I would say that you really haven’t seen it comedown.
But again look I feel about that sort of how I feel about the economy nothing we can do about it but we are going to take a particular approach to it.
And the approach we are going to take is that when we are buying core solid waste type of operations we know those operations very well we know exactly what we can do with them when we tuck them into our operations what cost synergies we can get.
And so we can get a real good idea of what that company is going to look like once we bring it into our company and integrate it.
And again there is one business but I know better than any business we can buy and that’s ours.
And so it basically comes down to a pretty simple fact why would I pay anymore than our current multiple frankly I can’t imagine we would pay our multiple.
We would pay substantially less than our multiple for any business that we don’t know as well as ours.
And so when it comes to acquisitions is seller expectations are too high we have certainly proven in the past that we are willing to walk away from those.
But I think there is going to plenty of targets out there that we can look at where we can get that great post-integration synergy that we can hopefully replace some or all of that $220 million of Wheelabrator EBITDA.
So on the volume side I think you mentioned I don't know if it was Jim 15% growth in construction and demolition.
I was hoping maybe a little bit more color regarding the outlook for C&amp;D also special waste the pipeline there and maybe some additional thoughts on coal ash and how that opportunity is potentially progressing?  Sure.
Keep in mind when we talk about C&amp;D it’s a small percentage of our overall revenue we increased it substantially in percentage terms 15.2% but it is still as an overall small piece.
However we like the direction a lot of that came from parts of the South where we are seeing heavy construction Florida and Texas to name a couple.
So we think that’s -- to the extent that this housing recovery and the recovery in general are intact and don’t start to retrace their steps.
We think C&amp;D will continue to show nice improvements year-over-year.
Special wastes is for us is a bigger category it includes energy services it includes manufacturing and industrial type waste we feel very good about that so we feel like the various entry in that line of business are higher than they would in a business like commercial it’s tougher to get into next on an ExxonMobil refinery if you are not already in there and we have been in there for 30 years than it is to get into a small restaurant.
So we like the special waste category and that is a real growth opportunity for us going forward.
I can’t say exactly what the expectation is for the whole waste stream in terms of percentage growth in 2015.
But I will tell you that that as I mentioned earlier energy services which is a component of that will continue to grow nicely at 20 plus percent over the next several years.
And then coal ash the promulgation of coal ash regulation is coming out here in December hard to say exactly what that will mean to us but we have had a number of conversations with big public utilities that they are starting to take aggressive steps to remediate and ultimately they like working with big companies like Waste Management so we feel good about the cool ash opportunity.
There really are going to be a couple of different approaches that those utilities might take.
One would be moving coal ash to a Landfill we think it will be subtitle D and subtitle C.
Second would be asking somebody to come in and actually manage and operate their Landfills for them a lot of them have onsite Landfills and then the third would be some type of beneficial reuse clearly that would be their preference and we can help them with all three.
So we like the opportunities across the special waste stream.
Jim I might also add for Scott’s benefit on the hazardous waste side we have got facilities that really support our industrial DM&amp;I sector we have added to the rail capability we have got projects getting to move here in the fourth quarter by rail into a couple of our hazardous waste sites and that is an advantage that we offer to our customers.
And then one other thing on the volume side before turning to price I think you mentioned that you are still seeing 100 basis point drag to reported volume from lost national accounts.
Can you remind us how that headwind when might that taper off and maybe just your thoughts on the national account business in general at this point in time? Yes it should taper off sort of midyear next year and when we think about the national accounts frankly we think about them by splitting them depending on what kind of container they have out back right.
So if you have a compactor out in back we can’t create a lot of route density and so we’ve got to look at that sort of on a standalone basis right and we are not going to bid those large compactor accounts at a low margin.
When you look at front-end container national accounts you can create a lot of route density and so the ability to make good money on those is a little bit higher because you can the incremental cost to service them is much lower than servicing a compactor customer.
And so when we look at our national accounts we’re not going to bid anything at a low margin but we would be willing to accept a lower margin on a front-end customer than we would on a compactor customer because we get such benefits out of the route densification.
Dave one other point that for national account customers that we see real clear differentiation again are those manufacturing and industrial national accounts where our service offering whether it’s solid waste business or special waste or hazardous waste add real value add to it our balance sheet and those guys like us and we expect to grow in that sector.
One last one on pricing just very quickly if you could remind us how much CPI linked pricing business is a percentage of your total revenue and where CPI was running right now would you think that would be a headwind or a tailwind into 2015 if current trends remain constant? Yes we’re sure looking for the day when CPI becomes a tailwind for us instead of a headwind right.
About 40% of our business is CPI-linked and when we say CPI-linked remember that that can be all over the Board it can be 100% of CPI can be some kind of localized CPI it can be a percentage of CPI but when we look forward I’d tell you we aren’t going to build our yield programs around CPI it always amazes me that folks say well we would have gotten excellent yields if it wasn’t for CPI we take a little bit of a different approach.
We say we’re going to get x dollars of price despite CPI and so when we look at our pricing programs we say how many dollars are we going to get out of our pricing program to drop to the bottom-line if get 0% from CPI we’re going to find those dollars somewhere else.
And so you’ll never hear us sort of say that CPI is a drag on yield look that is the fact of life what we get paid to do is to drop certain amount of dollars to the bottom-line and if we can get those dollars from CPI that’s great but if we can’t get those dollars from CPI we’re going to get those dollars somewhere else.
Jim Fish a little housekeeping first.
Fourth quarter what is the starting share count in the fourth quarter because if I read everything correctly you have spent $600 million and bought back stock in 3Q.
What is my starting share count? I think it’s 463 million.
Okay and -- sorry say again.
I will verify that but I think it’s 463 million.
And is there a plan to buy back more in the 4Q or you did it you did the $600 million and then --? No plan to buyback more in the fourth quarter we’ve the $600 million ASR which 70% of it took place at the initiation of that so no plans outside of that $600 million ASR.
And then you made a comment I think it was in your prepared remarks around D&amp;A and about Wheelabrator and I think that then explains what my question was going to be that D&amp;A was down yet your Landfill volume was up so that is Wheelabrator as a percent of revenues.
So what is the trend line is it 9.1 is the way to think about it? 9.1 on I would say that that’s hard to say but think that’s probably about right.
Okay.
Alright now getting into the meat of this on the price gate David I guess there is some confusion about what a stick means versus a carrot from your perspective so --? There is no confusion out in the field that Michael about what it...
Well so just for our benefit.
The carrot clearly we tease you with a number but the stick in this case is it an all or nothing meaning if everybody wins or everybody loses or is it very individual? Yes the way we’ve looked at it Michael is that when you got 17 areas like we’ve got right if 10 of the areas hit their target and 7 of them don’t hit the target and the company doesn’t hit the target guess who doesn’t win the shareholder doesn’t win and we don’t pay our folks including us unless the shareholder wins and so you’ve got to do both out in the field we’ve got to hit it from a corporate point of view and you have got to hit it at the local point of view.
And look the only way our shareholders win is that the -- a shareholder doesn’t care if 10 out 17 hit the target if the company doesn’t get the target.
And so what we’ve always done and said the company has to hit the target and you have to hit the target in order to not be penalized on your bonus.
Okay.
And in the past this has been very focused around collection but you alluded in 2Q about disposal and subsequent public appearances by the company at various forums have talked about it what is the mix between Landfill and collection in that gate? Are you distinguishing the two so that you incentivize both areas of focus?  No we don’t want to overcomplicate the gate right.
And so what we’re doing in 2015 and I think as everybody on the phone knows that our reported yield number is a very good approximation of where we’ve gone with pricing but the real number that we look at is the core price number because that is the measure of how many dollars drop to the bottom-line from pricing remember what core price is.
That is our price increases across all customers minus rollbacks and plus our fees and surcharges as in the fuel surcharge.
And so those are the dollars that drop to the bottom-line.
So when we do it we’re going to do it based on core price because that again it doesn’t matter what our yield is if we don’t drop dollars to the bottom-line.
Our shareholders don’t get rewarded unless we drop dollars to the bottom-line.
So what we’re going to do is we’re going to set a target just like we have over the last few years.
We’re going to set that core price target both at the company and at the local level and that’s the number that we’re going to use as part of the gate.
Michael my guess is that part of your question is related to MSW pricing there and Landfill pricing in general.
If you look at MSW pricing over the last eight quarters where we’ve been in the -- on the yield side we’ve been in the 1% to 2% range.
This quarter was 1.6% and I’m talking about MSW now was 1.6% kind of in the upper-end of that range.
With volume over that same period of time being somewhere between flat and positive 5% the eight quarters prior to that so 2011-2012 yield was between flat and 1% in MSW and volume was between negative 5% and flat.
So we’ve essentially seen a doubling of yield in the MSW line which is what we really look at it most closely when we’re looking at Landfill pricing.
Okay.
Fair enough.
On volume can you talk about your weight per yard trends and also the dollar per yard trends in front-end loader?  Yes the weight per yard is have been fairly steady but we have seen Michael when I talk about the volumes I talk that -- again I don’t expect to see a dramatic turn but I’m much more optimistic that we continue to see progress than have been in the past.
On the commercial side we have seen service increases outpace service decreases for the last three quarters and five out of the last six quarters and then what we’re talking about before commercial volumes follow construction.
So when you see high C&amp;D volumes and you see improving industrial volumes the next step is you’re going to start to see improving commercial volumes I think you have written about this quite a bit and I think you’re absolutely right that I would expect that in 2015 again we’re not going to see a huge dramatic turn but we’re certainly going to see good steady progress on those commercial volumes.
Okay great.
Michael by the way the other thing when I talk about commercial volumes you’ll always hear me talk about commercial volumes.
I think the large companies have to look at this as what we do in commercial volumes especially entire market and so if you go out and you just drop price to get volumes across your commercial base everybody else is going to follow you and before you know it again the price war on the commercial side and everybody starts losing money.
And so when we look at our commercial business we say let’s make sure that what we’re doing in the commercial business is improving our volumes but not upsetting the pricing dynamics in the market.
So what’s the best way to do that quit losing your current customers right I mean if you’re not stealing a customer from someone else you can’t upset the market dynamic.
So Jim Trevathan has put a task force together to make sure that our good customer service gets great.
So that -- and the best way for us to grow our commercial volumes would be to retain our current customers and I’d expect to see that occur in 2015.
So more defense of the business as well?  Look more defense of the business without using price right I mean we’ve defended the business before by doing using rollback and we don’t want to go there.
We want to defend the business by providing value to our customers.
And so what you’ll see in 2015 I think is an improving economy.
Again when volumes are growing look the way you upset a competitive dynamic is by going out and stealing everybody else’s business.
And we’re big enough across the country that if we do that we’re going to upset the competitive dynamic.
So the best way to do it is to go get volumes when there is growing volumes right when there is growing volumes we can take some new customers and get our fair share of the growth and that’s not going to upset the market dynamics.
When we keep more of our current customers that set the market dynamic and so now that we have seen the economy start to improve we are starting commercial volumes grow.
I think we can make good progress on commercial volumes without upsetting the pricing dynamic.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Switching gears to recycling you have all talked about this peak to trough $200 million profit hit half of it was price half of it was in your control.
Can you talk about where you are in that part you control? You clearly have made progress in 2Q 3Q but where are we in that $100 million how much is left to recapture by running it better?  Yes I will take a shot at it and then maybe Jim you can add because really that’s operating cost question Michael.
It’s half operating cost and half coaching of our customers to get them to improve the quality of what they bring us.
I mean if they are bringing us trash in the front-end it eventually goes out the back-end as trash but we incur cost to process it.
So part of that is an education process with our customers to help them understand that that’s what they bring us has to be truly recyclables and not just what they call diversion of materials.
The other side is operating efficiencies and I think we have made some nice improvement on operating efficiencies we have look at how many lines we should run at various plants what’s the most efficient way to process recyclables.
Really that was the sole improvement for the quarter it was not in pricing because as David mentioned OCC pricing was down 17% for us.
The good news is as I said we are forcing ourselves to tackle this on the OpEx side as well as the coaching of our customers.
And Michael what I would add that there is some residential contracts that don’t have the parameters that we look for today in that contract that restrict the amount of residue for example detain the material so that’s the parameter that gets to the Jim’s coaching if you will but part of it just a contractual issue as those contracts expire and we are able and if we have the industry following we are able to get the right kind of pricing and cost controls in place and waste the constituency of the waste material is right that lower the OpEx.
So those two issues are tied together to add more color the Jim’s statement.
If I were picking an inning I don’t think we are quite at the midpoint but we are approaching the midpoint maybe it is 25% to 50% of the way there of that 200 million.
Obviously the pricing commodity side of it where we can’t affect but the 100 million we can.
Okay.
So it’s 25% to 35% of the 100 million is kind of.
Just one component perhaps on the OpEx side we look further a long but on the other side probably in that 25%-30% range.
Okay fair enough.
There's another piece of this which has been interesting too where you're going back and trying to get a processing fee.
I think you have I think its Philadelphia you have talked about in the past recently where this really made a meaningful difference.
Where are we in the success of some of that activity?  Philadelphia is a great example Michael.
We have that business it had a lot of material in it that was just not recyclable the contract expired we bid it at a profitable level with all the parameters that we have just talked about in mind we lost it to the other competitor in the Philadelphia area and lost that volume but we picked up volume from third-party haulers that that recycler had in their mix and we are making money at that plant.
So it’s a great example of that issue.
But we are making the money on that third-party volume is coming because we could price it correctly.
Okay.
And then last item for Jim Fish.
So as I think about free cash flow if I end the year this is net of divestitures so 1.25 I take out Wheelabrator that is 120 if I am using a $100 million as the baseline for the risk I'm getting $80 million of it in 2015 so I get that $80 million back.
And then next component should be there's got to be some growth there is ongoing operating leverage and then there's working capital.
Is that the right way to think about it? And then lastly I would really like to hear what you are doing on the working capital collecting your money faster and paying your bills slower.
So the second question first here on working capital.
Working capital was down slightly for the quarter.
We showed some improvement in DSO of a half day versus Q3 of ’13 but not the same improvement that we showed last year on the DSO front.
Last year we showed a day and a half improvement.
So I still think there is quite a bit of opportunity on DSO.
On DPO we did show nice improvement in DPO on how quickly we pay we improved that by 2.1 days less value to improving DPO than improving DSO but both are very valuable to us and we are moving in the right direction.
I would have preferred to move a little on quicker on DSO than we did but I still think we have got both of those as improving opportunities going forward.
Free cash flow is there is couple of things that affect free cash flow.
As we think about 2015 and while we are not prepared obviously to give a number but we know that the cash taxes related to repatriation of Puerto Rico earnings that will not recur in 2015.
So that’s somewhat of a tailwind if you want to think about that that way.
And then I think still TBD on what happens with bonus depreciation we didn’t have it obviously this year there is rumors that we will have it next year but we are not counting on it.
I still think though that’s and then of course the big impact on free cash flow will be divestiture of Wheelabrator so as David mentioned that’s 120 million in cash in free cash flow that goes away call it January 1 2015.
So we’re going have to kind of reorient everyone to think about 2015 whether it’s EPS or free cash flow or EBITDA any of those financial metrics think about it excluding Wheelabrator as we go through a process of replacing we’ve said we want to replace at reasonable prices the EBITDA and free cash flow and if we can’t then we’ll go about it with other means by way of share repurchase and leverage neutrality.
And remember Michael on the re-org we’re basically getting four months of benefit in 2013 from the re-org so you get basically -- 2014 you get basically 8 months of benefit next year.
So it won’t be $100 million next year to be a little less than 100.
Right I think Jim mentioned you're getting $10 million of it in the fourth quarter but if it is $100 million I'm playing with I've got 90 million next year and there's sort of $15 million or $20 million of that's the non-labor the rest is labor.
Yes I’m just going year-over-year.
Yes David just a follow-up for you on the competitive dynamics.
We are going on our second year of volume recovering in the industry and with commercial picking up now we've pretty much seen all the way streams get better.
I'm just curious in your historical context do you think that 2015 is the year where maybe some of your peers start to get behind pricing and we see a nice step-up there? Or do you think that we are probably looking at just a continued slow recovery and just overall industry pricing?  Yes it’s a great question.
I think an improving volume and improving volume environment is always good for pricing right whether you’re selling widgets or garbage.
And so I do think that what you’ll see is more rational pricing behavior I do think what you’ll see is the larger companies saying that it’s a little easier to take the risk on loosing volumes by using price and we all know that you get a much bigger affect on the bottom-line from price than volume and so yes I would say that as you see the volume environment improving you should see the pricing environment stabilize.
Not to put words in your mouth probably more of a slow recovery than a step function up?  Well look I can’t control what anyone else does I can only control what we do and to the earlier question we’re pretty good at 2% to 2.5% yield.
We don’t have to do we can still improve don’t get me wrong but we know how to get that 2% to 2.5% yield.
Now it’s time for us to say okay how do we get that yield we’re not going to give up on that yield but how do we get that yield and stem some of these volume losses.
Frankly I think some of our competition is in a position whether they need to do a better job of getting higher margin volumes and focusing more on price because I think that look I think that we all know that what helps bottom-line and so we’d always say as I think you’ll see more balance in the overall industry where everybody is doing a little better on volume but everybody is doing better than 2% yield but again I can’t tell you what they’re going to do I can promise you what we’re going to do.
We’re not going to go below that 2% yield sort of that 3.5% to 4% core price we’re not going below that no matter what effect it has on volumes but what I’m saying is I would expect the effects for us on volumes to be better in 2015 than it was in 2014.
Great I appreciate that.
Maybe changing gears to the restructuring real quick.
I completely understand the need to align corporate with some of your customer-facing employees.
Can you maybe just walk through an example of the type of position that was eliminated or maybe some of the various efficiency gains that you guys are pursuing that will help align the Company?  Yes when we look at the reorganization and look what we did these were very good folks a lot of them been with the industry a long time very smart all doing good things for the company but what you find when your organization we call it the funnel one person sends something out to the field and says I need you to work on x and if that was all that went out to the field the field wouldn’t be distracted life would be good the problem is when you’ve got 30 people doing that 30 things goes out to the field and all of a sudden the field gets distracted because they have too many things coming at them from too many directions we sort of call it the funnel.
If there is too many things going in the funnel and heading out to the field so when we did the reorganization we said we’re not going to look at it from a people point of view we’re going to look at it from a function point of view.
And when you look at it from a function point of view if it’s not driving one of what we call our five swim lanes and those as you can imagine revolve around customer service and pricing and cost but if it’s not driving one of our five swim lanes if that function is not driving it then it is a function that we can do without for now.
It’s nice to have not a must to have and so that’s the way we looked at it we looked at it frankly from a functional point of view how do we make sure that everything that we’re doing at corporate is driving performance out in the field rather than slowing down performance out in the field and that was the philosophy we took and I think what you’ll see is that that philosophy will lead to much more alignment between our corporate staff and our field operations.
Just a brief follow-up on national accounts is it fair to assume that this segment does give you some degree of visibility with respect to forward expectations and what are you seeing fundamentally in terms of spending trends among the larger customers?  Yes look and again as Jim Trevathan pointed out those national accounts expand a lot of different types of businesses from front-end container to compactors to industrial clients.
But I’m not sure that you see a dramatic change from those large national accounts.
Those large national accounts are just like us which is we’re looking for ways to drive down costs through efficiency.
And so when we work with large national accounts what we try to tell them is you can look at this based on price if you want but the way we look at it is we’re going to start out with the particular price and then we’re going to figure out how to save you money.
So for example if you take that compactor customer if our competition is picking up that customer three times a week and we’re picking them up once a week it’s going to cost us a lot less to do it.
So how do we figure out how to pick up that container when it’s full rather than picking it up when it’s half full.
And so when we deal with national accounts our view is look we want that help you save money but we can help you save money while we continue to make money.
If you can’t take a national account view that what is going to cut the price and make less money.
That’s what we will not do because that this doesn’t work for our business.
But what we can do to find ways for each of those types of customers the front-end container the compactors those large industrial companies we can find ways where we can make the margins we want to make and they can lower their cost.
So for example the manufacturing industrial customer to buy recycled materials like metals that help them lower their overall cost and we can do that better than anyone.
So when we approach those national accounts we do look at it as how we do save them money but how do we save them money while maintaining our profitability.
And then quickly in terms of fleet spend does the drop in crude really have any impact on the current appetite for C&amp;G and I guess if not is there a price on crude that might impact how you kind of approach future purchases?  Yes right now that differential is still over $1.5 and so I would say it doesn’t affect what we’re doing on fleet purchases.
And as you have seen oil has come down a little bit short but natural gas has come down also.
We’re still a long way away from the stepping point where we’d say we want to be diesel.
But even with neutrality this is also about our customers.
Our customers are demanding a cleaner truck and clearly natural gas is going to be cleaner than diesel.
I wanted to ask about the acquisition landscape.
You talked about the multiples that the folks are asking.
Can you to put a little more color around where the relevant ranges are for multiples? And then I think you implied that they see elevated.
What do you think is driving that because looking at the underlying fundamentals in the business CPI is pretty low and so that is tough for pricing and volumes are still sluggish and what is sort of driving that elevated multiple for deals out there?  Yes it’s not just an elevated multiple it’s also that folks are doing better just like us everybody is doing better from an EBITDA point of view and so the valuations have gone up both from a performance point of view and anytime that you’re in an improving market and folks have a lot of confidence going forward on their business.
But it comes down to this what we’re trying to do is to buy their business at trailing earnings and if they’re looking forward in the future and saying gosh trailing earnings I’m not sure if those earnings are going to get much better so trailing earnings looks good to me they’ll sell out a certain multiple.
If they say gosh those forward earnings look really good to me they will sell in different multiple.
So for example we aren’t buying businesses in the recycling business but there is not a lot of people feeling greatly confident about their recycling business and that’s going to drive to a lower multiple because they say look I’ll take five to six times for my business because I don’t see my EBITDA going up dramatically over the next five years.
On the solid waste side it’s a little bit different I think people are seeing EBITDA going up and if you look at it from just discounted cash flow model point of view if you think your business is going to get a lot better over the next five years you’re going to want to hire multiple for your business.
So it’s really just pure sort of finance and what you believe about the market going forward.
And so I still think back to the original part of the question I still think that we can buy good local businesses at call it a post synergy number of five to six times EBITDA as you are buying larger sort of regional type of competitors that multiple is going to be a little bit higher because you get a bigger slug of business with one transaction but post synergies I would expect those to be in sort of 6 time to 7.5 time earning 6 times to 8 times earnings -- EBITDA I am sorry.
And so anytime you can buy a business at 5 times to 7 times EBITDA or 6 times to 8 times EBITDA you are buying at a below our current market multiple and that makes it accretive to our shareholders.
And just one last question for me on the collection volume side it's been asked a couple of different ways but had a little bit of a follow-up there.
So as I look at the last four quarters I think specifically that commercial collection volume number has been down 3% to 5%.
So the fourth quarter of ‘14 would really be the first quarter where we are going to be comping material volume decline in that segment.
So how are you guys thinking about commercial collection volumes going forward? Is the expectation that you should see the volume erosion moderate there even as you pursue your pricing initiatives? Or is the expectation that we will continue to see that 3% to 5% volume decline in the commercial collection business as we go forward over the next 12 months? Yes and again look it would be very easy for me to sit here and say to you all we are going to see that commercial volume turn positive we could do that tomorrow the problem is in order to do that we have got to put a lot of feet on the street take a lot of business from a lot of people and we all know what’s going to happen to the competitive dynamic if we do that.
And so we are taking a little bit more of a measured approach towards the commercial business and that is let’s make sure that we get our fair share of growth and let’s make sure that we don’t lose our customers that we can reduce the churn rate.
And if we can do that we can get volumes without upsetting the competitive dynamic now that means that the turn in commercial volumes is slower than it would be if we put a 1000 sales people on the street and started trying to upset competitive market dynamics.
But I would absolutely believe that we are going to see that trend I would be disappointed if we see that trend coming out of 2015 still at the negative 5%.
We haven’t put pencil to paper to see do we believe it’s going to go below that negative 3% but I certainly expect the trend line on that to be positive throughout 2015.
Can you just give us a quick reminder of how the organizational structure of the recycling business might have changed as a result of your restructuring actions how is the field and corporate level responsibility for the business shifted and where does recycling fit into these lines of sight that you have described? Is it a more integrated way of managing the business than it might have been pre-2012?  Yes so what we did with the recycling operations is right now I think we all know that the biggest challenge in our recycling operations is an operational challenge.
How do we make sure that we continue to make money when we are getting contaminated load.
So what we did with recycling was we didn’t do anything at the field level the responsibility of the field level didn’t change.
At the corporate level we said this is really a process improvement organization that we have here at the corporate level.
And so let’s run it like that.
And so we took our recycling operations and we basically put them under the gentlemen Puneet Bhasin who is running our operating programs.
So whether it is driving efficiency in our routing system or driving efficiency in our recycling plants they are both about driving efficiency.
And so we basically took that operating portion and put it under our operating officer.
The ultimate responsibility remained in the field the ultimate responsibility for the profitability of that recycling facility remained down the field.
Thank you all for joining us.
Just as in Houston we are starting to see the good weather from a weather point of view we are starting to see very good weather from our business point of view.
I would tell you that given the state of our business and given the way that we have aligned our organization I think everybody in our company is more optimistic about 2015 than we have been in many years.
So we look forward to having you all on our fourth quarter conference call where we will tell you about our expectations for 2015.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is Janisha and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Ed Egl Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Mr.
Egl you may begin your conference.
Thank you Janisha.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
With me this morning are David Steiner President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Fish Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Trevathan Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before we get started please note that we have filed a Form 8-K this morning that includes the earnings press release and is available on our website at www.wm.com.
The Form 8-K the press release and the schedules to the press release include important information.
During the call you will hear forward-looking statements which are based on current expectations projections or opinions about future periods.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of these risks and uncertainties are discussed in today's press release and in our filings with the SEC including our most recent Form 10-K.
David and Jim will discuss our results in the areas of yield and volume which unless otherwise stated are more specifically references to internal revenue growth or IRG from yield or volume.
Additionally any comparisons unless otherwise stated will be with the fourth quarter of 2013.
During the call David and Jim will discuss our earnings per diluted share which they may refer to as EPS or earnings per share.
David and Jim will also address operating EBITDA and operating EBITDA margin as defined in the earnings press release and Form 8-K filed today.
EPS effective tax rate income from operations income from operations margin operating EBITDA operating EBITDA margin SG&amp;A and SG&amp;A as a percent revenue results discussed in the call have been adjusted and EPS projections are anticipated to be adjusted to include items that management believe do not reflect our fundamental business performance or not indicative of our results of operations.
These measures in addition to free cash flow are non-GAAP measures.
Please refer to our earnings press release footnote and schedules to the Form 8-K filed today which can be found on the company's website at www.wm.com for reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures and additional information about our use of non-GAAP measures.
This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning approximately 1:00 P.M.
Eastern Time today until 5:00 P.M.
Eastern Time on March 3.
To hear a replay of the call over the Internet access the Waste Management website at www.wm.com.
To hear a telephonic replay of the call dial 855-859-2056 and enter reservation code 64356817.
Time-sensitive information provided during today's call which is occurring on February 17 2015 may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of Waste Management is prohibited.
Now I'll turn the call over to Waste Management's President and CEO David Steiner.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Ed and good morning from Houston.
2014 was a very good year for us.
Our primary goals for the year were to continue to drive core price and focus on cost controls to drive growth in earnings margins and free cash flow.
We exceeded all of our goals and we expect the momentum that we created to carry over into 2015.
In 2014 we achieved our highest adjusted earnings per share ever.
And our traditional solid waste business grew income operation and operating EBITDA and expanded margins in both of these measures.
For the full year of 2014 we achieved earnings per share of $2.48 and had total free cash flow of $3.4 billion.
If we adjust free cash flow for divestiture proceeds and an approximate $210 million overpayment of taxes we produced approximately $1.4 billion of free cash flow.
During 2014 we set the stage for increasing shareholder value by selling our Wheelabrator operations and operations in Puerto Rico and Eastern Canada for proceeds of about $2 billion.
Those assets primarily Wheelabrator accounted for about $0.18 of earnings per share and $231 million of operating EBITDA in 2014.
In 2015 we expect to be able to enter into acquisition agreement to replace most if not all of that amount.
However we will be disciplined in our approach to buying an asset.
We want to buy assets that fit within our business at prices that are accretive to our current trading multiple.
We believe that by being patient and disciplined we can replace the divested operating EBITDA at a multiple of about seven times which would leave us about $400 million of proceeds from our Wheelabrator divestiture to apply the share buybacks or other accretive tuck-in acquisitions.
Combined with our strong operating free cash flow we believe that we can apply significant cash to both of these areas while maintaining a strong balance sheet.
Although we believe that we will identify acquisition targets by midyear given timing uncertainty of both negotiations and any necessary regulatory approvals our guidance assumes that we will not close any acquisitions in 2015 other than the previously announced acquisition of Deffenbaugh Disposal and our normal tuck-in acquisitions.
We will also hold off on any significant share repurchases until we get a better feel for which acquisitions we'll be able to close and at what price.
We would expect that by midyear we'll be in a good position to begin to buy back shares and we would expect to buy back enough shares to at least offset any 2015 dilution.
Of course we'll buy back more if we cannot identify attractive acquisition targets at reasonable prices.
Turning back to our operations.
Our pricing programs continued to drive earnings growth and margin expansion.
At the beginning of 2014 we expected yields to be approximately 2% for the full year and we exceeded that target.
For the full year our collection and disposal core price was 4% with yields of 2.3%.
We've now seen seven consecutive quarters with yield of 2% or greater.
Each of our lines of business had positive yield for the full year with the exception of landfill C&amp;D.
For the full year core price in the commercial line of business was 6.2%; industrial was 8.1%; and we saw 1.8% in landfills.
This has had some effect on volumes but we continue to see the tradeoff as positive as the operating margin in our traditional solid waste business was up 130 basis points.
Our pricing team in areas have done a fantastic job and they have plans in place to continue that success in 2015.
For 2015 we expect that internal revenue growth from yield should again be 2% or more and for core price to be about 3.8%.
Core price is more representative of our pricing activities because yield includes geographic and waste stream mix.
Ultimately we're focused on using price to drive dollars to our bottom line and core price best estimates the bottom-line impact of pricing.
At 3.8% or higher core pricing will once again drive margin expansion in 2015.
As for volumes we're starting to see some underlying positive trends.
For the full year our volume was a negative 1.4% right about where we expected it to be.
However since the fourth quarter of 2013 we've seen a sequential improvement in volumes culminating with the fourth quarter being the best volume quarter of 2014 at negative 0.8%.
We also saw volumes in every line of business improve sequentially from the third quarter of 2014.
We certainly are encouraged to see movements in the right direction.
For instance volume losses in both commercial yards and residential owned service gradually improved during 2014.
While we're not ready to say that 2015 will have positive volumes we do see improvement in 2015 such that volume should be between a negative 0.5% and flat for the full year.
Of course as recent storms on the East Coast demonstrate our first quarter volumes can be affected by weather but underlying trends have improved.
So the price and volume trade-off continues to be very positive for the full year as the company's income from operations grew more than 10% and our income from operations margin grew 190 basis points.
In addition operating EBITDA increased 4% and operating EBITDA margins increased 140 basis points to 25.9%.
We achieved those results despite a negative $0.02 per share impact to 2014 EPS from foreign currency translation due to the impact of the strengthening dollar on our Canadian operations.
On the recycling front our operations performed well in the face of declining commodity prices.
For the full year our recycling line of business increased about $0.03 per share when compared to 2013.
This improvement was driven by better operating cost performance offsetting a more than 5% decline in OCC prices.
Our managers did a great job managing their rebates and costs as commodity prices declined throughout the year.
Until recently we had expected our recycling operations to remain flat in 2015.
However the recent slowdown in Western U.S.
ports has had a dramatic effect on the movement of commodities overseas.
We would join with others to encourage the federal government to take a more active role in the slowdown which is not only having an effect on commodity prices but on the entire U.S.
economy.
Lower demand out of China has also affected commodity prices.
In the last few weeks we've seen another drop in commodity prices such that we now expect recycling to have a negative effect on 2015 earnings of between $0.03 and $0.05 per share.
That assumes that we do not see another drop in commodity prices and given current uncertainty in the market that's certainly possible.
In the face of weaker commodity prices we must continue to take actions to ensure the viability of recycling over the long-term.
Jim will talk about some of the specific actions to improve our recycling operations.
Turning to free cash flow.
Our 2014 guidance was $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion and we generated $3.4 billion of free cash flow in 2014.
However we had two fourth quarter events that we would adjust out to get a more normalized free cash flow number.
First was our sale of Wheelabrator; second we overpaid about $210 million of 2014 cash taxes that will directly reduce 2015 cash tax requirements.
Jim will go into more detail but absent these actions 2014 free cash flow would have been about $1.4 billion.
We expect that free cash flow will once again be between $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion in 2015 as we continue to focus on disciplined capital spending and driving earnings growth in our core business.
Cash flow could be even higher if we're able to close any acquisitions to replace our Wheelabrator EBITDA other than Deffenbaugh.
So 2015 will be a transition year in which we continue our pricing and cost efforts while focusing on redeploying our Wheelabrator proceeds.
Nevertheless our guidance of full year adjusted EPS of between $2.48 and $2.55 represents an increase of between 8% and 11% when 2014 is adjusted for divestiture earnings which is in line with our long-term target for EPS growth of between 8% and 12%.
Free cash flow is expected to be robust.
And our redeployment of Wheelabrator proceeds will set the stage for accelerated earnings and free cash flow growth in 2016.
I'll now turn the call over to Jim to discuss our fourth quarter results and our 2015 outlook in more detail.
Thanks David.
I will review the results for the fourth quarter and expectations for 2015.
First SG&amp;A cost discipline has been a major focus for the company in the past year.
At the beginning of 2014 we expected that SG&amp;A dollars would be flat when compared to 2013 and that SG&amp;A margin would improve.
The results for SG&amp;A in 2014 were better than we expected.
I'm pleased with the overall results as SG&amp;A costs for the full year improved almost $40 million to $1.43 billion and improved as a percent of revenue by 30 basis points to 10.2%.
For the fourth quarter SG&amp;A costs were $376 million essentially flat compared to 2013.
As a percent of revenue SG&amp;A costs rose 20 basis points to 10.9%.
In the fourth quarter we saw approximately $18 million in SG&amp;A savings from our third quarter restructuring.
These savings were offset by increases to long-term incentive compensation accruals and certain legal settlements.
These settlements not only affected SG&amp;A but they also reduced free cash flow by almost $30 million.
Without these accruals SG&amp;A expense as a percent of revenue would have been 10.3% in the fourth quarter.
Based on preliminary information for January we saw SG&amp;A expenses improve $10 million when compared to January of 2014 on a base of $124 million.
This is a good start to the year.
And for 2015 we anticipate saving $60 million from the restructuring and thus we expect SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue to be below 10% for the full year.
Turning to cash flow.
For the full year we generated $3.4 billion of free cash flow.
Without the divestitures and overpayment of cash taxes that David mentioned free cash flow would have been about $1.4 billion.
The $210 million of tax overpayments is composed of two parts.
First because passage of the tax extenders legislation was after our fourth quarter estimated tax payment had been made the approximately $60 million cash tax benefit of bonus depreciation was not reflected in our cash tax calculations for 2014.
The $60 million will result in a cash tax reduction in 2015.
The remaining $150 million of overpayment relates to comparing our actual tax provision to the payments made throughout the year.
Our estimates changed late in the year because of the close date of the Wheelabrator transaction and the impacts from impairments.
Therefore we ended the year in an overpaid position.
This will be a free cash flow benefit in 2015 but will be largely offset by free cash flow from divested operations.
For the fourth quarter we returned $172 million to our shareholders through our dividend.
For the full year 2014 we returned about $1.3 billion to our shareholders consisting of $693 million in dividends and share repurchases of $600 million.
Our board has indicated its intention to increase dividends in 2015 by 2.7% to $1.54 per share on an annual basis.
This is the 12th consecutive year of increasing the dividend.
For 2015 our anticipated annual dividends will result in approximately $700 million being returned to our shareholders.
We also have authorization from our Board of Directors to repurchase $1 billion of our shares.
However as David mentioned our preference is to replace the divested operating EBITDA from Wheelabrator at attractive multiples before we repurchase shares.
We believe we can accomplish this in 2015.
At a minimum however we would expect to be in the market repurchasing shares in the back half of the year to offset dilution.
During 2015 we expect capital expenditures of approximately $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion and free cash flow in 2015 is expected to be between $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion.
Looking at internal revenue growth for the total company in the fourth quarter our collection and disposal core price was 3.9% and yield was 2% with volumes declining 0.8% for an organic revenue growth of 1.2%.
This led to total company income from operations growing $54 million operating income margin expanding 190 basis points operating EBITDA growing $34 million and operating EBITDA margin growing 140 basis points.
Our collection lines of business continue to see the benefit of the price/volume tradeoff.
Our commercial core price was 6% with yield of 3.9%.
Our industrial core price was 8% with yield of 3.7%.
And residential achieved 2.1% core price and 1.1% yield.
Overall collection core price was 5.1% and yield was 2.8% with volumes declining 2.5%.
The volume change was 110-basis-point improvement from the third quarter.
This core price and volume led to income from operations growing $16 million and margin expanding 130 basis points.
In the landfill line of business we saw the benefits of both positive volume and positive yield in the fourth quarter just as we have all year.
We saw same-store average MSW rates increase year-over-year for the eighth consecutive quarter up 1.3% from Q4 of 2013.
This also was the highest fourth quarter MSW rate that we've seen since 1998.
Total landfill volumes increased 6.4%.
Combined special waste and revenue-generating cover volumes were a positive 8.9%.
MSW volumes grew by 6.5% and C&amp;D volume grew 17.7%.
This led to income from operations growing $13 million which is the seventh consecutive quarter of growth.
Margins grew 80 basis points.
Turning to recycling.
As David mentioned we need to further our current actions to ensure the long-term viability of recycling.
When we look at recycling we look at three phases: inbound product processing and outbound product.
With respect to inbound product we will be more aggressive in setting contractual limitations on contamination levels and impose contractual remedies for contamination in excess of such limitations.
Contamination above 10% leaves to higher processing costs and we need to continue to get assurances from our customers that they will either give us clean material or compensate us for higher processing costs.
This will ensure that we only pay a rebate for the net volumes produced and not pay our customers for residue.
Glass has always been a difficult commodity to recycle and an economic challenge.
Unlike other recycled materials recycled glass must compete with an abundant supply of virgin materials.
As a result glass recycling does not provide the same environmental benefits to the society and it's always been financially challenging for recyclers.
In addition glass is difficult to handle hard on equipment and as of today only one company takes recycled glass for MRFs so our options are significantly limited.
With most commodities we get paid to deliver recycled materials.
Glass is the only commodity where we aren't paid for the outbound product.
We actually have to pay to send it to a processor.
We certainly recognize that our cities and communities want to divert glass because it is the second largest recyclable by weight.
But given the many challenges associated with glass we need to charge extra if a customer wants to recycle.
Next with respect to processing costs we need to take a stronger stance to ensure that we recover our full processing costs.
Processing costs increased due to circumstances beyond our control like the Chinese Green Fence.
We need to recover those costs.
So as we've said in the past our strategy in pricing our recycle business is to recover our processing costs before we split the commodity value.
Our contracts will also contain force majeure language to cover increases in processing costs beyond our control and if our processing costs are higher than the commodity values our customers will have to pay for the difference.
With respect to outbound volumes we need to ensure that our customers are paid their rebates based upon the rate we receive per tons sold and not on an indexed price that may or may not reflect reality.
Finally we need force majeure language for issues like the current port slowdown that can affect prices for commodities.
These actions will support the long-term financial viability of recycling which will not only benefit Waste Management but will also benefit the environment and our customers by motivating us to continue investing in our recycling assets.
Moving now to operating expenses.
These expenses improved by $97 million in the fourth quarter and $110 million for the full year.
For the full year $50.5 million of savings were for costs associated with recently divested businesses.
On a component cost basis fuel costs for the year improved by $47 million.
As fuel surcharge levels declined with diesel prices it will have a dampening impact on revenue but will continue to benefit margins.
As a percent of revenue operating expenses in the fourth quarter improved 170 basis points to 63.1%.
For the full year operating expenses as a percent of revenue improved 90 basis points to 64.3%.
In 2014 our focus on improving operating costs saw significant traction and we expect that improvement to continue into 2015.
Finally looking at our financial metrics.
At the end of the fourth quarter our weighted average cost of debt was 4.91%.
The floating rate portion of our total debt portfolio was 9% at the end of the quarter.
The decline in the floating rate portion of our debt from the third quarter relates to the repayment of outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
Lastly in January we redeemed three series of senior notes with a weighted average coupon rate of 7% and paid the related make-whole premium.
We used proceeds from the Wheelabrator divestiture to fund this transaction pending consideration of potential debt refinancing options.
The reported effective tax rate was approximately 0.3% in the fourth quarter and 23.6% for the full year.
The rates were lower than our expected rate of 35% primarily due to the tax implications of divestitures.
The tax benefit from divestitures is removed from our as adjusted results.
We did include in our as adjusted earnings per share a $0.02 per share tax benefit from adjustments to accruals and related deferred taxes and audit settlements.
Adjusting a recorded rate for such items would have resulted in a rate of approximately 33%.
In conclusion 2014 was a very good year for Waste Management as our employees did a great job of focusing on pricing cost and cost controls.
And for that I want to say thank you.
We were also able to successfully divest several operations in the year which serves to both refocus the company on the core business and generate significant proceeds.
As David mentioned we will look to put those proceeds to work in 2015 with the intention of replacing the Wheelabrator operating EBITDA by early 2016.
We're excited for continued growth in 2015 and look to accelerate that growth into 2016 and beyond.
And with that Janisha let's open the line for questions.
Your first question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey of Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning Alex.
On the cost saves you talked about $60 million benefit on the SG&amp;A line.
Is there any target for the cost of goods line for 2015 and expected cost saves from the cost initiatives you have in place right now? Well the cost of goods sold line we certainly have seen an improvement in that line as we've taken some aggressive steps but I don't have an exact number for you there Alex.
I think we can get something to you though.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> But the key Alex is that as we manage those rebates better our cost of goods sold as a percent of the commodity price that we achieve continues to improve.
And so we would expect that to continue to improve in 2015.
As Jim said we got to take some steps to really fix the recycling business because if you look at not just at Waste Management but across the entire recycling industry you're seeing a divestment in recycling assets.
And so for the benefit not just of Waste Management but I think for the viability of recycling in the United States we have to have some core fundamental changes that Jim described to make the business long-term viable.
Makes sense David.
And on the Deffenbaugh acquisition can you say when you expect that to close? And what you expect the contribution should be to the 2015 earnings number? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
We'll give the contribution number once we actually close it.
And we would expect to be able to close it likely within the next 30 days.
Very good.
Thank you.
I'll turn it over.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Box of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning Joe.
Inc.</span></strong> So Jim thanks for the rundown on the recycling business.
I guess I'm just curious what your guys' views are on the market.
If you look a couple years out let's say hypothetically commodity prices remain at this low level.
I know a lot of operators are kind of intermingled with their businesses.
So if you start to see guys really struggle in the recycling space what is this space look like a couple years from now and how does that impact you? So Joe as David mentioned in his script I mean we've done a good job of compensating for some of this price declines.
In fact he said that we just recently changed to this 3% to 5% negative guidance and that was because for the month of January we felt pretty good about compensating for what was at the time about a $10 decline in pricing.
We've seen an additional decline in February and hence the negative guidance for recycling.
As far as what it looks like going forward boy we have not been real successful in projecting the outlook for recycling over years.
So the only thing we can do to control that is take an aggressive stance on changing these contracts and then take a tough stance on cost control.
Projecting the commodity price is something we haven't been very adept at.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And Joe again look the viability of recycling is at its core very simple.
You sell the commodity for a certain price right.
In the past what the industry has done is said we'll sell the commodity for a certain price and then whatever our processing cost is we'll be able to pocket the difference.
The reality is as commodity prices have come down you got instances where our processing cost is higher than what we are selling the commodity for.
And so you can't have the business model where it says we'll sell the commodity split the proceeds and hopefully cover our operating costs.
The way we're changing the contracts is to say: look we are going to recover our operating costs whatever those might be and however those might be affected by things that we can't control like the Chinese Green Fence.
So we're going to recover our processing costs.
And if we're able to sell the commodity for more than our processing costs then we'll split the proceeds with the customer.
If our processing costs are higher than what we can sell the commodities for we're going to have to charge our customers in order to recycle.
And that's the only way that we can make recycling viable for the long-term.
Joe we might add one other quick point and that's that the commodities that are being recycled over the long-term we think need to change.
An example is the substantial city in Pennsylvania that just announced not recycling glass in the future.
They recognize that the value of recycling the material is just not just positive.
There's no real market for it and they've decided not recycle glass.
They made that announcement earlier this week.
So that's a positive sign for us.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
I appreciate the color on that.
Can you guys talk about your coal ash business maybe how it's different versus some of your other peers? And then I've seen a couple of awards for coal ash to be shipped to some of your landfills.
I'm just curious what the quoting pipeline looks like right now for coal ash? Are utilities starting to look at remediating old surface impoundments outside of South Carolina and North Carolina? Or is it still too soon to start thinking about that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
It's really too soon.
We need to really try to put numbers around the coal ash.
But what I'd tell you Joe is that we saw this coming three years ago two-and-a-half years ago when the regulations were first proposed and we've been out in front of customers trying to work on solutions ever since.
And so we're not new to the party here.
We've been doing it for a long time.
We've developed those customer relationships and so we would expect to do – I mean to the extent that there is revenue generated from the new coal ash regulations we would expect to get more than our fair share.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for the color guys.
Take care.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Corey Greendale of First Analysis.
Hey good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
First I had more of a historical question.
So you touched on the cost of ops.
I'm not sure that I have a complete grasp of why the cost of ops was down so much.
So I know that press release cites divestitures.
I think Wheelabrator wasn't divested to the very end of the quarter.
So could you just maybe elaborate a little bit on what drove the strong improvement in cost of ops both on a dollar basis and as a percent of revenue? Yes.
I think there were a couple things that drove the cost of operations down.
First of all we've taken a tough stance on – but the right stance to take on managing labor in operations.
That will continue going forward.
We've used some routing technology and that has started to bear some fruit.
Additionally of course as everyone knows fuel prices affect the cost of operations.
And so while you see it coming off of the operating expense line you'll also see it coming off the top line in the form of a fuel surcharge.
Yes Corey Jim Trevathan here.
We're about halfway through at implementing our what we call service delivery optimization: the onboard computers that we put on all of our routed trucks and getting the value out of those through the routing tools that Jim mentioned.
And the labor reductions we've done a much better job recently at getting both labor and routes out as volume changes have occurred.
And you see the results of that in addition to fuel.
So Jim or Jim then if you look at the 2015 guidance you said you expect SG&amp;A to be below 10% of revenue.
Can you get some sense of what cost of ops assumption is baked into the guidance? Gosh cost of operations look I think for 2015 operating costs we expect that we will be able to continue the progress we've made in 2014.
I don't see a big increase in OpEx as a percent of revenue.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes we would expect to see some modest improvement in costs as a percent of revenue.
The big issue that we've got is volume right.
I mean I think you all know that the ability to leverage costs from new commercial volumes is dramatic.
We haven't seen commercial volumes turn positive.
So we would expect to see some modest improvement in cost of operations as a percent of revenue but we'll really see that improve as we start to see commercial volumes pick up in 2015 going through 2016.
And then we'd also expect to continue to see improvement in our operating costs at the recycling line.
So we'll see some modest improvement in operating costs.
As Jim said we'll see some good improvement on SG&amp;A.
So we should see that 100 basis point plus improvement to margins next year.
Okay.
Great.
And then David to your point on volume first of all I think you made a comment about storms in the East.
Does that suggest that we should be expecting a somewhat softer than the trend line on volume in Q1? And then the comment you just made about lines improving on the commercial side.
Does that suggest that you think overall volumes could go positive at some point during 2015 and then in 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
I wouldn't be surprised at all to see at the back half of 2015 that we start to see the trend line turning positive from a volume point of view.
Probably not till later in the year but given what we've seen from the economy and housing starts I wouldn't be surprised to see that at all coming out of 2015 and into 2016.
With respect to the first quarter no look we see volume reports on a very frequent basis.
You've seen a little bit of a drop-off in volumes but as you know sometimes those volumes bounce back real quickly in March because of the weather.
So no we're not trying to say that we will definitely see down volumes in the first quarter.
But given what you all particularly up on the East Coast in Boston and other parts of the East Coast what you're going through we just wanted to make sure that everybody understands that you really can't judge the full year by first quarter volumes.
Yes.
Understood.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Al.
Inc.</span></strong> I just wanted to follow up on the volume question.
It just strikes me as I don't know if it's sending out a warning sign or what but you guys are collecting trash so I don't think the weather has never stopped you before so what's behind the comment David? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> There is absolutely nothing behind that comment other than the fact that we say it every year which is when you start to see the seasonal uptick from March through June we'll get a real good feel for the prior question which is will we see positive volumes in the back half of the year.
But the only point we're making is that we're not going to make any assumptions on full year volumes based on the first quarter because the first quarter always has a weather impact.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then on the volume side again just what's ticking higher better than your expectations? Because I would have thought the volume guidance range would have been a little bit wider than 50 basis points to flat.
In other words closer to the down 1% to flat.
So what's ticking up for you? And obviously it showed up in the fourth quarter as well.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Look when we look across the various lines let's take them one line at a time.
On the commercial line we're seeing net service increases improve.
We're seeing pounds per yard improve.
And I think we're seeing generally sort of overall economic improvement whether it's new business starts or new housing starts.
And so we've been waiting for the pick-up in commercial volumes for a long time.
And I guess for the first time in the last three years what I would say is we're pretty optimistic they're going to improve.
Now we're not going to try to say they're going to turn positive in 2015.
But we haven't said in three years that we're pretty optimistic that they're going to improve in 2015.
On the industrial line again looking at the general economy looking at housing starts that's all good.
A big part of our industrial line is our energy services and I think everybody would acknowledge that energy services is a big question mark for 2015.
But we've done a spectacular job in energy services of increasing our market share where we have assets.
And so we expect to see increased market share at least partially offset some of the volumes on the industrial line of business.
So we're fairly positive there.
On the residential side we've lost a lot of residential contracts in the last few years some of those intentionally some of those not intentionally.
And so the contracts that we wanted to lose on the residential side we've basically gone through those.
And so we should start to see some year-over-year at least a decline or an improvement in the rate of decline on the residential line.
And then finally looking at our national account business again the national accounts that we wanted to lose we've lost.
We've got some what I'd call low-margin national accounts that we'll still look at in 2015 but we would expect our national account volume to begin to stabilize and grow toward the back half of 2015.
So what I would say is that overall we're very optimistic that we're going to see an improvement in volumes.
Look you're absolutely right about the 50 basis points.
Is that a narrow range yes it's a narrow range.
But what we really wanted to impart was that we're seeing volumes moving back closer to flat.
And again going back to the prior question we would expect them to actually start to turn positive toward the back half of the year.
And so we gave that narrow range because we didn't want people to think they were going to turn positive so you've got to start out with flat.
And we wanted people to know that we think they're improving.
So we didn't want to say negative 1%.
So the point of going 50 basis points I think it's a great question.
The point is we wanted to impart that we're seeing improvement but we're not ready quite yet to call positive volumes for 2015.
Al I think the fact that a lot of that volume growth is coming on the collections side of the business highlights why it's so important on operating expense to really make sure that we continue with the efforts that Jim has put into place to really improve our operating expense as a percent of revenue because as you know from 2014 really for us not a great year on collection volumes a decent year on landfill volumes.
But collection volumes come with a bit higher operating cost as a percent of revenue.
So it is very important for us that we continue those efforts on the OpEx side.
Inc.</span></strong> And that was sorry Jim that was to drive or recover collection volumes to gain the operating leverage was that the point? Right.
As we see collection volumes start to improve which was what we've seen with 110 basis point improvement sequentially from Q3 to Q4 we need to make sure that we have all of the pieces in place operating-wise to control costs.
Collection volumes have a higher operating cost variable operating cost than do landfill volumes.
So we feel good about going into 2015 with those pieces in place.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And finally if I may I don't know if I heard correctly what the benefit in Q4 was on fuel but what maybe have you baked into 2015 whether that's a dollar volume or a dollar level or versus margin benefit? And then secondly in regards to that how do you expect the competitors to react particularly in the highly competitive markets on this lower fuel price because isn't that simply an incentive for them to perhaps even lower price? So do you see that as a particular option? And then finally I think David congratulations to you on this past weekend's performance.
Thanks.
So setting aside that congratulations let me address the – we beat you to it.
Let me address the first question Al.
Look as far as fuel goes – I mean look large price declines as we've seen recently large price spikes put us into an under-recovery or over-recovery position.
Large price declines put us into an over-recovery position.
But over time our fuel surcharge program fully recovers cost increases for us.
So for the most part we're generally agnostic with respect to the price of fuel.
In 2015 we expect there would be a slight benefit to margin maybe 10 basis points from lower fuel cost.
But for the most parts we would expect that that fuel surcharge which has a lag to it will catch up and we'll be in kind of a full recovery position where we aren't over-recovering or under-recovering depending on the direction of fuel.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And to the competitive question I think generally what we've seen in declining fuel markets is that the competition doesn't generally take that as an opportunity to go out and lower price.
They take it as an opportunity to improve their bottom line.
And the other part is that for the most part our largest competitors also have a fuel surcharge so it shouldn't have any difference to them whatsoever.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you David and Jim.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Tyler Brown of Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Jim just at a very high level can you just kind of bridge the $2.4 billion in pro forma operating cash flow to the midpoint here in 2015 to $2.7 billion? I mean I'm just kind of looking for the big puts and takes.
I mean presumably you've got a drag from commodities FX but then you do have some offsets with Deffenbaugh the tuck-ins internal growth the cash taxes et cetera.
But just trying to help us understand the components of that $300 million? Yes.
So as you said there's going to be a number of pluses and minuses there.
On the minus side as we talked about we've got some recycling challenges potentially.
We have a little bit of added capital expenditures versus where we finished the year mostly related to the big contracts coming on board.
We have a year-over-year working capital hit from the fact that last year we accelerated bonus.
But we also have some working capital pick-up as well: the fact that hopefully we won't have another big legal settlements this year.
And we're making quite a bit of progress on working capital as well on DSO and DPO.
So on the plus side we've got the restructuring impact.
We have lower interest expense.
We've got those working capital items.
And then really at that point you get to our core business which includes the aggressive approach to cost control.
It includes pricing.
And so I think when you combine all of those while there's a lot of kind of puts and takes I think we feel comfortable with getting to the cash from operations growth figures.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And so of that $300 million though how much of it is this – the prepayment on the cash taxes? I mean is that effectively a $200 million benefit in 2015? $210 million.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Okay.
Good.
And then on CapEx how does that break down between maintenance and growth? And then can you break it down between trucks landfill development containers et cetera et cetera? Yes I mean on the first question maintenance and growth probably Jim I would guess $900 million.
In both fleet and in landfills approximately $900 million $950 million split relatively equally Tyler with collection.
We're moving it forward slightly versus the last three years.
But on average we bought about 1 000 a little over 1 000 trucks the last three years.
And in 2015 we'll buy 1 020 trucks.
So the plan moving forward roughly evenly split...
Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Perfect.
That's very helpful.
And then I think in the press release you guys noted that you would do a normal pace of tuck-ins.
What exactly is that? I mean how much are you looking to deploy there on that this would be excluding Deffenbaugh? Yes.
I mean excluding kind of use of proceeds for Wheelabrator it's typically between $100 million and $200 million.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Perfect.
All right.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Hoffman of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thank you very much for taking my questions this morning.
Nice end to the 2014.
On recycling just so I understand all the data you're sharing with us on your guidance giving the negative $0.03 to $0.05 but there's an offset.
And if I look at the offset you recorded in – and the offset you trying to run the business better that you recorded in the fourth quarter down about proportionally the same in 4Q as we are sort of going into 2015.
So am I right in you've got about $0.12 you're trying to drive savings – or I mean sorry there's $0.12 of loss from paper and there's $0.07 to $0.09 of savings that you're trying to drive.
So the question is how much more do you have to play in that sort of $0.07 to $0.09 range to work with going forward? If we're structurally in a long-term low paper price environment and we got a long tail on the solution – I get you're working on the solution.
But how much more do you have to play with in driving incremental improvements? Yes.
I guess Michael when I look at this on a blended basis so I'm not breaking it out my answer won't be on a OCC versus plastics versus other commodities.
But on a blended basis we finished the year 2014 at $98 and we saw a January drop about $10 so to $89 and that impacts us on the 6 million tons that we actually pick up and take to our MRFs about $60 million in revenue which equates to somewhere in that $0.03 to $0.05 range on the EPS line.
We think in January the cost control that we put into place fully compensated for that which is why we were prepared to come on a call and say we thought it'd be flat.
And then with the February decline we just have not been able to put the more stringent contract changes and cost controls in place yet.
So can we do that? That is our plan.
But at this point we're trying to be a little conservative because of the kind of the falling knife here so to speak.
So we think there's probably $0.03 to $0.05 in the $80 number which is where we may finish the month of February in that blended rate.
If things go to heck from there and fall to $60 then I think all bets are off with respect to that $0.03 to $0.05.
But right now we feel good about the contract changes that I went through in detail in my script.
We feel good about the cost controls that we put into place not only in January but in all of 2014.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
If the port strike – and I know this is a tough one because too much guessing I suppose.
But if the port strike ends say at the end of this month lots of things can change quickly.
But how long does it – excuse me if the port strike is prolonged how long can it go before you miss the seasonal uptick in your mind? Like if it runs into March even to the middle of March have we just missed the seasonal window because Asia has to find a source of paper and they go looking elsewhere? Yes.
A couple things Michael first of all it's difficult to disaggregate the effect of the port strike into its component parts in that $0.03 to $0.05.
So it's tough to tell.
There are a couple of different moving parts.
There's a weaker Chinese economy.
There's quality issues with outbound product.
And there is of course the port strike.
One of the concerns we have honestly about the port strike is that there's a lot of products sitting idle at this point.
When that does eventually get resolved all that product ends up out on the market which could have a dampening effect on commodity pricing.
So I didn't do a very good job of answering kind of your seasonal uptick question there and I'm not sure I know how to answer that because it's hard to predict what's going to happen with the port strike.
It's also hard to separate the port strike in that $0.03 to $0.05 negative guidance that we gave you because there's a couple of different moving parts.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Fair enough.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Michael.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Hi David.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Back when we saw the energy price drop I heard an oil man say something that I thought was a pretty good quote.
He said nothing solves low energy prices like low energy prices because at some point in time the market stabilizes and you find equilibrium.
And I would say nothing solves low commodity prices like low commodity prices.
I mean you're seeing a pretty stark disinvestment in recycling assets.
And you're seeing a lot of the smaller players starting to close up shop.
That gives us a great opportunity to restructure the recycling business to restructure it to where we can make a guaranteed return every year which means we can invest in recycling assets.
Look we cannot invest in recycling assets in a situation like what you and Jim were just talking about where nobody has any idea where commodity prices are going.
And so we're going to use the opportunity to make sure that we restructure our business such that we can make it profitable come hell or high water.
And so that's really where our focus is is driving out the operating cost that we can today and then reorganizing the business and only bidding contracts that follow our statement of how we need to make a profitable business out of recycling.
We're just not going to sign contracts that put so much risk of commodity prices on our back.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Fair enough.
And I get that.
I saw that what you did with Philadelphia.
Foreign exchange was $0.02 in 2014.
It's about the same change year-over-year.
So thinking it's about $0.02 in 2015 that's the right way to think about it? I'm not sure I'd give it $0.02 in 2015.
Again kind of hard to predict what the dollar will do versus the Canadian dollar but we didn't put anything in for foreign currency impact in 2015.
So I would say it's flat.
If we do have an impact then...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We'll find another way to overcome it.
...we'll find a way to overcome it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then Jim you said that you paid down some debt in January.
Just so we get the right sort of run rate on the interest expense either based on that revised total debt can you talk about what you think the interest expense number is? Or tell me what the total debt number is I'll work backwards into it myself? But what am I looking at starting in January now that you paid down more debt? So cash interest decreased by $17 million in 2014 and that was due largely to a couple things first of all the Q2 recycling of the $350 million senior notes.
We also had some tax exemplary marketings that came in at lower rates.
And then of course in January we made whole those three senior notes with a weighted average coupon of 7%.
So what will the interest rate be? It's kind of yet to be determined on what the rates will be on the refinancing.
And the cash impact is our cost of debt is coming down.
Wouldn't surprise me if the cash impact is similar to 2014.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
And then when you frame Wheelabrator are you going to either provide restated numbers on a quarterly basis so we know what it looks like year-over-year comparing without it? Or can you at least tell us what was the revenue number that I should be pulling out of my quarters or at least for the full year in 2015? Yes the supplemental schedule that came out pretty much is all.
It's divested operations.
But for the most part it's Wheelabrator.
So revenue – the way we've adjusted out to kind of get you to an apple-to-apples is $852 million.
Now that's Wheelabrator plus Puerto Rico and the Maritimes but largely Wheelabrator.
And then adjusting out $231 million in EBITDA $220 million of that was Wheelabrator.
So again largely on every one of those metrics on that schedule it's for the most part a Wheelabrator adjustment.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And I think Michael I think last quarter we mentioned when we announced the divestiture we mentioned that obviously Wheelabrator the $0.18 that's coming out of earnings doesn't come out equal every quarter.
I think we mentioned last quarter that electricity prices last year in the first quarter were very high.
So there was – I think it was $0.05 of earnings per share from Wheelabrator in the first quarter of last year.
And so it won't come out equally every quarter.
It'll come out a little bit more weighted toward the first quarter than the other quarters.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Fair enough.
And then cash taxes paid in 2014? Cash taxes in 2014? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Let's see here.
Cash taxes in 2014 $763 million and then we expect 2015 cash taxes to be about $517 million something like that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
And that delta on the one well actually the whole $210 million that's I mean if we don't get another extension bonus accretion that doesn't repeat and then the $150 million is all about having done divestments.
So that's a one-time.
Those are both one-time events right? That's right.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then special waste activity are you seeing volumes that would indicate that non-residential construction may be starting to percolate in a positive direction? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
We've seen special waste volume pretty strong all year.
And I think it really is the untold story of the lower energy prices.
It started out with natural gas and then it's moved to oil.
You've seen a lot of construction projects particularly along the Gulf Coast where we have great positioned assets.
And so you've seen great strength in it in 2014.
We'd expect that to continue in 2015.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then I'm surprised you haven't been asked it yet David but the price gate for 2015.
So you had a different type of bonusing program for the last couple years.
What are you doing differently in 2015? And can you share some of the hurdles that you've set for bonuses and how the bonus accrual would work in 2015? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
It's a great question Michael.
As I've said before you've got two options with the pricing gate.
You can either – well you can do nothing but doing nothing for us is not an option.
So you've got the opportunity to do the carrot or the stick.
The last two years we had a pretty big carrot out there where we said if you can get over 2% yield we're going to basically pay the 2012 bonus that everybody missed out on because we didn't do pricing very well in 2012.
And so in 2015 we'll go back.
I hate to use the word but we'll go back more toward the stick side.
We've paid out those bonuses.
Everybody is very happy but that doesn't mean that you can now sit back and rest on your laurels.
And so we'll go back to a price gate where everybody – we basically give a target to every area and every area has got to meet their price target.
And if they don't meet their price target we can adjust their bonus by up to 50%.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And will the gate this year include both a landfill driver and a collection? Or it doesn't matter how they get it? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
When we do it we basically go to back to what I talked about before core price right.
Look the reality is as you know we've been putting a lot of emphasis on landfill pricing and we'll continue to put an emphasis on landfill pricing.
But from a bonus point of view what we're really looking for is dollars to the bottom line.
And so one market might be able to drive that with the landfill another market might be able to drive it through industrial and another market might be able to drive it through their commercial business another one might have to look to their franchise business to drive it.
And so there's as many ways to drive it as there are lines of business.
We just want to make sure that they get the total dollars to the bottom line.
But I can promise you that from a management focus point of view we've got a lot of management focus on the landfill line.
Michael Jim Trevathan.
I would tell you though that Dave's exactly right that they can get it in any line of business.
However the targets are comparable to last year by area and they can't get it unless they hit all lines of business.
They can't totally load up on one as opposed to touching all of the lines of business.
So I think you'll see it come in just about the same as last year as 2014.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
Great.
And then Jim Fish on cash flow from ops you finished 2014 at $2.331 billion.
If I'm understanding the comments that were made earlier I can take $90 million and say that's a permanent change on a year-over-year basis and $210 million is a one-time.
And so looking sort of modeling out multi-year cash flow from ops I'm not going from 16.5% to 20% of revs.
I'm still 16.5% is improving by about $90 million to maybe 17%.
But I'm making improvement but that's the way to think about it right? Yes.
I think that's right.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey look Michael I think the piece that you wrote hit the nail right on the head.
We're going to see good cash flow improvement.
We'll start to see great cash flow improvement when we get the recycling business straightened out.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
One last answer for you that you asked initially was revenue for Wheelabrator revenue for Wheelabrator $817 million of that $852 million that we show on the schedule.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you so much and good luck in 2015.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Levine of Imperial.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning.
I just wanted to be clear on the comments regarding the thoughts on replacing the Wheelabrator or the lost business in general at seven times multiple.
Firstly should we be assuming that – what should we be assuming for share repurchase in your 2015 guidance should I say? And then the seven times multiple you expect to pay is that strictly on the solid waste side of the business? Or maybe a little update with regard to your interest in energy waste and additional color regarding your assumptions there.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
So for the share repurchase you can assume that we offset dilution but that we're going to do it in the back half of the year.
So obviously there will be a little bit of an earnings effect because you're not replacing dilution right at the beginning of the year.
And so we would expect to do share repurchases to offset dilution.
And as far as energy services goes look there's two things going on with energy services right now.
On the price side and I think you may have heard that from some of the other calls earlier or last week I guess on the price side we're working with E&amp;P companies on addressing their price concession requests.
We'll see where that ends up.
On the volume side we do expect to see a slowdown in drilling.
I guess the good news is though that it seems to be hitting the big three the hardest those being Permian Bakken and Eagle Ford.
And we have no exposure in Permian and limited exposure in Bakken and Eagle Ford.
So it's also important to understand that our energy services business while it's a great business for us is still small as a percentage of our overall business.
And while we will feel some price and volume pressures there in 2015 I think we'll be able to make up that in the other parts of our manufacturing and industrial business such as coal ash and petrochemical plant production things like that.
Got it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And then Scott to the question of the replacement of the EBITDA the acquisitions that we do will be core solid waste or very closely related to core solid waste.
So we feel pretty comfortable that we can look at those type of acquisitions and understand exactly what kind of synergies we're going to get out of those right.
And so what we've always said is that we're not going to go out and pay a higher multiple than what we're trading at.
If I'm going to buy something at the multiple we're trading at and we've always used sort of the long-term 8.5 times EBITDA I'd rather buy back our own stock than buying a business I don't know.
And so post synergies we'd expect those type of acquisitions to on the high end come in at sort of the 7 to 8 times EBITDA and on the low end come in at sort of the 5 to 6 times EBITDA.
So somewhere between I would say generally when we're looking to replace the Wheelabrator divested EBITDA I would say that generally we're looking at larger acquisitions which trade a little bit higher than normal tuck-in acquisitions.
So I would say that the EBITDA there is going to be somewhere between 6 and 8 times.
We used 7 for our assumption and that assumption is made at least to us being able to replace the full amount of Wheelabrator EBITDA and still have a significant amount of cash proceeds left.
Right.
So to be clear you do see enough within the pipeline of that larger acquisition type you're talking within core solid waste to assign a high probability to your chances of replacing the bulk of that with good visibility by the middle of the year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
I would say – I wouldn't put high probability on it quite yet.
I think by midyear we'll know if there's a high probability.
We've got some good acquisition candidates but we've got to make sure that we can do a deal that works for both of them and for us.
And so we've talked to a few larger acquisition targets that it seems like we're on the same page.
We've talked to at least one where we're not on the same page where they wanted more like 11 to 12 times EBITDA.
And we basically said look we've got two choices.
We can either buy your business at 11 to 12 times EBITDA or we can go in and buy smaller businesses that mirror your geographic footprint and we could go in and do that.
And so we're not going to pay 11 to 12 times EBITDA.
We'd rather go out and buy smaller – in that geographic area we'd rather buy smaller companies.
So we do think there's some targets but before I say that I'm confident we can replace the Wheelabrator EBITDA we want to make sure that we're on the same page from a valuation point of view.
And like we said we should have a very good feel for that by midyear.
Okay.
We'll stay tuned.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your final question comes from the line of Barbara Noverini of Morningstar.
Hey.
Good morning everybody.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning.
When analyzing the acquisition landscape can you give us a general sense for the health of the recycling operations of tuck-in candidates that are similar in size to a Deffenbaugh for instance.
So if these businesses come with existing recycling contracts that are unattractive from a rebate standpoint let's say do you have to wait for these contracts to be rebid? Or can you improve the recycling economics of these tuck-ins immediately despite instituting some of the costs control you've talked about today? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Generally frankly the acquisitions that we're looking at really don't have a recycling component associated with them.
And quite honestly if they did have a recycling component associated with them we're either going to pay very little for it or we're actually going to subtract from it.
I think you hit the nail right on the head.
If they have bad recycling contracts that they can't get out of we're just not going to pay them for it.
Or we might even reduce the price because of those recycling contracts.
So when we look at the acquisition candidate what we're going to is we're going to pay for the business that we know.
We're going to pay for the business that we can very easily find out what kind of synergies we get.
And then we're not going to pay for the businesses where we don't have the synergies.
But you're also correct that if they did have a recycling component there's plenty of places where geographically we can then consolidate with our facilities.
So what I would say as a quick summation is that most of the assets that we're looking at buying don't have a strong residential recycling component to them.
To the extent that they do we would take that into account in connection with the value we pay for the business.
Got it.
That's helpful.
And then what is your appetite for acquisitions within energy services? So you had mentioned increasing market share so are you looking at this area in particular to deploy some of the Wheelabrator proceeds? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
We're probably looking at it a lot harder at $80 oil then $50 oil.
But look over the long-term I think that's going to be a very good business.
If we could get assets in that line of business at the right price we would certainly look at doing that.
But I would tell you that the right price today is not what the right price was six months ago.
And so it would have to be something where we would feel fairly confident that over the long-term we could make the business profitable.
Got it.
Thanks and great job this year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you all for joining our earnings call.
As you can see our team here at corporate and our team out in the field created some great momentum in 2014.
We fully expect that to continue through 2015.
And as we replace the Wheelabrator EBITDA in 2015 we're going to accelerate that growth into 2016.
So thank you all and we'll talk to you soon.
Thank you for participating in today's Waste Management conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 PM Eastern Standard Time today through 11:59 PM Eastern Standard Time March 3.
The conference ID number for the replay is 64356817.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 64356817.
The number to dial for the replay is 1-800-585-8367 855-859-2056 or 1-404-537-3406.
This concludes today's Waste Management conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Janisha and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the First Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
I will now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Ed Egl Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Mr.
Egl you may begin your conference.
Thank you Janisha.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our First quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are David Steiner President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Fish Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Trevathan Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before we get started please note that we have filed a Form 8-K this morning that includes the earnings press release and is available on our website at www.wm.com.
The Form 8-K the press release and the schedules to the press release include important information.
During the call you will hear forward-looking statements which are based on current expectations projections or opinions about future periods.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of these risks and uncertainties are discussed in today's press release and our filings with the SEC including our most recent Form 10-K.
David and Jim will discuss our results in the areas of yield and volume which unless otherwise stated are more specifically references to internal revenue growth or IRG from yield or volume.
Additionally any comparison unless otherwise stated will be with the first quarter of 2014.
For comparative purposes the first quarter of 2014 results have been adjusted to exclude certain amounts attributed to divested operations.
Please see a table attached to our press release for additional information.
During the call David and Jim will discuss our earnings per diluted share which they may refer to as EPS or earnings per share.
David and Jim will also address operating EBITDA and operating EBITDA margin as defined in the earnings press release and the Form 8-K filed today.
EPS effective tax rate income from operations income from operations margin operating EBITDA operating EBITDA margin operating cost operating cost as a percent of revenue SG&amp;A and SG&amp;A cost as a percent revenue results discussed during the call have been adjusted and EPS projections are anticipated to be adjusted to exclude items that management believes do not reflect our fundamental business performance or are not indicative of our results of operations.
These measures in addition to free cash flow are non-GAAP measures.
Please refer to the earnings press release footnote and the schedules to the Form 8-K filed today which can be found on the company's website at www.wm.com for reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures and additional information about our use of non-GAAP measures.
This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning approximately 1:00 PM Eastern Time today until 5:00 PM Eastern Time on May 13.
To hear a replay of the call over the Internet access the Waste Management website at www.wm.com.
To hear a telephonic replay of the call dial 855-859-2056 and enter reservation code 16632898.
Time-sensitive information provided during today's call which is occurring on April 29 2015 may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of Waste Management is prohibited.
Now I'll turn the call over to Waste Management's President and CEO David Steiner.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Ed and good morning from Houston.
We're very pleased that we earned $0.49 per share in the first quarter an increase of almost 9% from our 2014 first quarter results when adjusted to exclude the earnings from divested businesses and assets.
Our EPS increased despite $0.03 of year-over-year headwinds from lower recycling commodity prices and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency fluctuation.
Our field and corporate teams overcame those headwinds through continued improvement in our pricing and cost control programs.
This led to growth in income from operations operating EBITDA margins and free cash flow and marked a strong start to 2015.
These results were in line with our internal expectations and we expect to see continued improvement as we progress throughout the year.
During the first quarter we reinvested a portion of the proceeds from the sale of our waste-to-energy business.
We completed the acquisition of Deffenbaugh Disposal at a pre-synergy operating EBITDA multiple of just under 8.
Once fully integrated the acquisition should add about $52 million of annual operating EBITDA.
On the acquisition front we continue to have discussion with sellers but we'll remain disciplined and not overpay for assets.
If we cannot identify core businesses to acquire at reasonable prices we'll buy the business that we know the best ours by doing a share buyback.
Even if we do identify acquisition targets at reasonable prices we will still purchase at least enough shares to offset dilution and we'll begin buying those shares in the second quarter.
Turning back to our operations our pricing programs continued to drive earnings growth and margin expansion.
For the first quarter our collection and disposal core price was 4.4% and yield was 2%.
We've now seen eight consecutive quarters of yield at 2% or better.
In the first quarter of 2015 each of our lines of business had positive yield.
In the first quarter we also saw core price improve 20 basis points from the first quarter of 2014 to the highest level that we've achieved.
We also saw the highest core price ever in each of the commercial industrial and landfill lines of business Core price in the industrial line was 9.4% 6.6% in the commercial line 2.3% in our landfill line and 2.1% in our residential line.
This is a tremendous accomplishment by our team in light of depressed CPI levels.
So we continue to use core price to drive margin expansion.
And in the first quarter our traditional solid waste business income from operations margin increased 110 basis points and our operating EBITDA margin increased 130 basis points.
Clearly the trade-off of emphasizing core price over obtaining lower margin volume remains very positive for us.
Turning to volumes our traditional solid waste volumes declined 1.2% in the first quarter of 2015 versus a decline of 3.2% in 2014.
We saw some very positive trends in our commercial and industrial lines of business.
The losses in our commercial volumes improved 200 basis points from the first quarter of 2014 and industrial volume losses improved 520 basis points.
Both the commercial and industrial lines of business saw the lowest rate of decline in seven quarters.
So the volume trends are very positive.
The revenue trend was not as positive but it reflects the loss of low margin work that we intentionally shed.
Total company volumes declined $95 million or 3% in the first quarter.
The overall volume decline stems from a $51 million decline in national account contracts and residential business as we shed this low-margin business consistent with our revenue strategy.
We also saw a $43 million decline in our commodity-driven businesses from lower-recycling commodity sales driven by the West Coast port slowdown and to a lesser extent lower landfill gas-to-energy sales.
Consequently although total volumes are down more than we expected it's due primarily to volumes in lower margin lines of business while the volumes trends in our most profitable lines of business are encouraging and we expect the positive momentum to improve as we see our normal seasonal upturn.
Our recycling operations resulted in a $0.02 decline in earnings per share compared to the first quarter of 2014.
This decline is due to the more than 14% drop in average commodity prices for the quarter and an 8% decline in volumes associated with the slowdown in Western U.S.
ports and contractual losses as we renegotiate contracts to include improved processing fee and rebate structures.
On a positive note we've seen our operating costs improve as we tighten our enforcement on contaminated loads and our capacity utilization is at the highest level that we've seen.
However the operational improvements have not been enough to offset the decline in commodity prices so we will continue to look to improve operations and rationalize our recycling assets until we see the market improve.
Given the continued weakness in overall recycling commodity prices and lower volumes the full-year impact from our recycling business is now anticipated to be closer to negative $0.10 per share when compared to 2014 versus our original outlook of between negative $0.03 and negative $0.05 per share.
We also expect foreign currency translation to continue to be about a $0.01 per share headwind per quarter for the remainder of the year.
So 2015 is off to a strong start and we have the momentum to achieve our full-year goals of adjusted EPS of between $2.48 and $2.55 per share despite lower-than-expected recycling results and foreign currency translation headwinds.
We also expect to achieve our full year free cash flow guidance of between $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion.
As we move through the second quarter and see the seasonal upturn we expect to see continued improvement in our volumes.
Combined with our focus on cost and pricing this should lead to continued growth in earnings and free cash flow.
I'll now turn the call over to Jim to discuss our first quarter results in more detail.
Thanks David.
During the first quarter of 2015 we decided to refinance a significant portion of our high coupon senior notes.
As a result of the combination of a make-whole redemption and a cash tender offer to purchase certain senior notes the issuance of $1.8 billion of new senior notes we reduced the weighted average interest rate of our portfolio by 100 basis points extended the weighted average duration of these debt obligations by three years and reduced senior note debt by $181 million.
The after-tax charge for the early extinguishment of debt related to these financing transactions was $344 million.
We also had two balance sheet items in the quarter.
We had a true-up of the sale of our Wheelabrator subsidiary which reduced our gain on sale and we impaired a short-lived landfill asset.
Those two items negatively affected earnings by $0.03 per share but had no effect on free cash flow.
In the first quarter of 2015 our focus on reducing SG&amp;A cost continues to bear fruit.
Overall SG&amp;A cost declined $27 million compared to the first quarter of 2014.
When you adjust 2014 for the operations that we divested our year-over-year SG&amp;A cost improvement was $15 million consistent with our expectations for savings from our reorganization.
With the strong results in the first quarter we expect to achieve our full-year SG&amp;A goals of reducing SG&amp;A cost by $60 million.
Turning to cash flow for the first quarter free cash flow was $285 million in the first quarter of 2015 an improvement of $22 million when compared to the first quarter of 2014 excluding the $221 million of free cash flow related to operations divested in 2014.
Our capital expenditures for the quarter were $233 million $33 million less than the first quarter of 2014.
However we spent about the same about of capital as a percentage of revenue in both years.
Given the strong start to the year we still expect capital expenditures of approximately $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion.
And free cash flow in 2015 is expected to be between $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion.
First quarter revenues were $3 billion.
In addition to the $220 million impact from the divestitures and a $25 million impact from foreign currency fluctuations the lower fuel surcharge negatively affected revenues by $36 million.
Looking at internal revenue growth for the first quarter our collection and disposal core price was 4.4% with volumes declining 1.2%.
This led to total company income from operations growing $21 million operating income margin expanding 130 basis points operating EBITDA growing $11 million and operating EBITDA margin growing 140 basis points.
Our collection lines of business continue to see the benefit of the price/volume tradeoff.
Our commercial core price was 6.6%.
Our industrial core price was 9.4% and residential achieved 2.1% core price.
In addition to the continued strong momentum on pricing we saw some positive momentum in volume.
Commercial volumes were down 2.8% in the first quarter of 2015 versus a decline of 4.8% in 2014 a 200 basis point improvement and the best result in the past seven quarters.
Industrial volumes improved 520 basis points from a negative 5.7% in the first quarter of 2014 to a negative 0.5% in 2015.
In April we see industrial volumes turning positive for the first time since the first quarter of 2013.
Residential volumes declined 3.1% in the first quarter 2015 versus a decline of 3.5% in 2014 but those losses were generally intentional as we pushed price over volume in our residential line.
Overall collection core price was 5.7% with volumes declining 2.3%.
The volume change was a 220-basis-point improvement from the first quarter of 2014.
This core price and volume led to income from operations growing almost $14 million and margin expanding 140 basis points.
In the landfill line of business we saw the benefits of both positive volume and positive core price in the first quarter.
We saw same-store average MSW rates increase year-over-year for the eighth consecutive quarter up 1.2% from Q1 2014.
Combined special waste and revenue-generating cover volumes were a positive 2.3%.
MSW volumes grew by 5.7% and C&amp;D volume grew 10.9%.
Total landfill volume increased 1.8%.
This led to income from operations growing $2.5 million which is the eighth consecutive quarter of growth and margins grew 40 basis points.
We believe that weather had some impact on landfill volumes but the special waste pipeline looks strong so we expect to see positive landfill volumes all year.
Looking at our recycling line of business we had some challenges with low commodity prices and declining volumes.
The impact from our recycling business was a negative $0.02 per share in the first quarter when compared to the first quarter of 2014.
That decline would have been more than $0.05 per share if we'd not been taking steps to improve contracts and reduce operating costs.
Those steps included auditing inbound material to ensure compliance renegotiating contracts to recover the appropriate amount of processing costs and improving the quality of materials coming into our plants through consumer education.
We were also able to improve the overall operating efficiency of our plants.
As David mentioned we expect our recycling operations are going to be a headwind all year but we're seeing the results of our efforts to improve the operations.
When commodity prices rebound we're in a great position to see meaningful earnings improvements.
In the meantime we will curtail capital spending in our recycling operations which will allow us to allocate more of our $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion of capital spend to our core solid waste assets.
Moving to operating expenses we continue to see improvement in all of our cost lines.
With respect to total operating costs operating cost as a percent of revenue improved 130 basis points to 64% and improved $131 million in the first quarter after adjusting for divestitures.
$83 million of the improvement related to lower diesel costs and lower recycling commodity rebates to our customers.
We are also seeing the continued benefits from our service delivery optimization program and our labor costs as we see improved efficiency in all of our collection lines of business.
Labor and related benefits improved $17 million when compared to the first quarter of 2014.
The remaining savings were primarily driven by improvements in subcontractor costs.
Finally looking at our other financial metrics at the end of the first quarter our debt-to-total capital ratio was 62.3%.
Our expected 2015 weighted average cost of debt is 4.3% and the floating rate portion of our total debt portfolio was 9% at the end of the quarter.
In the first quarter we returned $176 million to our shareholders through our dividend.
As David mentioned we expect to return more cash to our shareholders in the second quarter as we look to repurchase shares to offset dilution.
Our income tax rate in the first quarter was 41%.
Adjusted for items excluded in our as-adjusted results the tax rate was 34.2% which is closely in line with our expected tax rate of approximately 35% for the full year.
To summarize our quarter with the exception of recycled commodity prices virtually all of our financial and operating metrics are tracking ahead of our internal expectations and our previous guidance.
We expect that to continue throughout 2015.
I want to thank all of our employees for their hard work in the first quarter.
I know that they will continue their focus to make 2015 a successful year.
And with that Janisha let's open the line for questions.
Your first question comes from the line of Corey Greendale of First Analysis.
Hey.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Corey.
Corey.
So first I apologize this is a little bit of a mechanical question but in the press release the internal growth numbers that you're giving are those adjusted for – are you pulling out divestitures in the denominator from the year prior period? Yeah we are pulling out divestitures.
Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Okay.
So in other words if you pull out divestitures volume was down 3% just based on the operations that you still have? That's correct.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's correct.
Yeah.
Okay.
Good.
Thank you.
I'm getting a slightly different number.
I'm not sure why.
But anyway so my question is it sounds like the core business is kind of moving in the right direction.
So could you just talk about a little bit more detail on the pieces that – where the volume is declining like national accounts.
Is that – are you seeing more aggression there? Do you think you're hitting the ceiling on what you can do in terms of pricing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Basically Corey that's the carryover of our largest national account that we lost last year and then two residential franchise contracts that we lost in our Southern Group last year.
And as you can imagine all of those contracts were single-digit margin and not revenue that we wanted to keep without significant price increases.
So that was business that we pretty much intentionally shed.
And the volume decline didn't accelerate Q4 correct? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Pardon? The volume was not down as significantly in Q4 as it was in Q1 of 2015.
Is that correct? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Corey when we look at it we look at the specific lines of business.
When you look at the commercial and industrial line they were actually improved from the fourth quarter.
On the commercial line we were down 3.5% in the fourth quarter.
We were only down 2.8% in the first.
On industrial we were down 0.9% the fourth quarter.
We were only down 0.5% in the first quarter.
And that's – really that what's you've got going on in our business.
What we're trying to say both in the scripts and in the press release is that we're seeing improving volumes in our most profitable lines of business.
We're seeing declining volumes in our less profitable lines of business like recycling and residential.
But even in residential you can see it getting a little bit better year-over-year by 40 basis points and it only went backwards 20 basis points from the fourth quarter to the first quarter.
Okay.
What I'm trying to get a sense of is just given the – what seems to be the improving environment overall.
And David I understand things are moving in the right direction on the commercial/industrial.
So the piece like residential for example is it getting more competitive for some reason than it has been over the past year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
No I wouldn't say it's getting more competitive.
I think residential has always been a very competitive line of business.
Look those are big contracts big slugs of revenue and generally you've got a lot of different bidders.
So there's always been aggressive players on the residential side.
Frankly I would say that we're seeing a little bit of more stability on the residential side as folks that have taken those low-margin contracts from us over the last few years start to realize they can't make a lot of money on them.
Especially Dave when you look at the capital that's necessary to fund those new contracts people are starting to look at it a little more diligently than we think in the past.
Corey just to give you a sense of – you asked about the volume in Q4 versus Q1 and you also asked about kind of the difference between 1.2% which is our traditional solid waste volume loss and 3%.
To answer the second one first the difference between the 1.2% and the 3% 0.8% of that is commodities 0.2% is renewable energy and then you got another 0.2% which is oil and gas and then you got 0.6% which is national accounts.
That 0.6% is $21 million and $18 million of that is Wal-Mart.
So to go from the 1.2% to the 3% it's largely commodities national accounts and energy services or oil and gas.
When you go from Q4 to negative 0.8% on volume to that negative 3% it doesn't look dramatically different.
In fact collections actually up as David mentioned collection was up 0.2% but then you've got energy services that was down 0.5% of that delta.
You have renewable energy that was down 0.4%.
You have oil and gas that was down 0.4% and recycling down 0.4%.
And then the other one that is – that changes from Q4 to Q1 is the landfills were down a bit versus Q4 and the reason for that is really special waste was a little softer than we thought probably largely because the weather in Q1 was quite a bit different than the weather in Q4.
Yeah.
Actually that's really helpful Jim.
And one other quick one then I'll turn it over.
Do you have an estimate of what the year-over-year impact – I'm assuming it was some benefit – was from lower fuel costs net of the lower surcharges? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
That was about $0.02 in the quarter.
But from our perspective you get lower fuel because you get the recovery from the fuel surcharge but we also have some oil and gas assets that we maintain.
And so when you look at the overall effect it was about flat.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey of Goldman Sachs.
Great.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Alex.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
A couple questions for you guys.
First thinking about the impact of the CPI on pricing.
Do you expect the impact from CPI to change pricing as we move through the balance of 2015? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
I don't think that we'll see a significant change in CPI.
But when we look at our pricing programs we try to look at them holistically and if CPI is lower then we just have to get those dollars from somewhere else.
And so if we get a bump from CPI that would be great.
But if we don't get that bump we're just going to have to pull those dollars from somewhere else and that's what we've been doing the last few years and that's what we'll do this year.
Got it.
Thanks David.
And then in the recycling business I'm not sure if you mentioned this but is there any EBITDA in that business right now? Right now it's...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well there's EBITDA because the depreciation.
There's not a lot of EBIT Well there's EBITDA.
There's not much EBIT yes.
The impact of EBIT income from operations was about negative $11 million year-over-year Alex.
Okay.
Okay.
Got it.
Got it.
And then just lastly is there any visibility on potentially seeing a benefit from coal ash volumes either towards the end of this year into 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We've got a nice contract that actually begins in the second half of the year.
It's not going to be – it's not going to move the needle significantly but it's a nice contract a few million dollars.
But we're having continuing discussions with all the various utilities and I'd expect that to be a nice volume stream for the next – gosh for the next 5 years to 10 years.
Appreciate the color.
I'll turn it over.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Certainly.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Levine of Imperial Capital.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
So I just want to focus on – I think Jim you mentioned a 60-basis-point volume headwind from national accounts and Wal-Mart.
To be clear is that all associated with contract changes within the past 12 months? Were there any additional changes this quarter and then maybe a little bit more elaboration on your thoughts on that business in general going forward? So I'll take that and then maybe Jim you can add to that.
Sure.
Yeah.
So for the quarter – and we expect – well the Wal-Mart that will anniversary in May so we won't see that headwind if you want to call it that.
It's a headwind on the revenue line.
It's not a headwind on the bottom line.
But that will anniversary in May.
We did lose some other contracts and some of them were intentional.
Some of them were not intentional.
We lost some due to aggressive pricing and it's a competitive marketplace for sure.
Jim what I would just add to that is that we are also winning new contracts.
We have won some business some additional business from current customers as well as some additional businesses that you'll see in future quarters.
But that roll-forward effect from some of those large losses like Wal-Mart will continue through at least the first half of the year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And when we look at that business from a philosophical point of view look we completely understand that sort of like the residential business there's some stiff competition there.
But particularly where we can get that front-end small-container work that we can tuck right into our operations and create that route density that's really the kind of work that we want to pick up.
The compactor work like the Wal-Mart business is generally lower margin and it doesn't really help us from a route density point of view.
And so our focus will be on that small-container business but we're obviously going to remain competitive in national accounts and we'd expect to continue to be the biggest player.
Got it.
And just to be clear and strictly for modeling purposes was Mal-Wart half of that 60 basis point volume impact or less than that or is it – just to make sure we model the volumes right for the rest of the year.
I think it was a little more than half Scott.
A little more than half.
Got it.
And then as my follow-up I think you mentioned plans to repurchase stock to offset dilution share dilution in the second quarter just kind of are you still holding off on call it the larger repurchase activity as you assess M&amp;A prospects and maybe a little bit more elaboration on your thoughts on the acquisition landscape? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
No that's exactly right.
So when we look at 2015 there's really two pieces to it.
There's what I'd call sort of our normal recurring stock buyback.
We generate a lot of free cash flow.
A good portion of that goes back to our shareholders through the dividend and traditionally the remainder goes back to our shareholders through a share repurchase and some of it goes into small tuck-in acquisitions.
In 2015 we're getting back to that and so what we're talking about doing in the second quarter I would characterize as part of our sort of normal recurring returning of cash to our shareholders.
On the redeployment of the Wheelabrator proceeds as we talk to sellers it's sort of interesting.
You've got really two things happening.
You've got expectations of price multiples which are probably a little higher than we expected but then you've also got some timing events right? You've got private sellers that might have family or estate issues.
And then you've got private equity sellers that might have funds that they want to hold for a number of years that have sort of a liquidation timeframe on them.
And so what we're battling is price expectations and timing expectations.
My guess is that by midyear we will know whether we can meet both timing and price expectations.
If we can't do that then we'll buy back stock.
Now that doesn't mean that we're not going to ultimately talk with those sellers and buy their business.
If they have timing expectations that don't mature for a year or 18 months we'll be talking to them in a year or 18 months and we'll buy them as part of our normal acquisition process.
And so in the middle of the year by sort of the end of the second quarter we would expect to be in a position where we're going to make a call where we say we will either buy those businesses with the proceeds or we'll buy back stock with the proceeds.
And if we don't buy those businesses with the proceeds you'll probably see us continue to look to buy them over the next couple years as their timing gets better.
Got it.
Thanks David.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Certainly.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Box of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Joe.
Inc.</span></strong> So just a clarification on volume.
Are we still thinking about volumes turning the corner later in the year and either flattening out on a total basis or even being up? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So let's sort of look at those profitable components that we talked about before.
On industrial we actually saw volumes turn positive in April.
They were only negative 0.5% in the quarter and we actually saw them turn positive in April.
So I would expect that we would see positive volumes from the industrial side going forward.
The landfill side has always been positive volume but we would expect to see that get better as we get to the seasonal upturn.
We had a little bit of a weather effect in the first quarter.
So we'd expect to see those volumes improve.
On the commercial side again we're 200 basis points better than we were in the first quarter of last year.
We're 70 basis points better than we were in the fourth quarter.
We would expect that sort of rate of improvement to continue such that by the end of the year I would expect that we'll be closer to flat on the commercial side.
So if you look at commercial being closer to flat industrial and landfill being positive I think that could lead to positive volumes by the end of the year in those three lines of business.
Now the headwinds you have are basically national accounts and the residential line of business.
Those will be slight drags but again those are low-margin drags so we're willing to live with those.
So when we look at the core solid waste business the negative 1.2% that we had in the first quarter we completely believe that by the end of the year those will be flat to positive such that our guidance for the year of negative 0.5% to flat volumes is still valid.
Joe when you think about how that volume that you talk about translates to top-line revenue the way we looked at the quarter was when we looked at collection disposal and transfer the revenue was up fairly decently at about $25 million.
And keep in mind that's almost all organic.
We really didn't have a lot in the way of acquisitions for the last 12 months so up $25 million.
The second factor of course was as we've talked a lot about this morning the negative revenue impact of recycle commodity prices and recycle volumes.
And that was a negative $70 million.
So – and then of course the third factor David just mentioned fuel surcharge FX and we've talked about the lower – the lost Walmart contract and some of the lost national accounts business.
But overall the volume numbers that we – the improvement that we're seeing in some of those volume numbers on the core side is translating to top-line revenue.
We weren't displeased with the $25 million in those three core businesses.
Inc.</span></strong> Well actually Jim so to that point maybe you can help me understand the disconnect here if I just add up the numbers that I have for collection disposal and transfer acknowledging that there is some component that's going to go into intercompany if I'm just adding it up I'm coming up with a flat number versus last year.
So are you stripping out FX to get to that $25 million? Are you stripping out fuel? What am I missing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No you're adding in price.
When you look at it from a total revenue point of view you've got to add the price in and as well as the volume component.
Inc.</span></strong> I'm just looking at total revenues and a flat year-over-year.
FX is not included in that $25 million.
So I've broken it into a couple of different buckets which was our core solid waste collection disposal transfer.
Those price and volume excluding divestitures was up $25 million...
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
...in revenue.
And then the second factor was a negative $70 million in recycling.
And the third factor was $36 million negative in fuel surcharge $25 million negative in FX and $21 million negative in national accounts.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thanks for the clarification.
So I'm just looking at the core solid waste business and I'm curious what are you specifically seeing that gives you the confidence that you can offset that incremental $0.05 to $0.07 headwind in recycling? Or is that just a moot point because you guys would prefer to address the guidance in 2Q? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
I mean look we see – what I would tell you is that we're much more confident now that we're going to get the dollars that we expect to get from our pricing program.
We continue to see good improvement on the cost side both on the SG&amp;A and on the operating cost side.
And then I'd say that we're probably a little more optimistic than we were at the beginning of the year from a volume perspective.
Again that's why this is a – it's an interesting quarter for us.
When we first looked at the quarter and saw the revenue decline we said wow what's going on? When we looked behind it we say we see some really good trends in our profitable lines of business.
We can't help the fact that we're going to lose $70 million of revenue on the recycling side because of commodity prices but when we look at our very profitable commercial industrial landfill lines we see some really positive trends there.
And so – and that was – all those positive trends occurred even though we had some negative weather in the first quarter.
So I would say that we're fairly bullish on the volume side.
We're extremely confident on the price side and we think we'll get a little bit more out of our cost programs than we expected at the beginning of the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thanks.
One last one for me then.
So why does recycling actually get worse as we move through the year sequentially? I mean it seems like pricing is somewhat bottomed and comps should get easier so why would the headwind actually get worse? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Well the price actually – I'm not sure if the price is bottomed or not.
It's as low as it's ever been but we haven't seen any indication of a bottom.
And so you've got some fairly tough comps in the second and third quarter gets a little bit better in the fourth quarter.
And then you've got the volume decline right the 8% volume decline.
We don't expect to see that improve throughout the course of the year.
And so basically it's mostly driven by commodity pricing and I would tell you that we're being a little bit conservative on that because we just don't see any catalyst out there that's going to drive the commodity prices up significantly.
Joe I think what you're probably thinking is why can't you just straight-line the $0.02 and come to $0.08.
And the reason is that commodity prices dropped throughout the quarter.
So we're looking at kind of straight lining from the commodity price in March which was the lowest of the three months.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
For the quarter it was down 14%.
For the month it was down 24%.
So we're basically extrapolating that low price across the rest of the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That clarification helps.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Al Kaschalk of Wedbush Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Al.
Good morning Al.
Inc.</span></strong> I want to continue on recycling.
Can you help us maybe appreciate for lack of better word the mix issue that you're dealing with and then secondly the contract structure issue that is probably a multi-year resolution to at the end of the day conclude that this macro theme that you set up for 20 million tons to handle recycled product still makes sense in the shareholders' mind? Yes.
So Al a couple of things on the – first of all on the contracts and the mix issue.
Each of these contracts has an expectation as to mix of commodities and when that mix changes we have to address that with the customer.
So for example we've talked quite a bit about glass over the last couple of quarters.
Glass is heavy so the customers may like it.
We don't like it as much.
It's the only commodity that we don't get paid for on the back end and we actually have to pay to get rid of it.
And so as glass goes up as an example then we have to address that with a customer if there are limitations mix limitations within their contract.
Similarly if there are contamination level restrictions.
So for example if a community has a restriction of 10% contamination levels and when we go through an audit and find that there are 20% then we have to recover some of that.
So part of what we're doing through our recycling team is really taking a tough stance on holding customers to contracts on contamination levels and material mix.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Jim I would that those two issues are absolutely related because some of the mix issues that are caused as cities and counties want to divert more waste add to the contamination level in some of those commodities and many of our older contracts don't allow us to charge.
That's what we're changing.
We're going in some of them in mid-contract and having some success.
Most of them though we'll wait until the contract ends until we can change the terms that allow us to get paid for their mix issue or their contamination issue.
Inc.</span></strong> So clearly a multi-year undertaking here? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Look there's two pieces to it.
There is fixing the mix and contract issue then it's fixing operations right? I mean we still have some opportunities to consolidate plants to drive out some operating costs.
And we think we can make some more headway there.
Like Jim said if it wasn't for the headway that we made in the first quarter it would have been a – if you look just at the price component it was a $0.05 problem.
We still think we've got some operating costs that we can pull out.
We're going to have to consolidate some plants and rationalize some assets.
And I think that's what customers need to realize is that we're not the only ones rationalizing assets.
The industry is rationalizing assets.
And unless we can work out a way where recycling is profitable over the long term there's not going to be recycling.
And customers certainly don't want to live with that.
So we just need to make sure that the customers understand that if they want glass recycled we need to get paid for it.
We actually lose or we lost in the quarter $6 million by recycling glass.
Long term that cannot be sustainable for Waste Management.
So we need to work with the customers to get them to understand the mix issues to understand the commodity markets so that we can make a long term viable business out of recycling.
Inc.</span></strong> But the progress to-date David has been slim.
Is that because the major customers or your larger customers in this area are not ready to discuss until contract comes up...? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah exactly.
Most of these contracts are long-term contracts and – look it's a long-term contract; we signed the contract.
We will live up to the contract.
But what they need to realize is we'll live up to that contract but we're not going to be there when the contract ends and nobody's going to be there when the contract ends.
So if they want us to maintain the facilities that we have in those markets we're going to have to get some relief from these contracts or we're going to just have to shutter the plants.
And so I would hope that customers would say let's take a long-term view at it rather than a short-term view.
But as you know as we generate $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion of free cash there's not a lot of sympathy for our losses in recycling.
Now I wouldn't characterize the progress as slim.
I think what's happened is it's been overshadowed by the real dramatic fall in commodity prices.
Look commodity prices were basically kind of – our average bucket of commodity prices was in the $100 range for the last two years last two and a half years.
$98 finished the year in 2014.
And all of a sudden it's gone from $98 to $82 and when we process between 6 million and 7 million tons a year that's a big price decline to absorb.
So we've made some good progress on controlling cost and on kind of holding customers to contract but man with such a dramatic commodity price decline it was hard to overcome it.
Inc.</span></strong> So – but you're not able to maybe take a little more aggressive action yourself and walk away from these contracts? Well we're looking at everything but it's hard to walk away from a contract at times.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I understand.
The follow-up then just a little bit more – David your comments about capital deployment or redeployment of the Wheelabrator proceeds it would seem to me that this is more a function of maybe some larger transactions that you're looking at than your traditional annual deals you're doing or even something of a Deffenbaugh size.
Could you comment on that? And if that's not the case then why wouldn't you be out in the market aggressively buying back stock particularly given today's reaction? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah exactly.
Well obviously that gives us more opportunity to buy back more stock.
And so you're exactly right.
I mean what we're looking at when we look at the Wheelabrator proceeds are looking at – we sort of look at it the exact same way.
We say we want another three Deffenbaughs right? And those are – there's not a lot of Deffenbaughs in the country.
And once you find that type of business you've got to overcome two hurdles.
One are they ready to sell? And two what do they want? What's the price that they want to sell? And I would tell you that at the beginning of the year we were pretty encouraged by what we saw on both of those fronts.
As we've got into deeper discussions with sellers we found out that some of them had bigger timing issues than we thought and some of them have higher pricing expectations than we thought.
And so – look that doesn't mean that we ultimately won't buy those businesses but it might mean that it's going to take us longer to buy those businesses and if that's the case then we do need to be out in the market buying back our stock because look as I said that's the business we know the best.
We're never going to pay a multiple higher than our own multiple because there's one business we know real well and that's ours.
And so I would guess that in the back half of the year we will be in the market more than just to cover dilution but if we can get to the point where we can get some of the sellers that we can meet their timing and their pricing expectations we would obviously much prefer to buy good core solid waste businesses at reasonable prices.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Redding of BB&amp;T.
Hi.
Good morning gentlemen.
Thanks for talking my call.
Good morning.
On the industrial side it certainly sounds like you're seeing improvement here.
I guess as we look ahead how do we rectify what looks to be slowing industrial production and a tough market for US exports with your expectation for stronger volume growth? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well it was mentioned earlier you've got the coal ash coming but you've also got a huge amount of construction being done along the chemical corridors right from Houston to Beaumont and up to Baton Rouge and up through Pennsylvania where you've got very low natural gas prices.
You've got some huge projects being built.
We expect to get good volumes out of that.
And then when you look at the residential and commercial construction those numbers look fairly strong.
So we think that the economy is going to be finally a little bit of a help to us on that side.
Now remember we also have a lot of those hauls in our energy services.
We really haven't seen a dramatic drop on the energy services side.
And so we've got well positioned in still some good shale plays there.
So we see pretty positive trends throughout the various sectors that drive industrial hauls for us Okay.
And then I guess just a little follow-up on Canada.
I realize it's relatively fractional for you but can you speak to perhaps what you're seeing there? And then I guess has the macro pullback had a material impact on the recent volume growth in the region? I think it's kind of the tale of kind of two parts of the country.
Western Canada is particularly Alberta is suffering a bit from the energy price decline.
Eastern Canada seems to be reasonably strong similar to kind of Northeast US is.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for taking my call.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Absolutely.
Your next question comes from the line of Tyler Brown of Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Just Jim can you help us out on the cadence of cash flow and just why Q1 was such a large working capital drag? I don't know if that was the cash taxes paid on Wheelabrator or if your cash conversion cycle creeped? And then maybe how do we think about the full-year impact of working capital in your cash from ops guidance? So a couple of things running through working capital worth mentioning here.
First of all our – you may recall that in – for our bonus payout our annual incentive comp payout that would have paid out in March of 2014 we accelerated a piece of that into December of 2013.
So it was a 2013 year annual incentive comp but it was – a portion of it was paid out in 2013.
We did not do that this year.
So we knew we were going to have a working capital negative headwind in March of this year and that amounted to about $65 million.
Most of that was that acceleration.
A piece of it was just a higher payout from year 2014 versus year 2013.
That was – totaled about $65 million as a headwind.
We also had about $21 million in non-recurring mostly non-recurring cash payout for the 2014 restructuring.
We've got about $12 million left and that will spread out over the next three quarters.
But we had $21 million in Q1 that is for the most part non-recurring and that's a payout of our 2014 restructuring.
And then in addition to that we had – in 2014 we had a benefit a $36 million benefit from the settlement of a forward-starting swap that didn't repeat of course this year.
So when you think about year-over-year the negatives were those.
The positive was EBITDA was up.
And then the other positives were that we continue to make headway on managing working capital on DSO and DPO particularly DPO was up 2.1 days DSO up 0.6 days.
So we're starting to narrow the gap pretty significantly there from a couple of years ago.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So is working capital a drag in cash from ops guidance or is it neutral? Well I think working capital is certainly a drag in Q1.
There will be some positives coming up as we look at the remainder of the year.
So for example the San Jacinto settlement of last year that won't repeat.
And so that will be a tailwind for us on working capital.
And as I mentioned we shouldn't have those – that cash impact from the restructuring starts to taper off pretty dramatically in Q2.
And of course the bonus headwind from the incentive comp payouts and the acceleration of that that doesn't recur either.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then follow-up here.
I just want to understand CapEx just a little bit better.
So if I look at trailing 12 months CapEx and if I even adjust for divestitures you guys are about 8.5% of sales.
I think there's a common convention or belief out there that you need to be north of call it 9% of sales on a pure maintenance basis.
So am I missing something there or how do you bridge the gap the differential in the CapEx? We've said that – we kind of gave a number of 8.3% to 9%.
I think we gave that last year.
First quarter is historically slow.
We were – the number I had was 7.7% of revenue in the first quarter and – but if I look at Q1 of 2014 it was 7.8%.
If I look at Q1 of 2013 it was 7.9%.
So not way out of range with those two years' first quarters.
We expect that 2015 actually is going to be in that $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion range which is a bit of a headwind for us in terms of free cash flow because last year we only spent $1.15 billion.
So we're going to spend somewhere between $50 million and $150 million more in CapEx.
And clearly on a percent of revenue without the Wheelabrator assets that will be a higher percentage of revenue.
So I think 2015 not only is it going to be higher in absolute dollars it's going to be higher as a percent of revenue.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just maybe if I can squeeze one last in here thinking about capital structure.
But you guys have kind of swept some of the Wheelabrator proceeds the net proceeds I should say maybe to Deffenbaugh.
You had your note repayment.
Maybe you've de-levered a little bit.
But I've got you at about call it 2.7 on the leverage.
You got $300 million in cash.
So when we think about future capital deployment is the idea that you would re-lever to do so? And if so what is kind of the level of leverage you're willing to go to or what's your kind of optimal capital structure? Yes.
So if I think of us as being in kind of that 2.78 leverage ratio range yeah I would expect that to increase slightly as we acquire some businesses to replace Wheelabrator going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Perfect.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your final question comes from the line of Michael Hoffman of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you for taking my questions.
So cold or allergies David? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Allergies for me.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Poor thing.
Jim can we do a little bit of a waterfall to try and reconcile 2014 EPS and the guidance for 2015? If I understand everything you've given us and thanks for the data I should take $0.18 out of last year's number for all the divestments and then I need to take $0.10 out for recycling and $0.04 for currency and that kind of gives me a starting place add in buybacks and then I get growth.
That's the kind of how to – is that the right way to think about it? Yeah.
And there's some interest expense savings in there too.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Interest expense would be a part of that.
Okay.
So getting back to the growth then aspect of this and then the solid waste side and you may have given this data and I pardon you were just – there was so much of it I'm not sure I got it all written down.
But weight per yard trends in your front-end loader business had exited 2014 on a positive trend line.
What's that trend line coming through the first half of the year at this point? And where does it sort of set in your mind about that cycle of service interval upgrades that create such operating leverage? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Michael when we look at the commercial line of business I'll give you a few reasons why we're optimistic.
First is you're right.
The weights continued through the first quarter we saw improvement there.
We saw service increases exceed service decreases so there's some good news there.
But frankly the best news that I've seen on the commercial line of business we just went through reviews with our 17 market areas and 12 of our 17 market areas had net positive new business in the first quarter.
The other good part of that news is that over two-thirds of that new business was greenfield projects new businesses that are created not stealing share from somebody else.
And so I think what you're seeing is a better secular trend and what you're seeing is that we're taking advantage of that better secular trend.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So following through with that then on your C&amp;D side of the business on the pulls what's the trend in absolute number of pulls and then revenue per pull how's that trend look like? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
The revenue per pull is nicely improving.
On the number of pulls frankly I don't have the actual number of pulls.
I know what the percentage increase was.
But you saw 10.9% volume in the landfill and so I would assume that equates to a pretty healthy increase in the number of pulls.
I think it was down slightly in terms of revenue pulls which pretty much correlates to the volume number that we talked about but it was down slightly and part of that as David mentioned early in the call Michael was in energy services.
I mean you're down 50% in rigs.
Fortunately we were able to replace some of that revenue so we're not down as much as the rig count of course but it did affect the hauling side of the business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So what I was really trying to get at too is and you alluded to this to one other question if I remember correctly pretty much the whole industry assumed going into this year that residential construction would hold at about 1 million starts.
Somebody was looking for it to be better but so far the data set would suggest that maybe that trend is better one.
And two the non-residential construction ex oil and gas and energy broadly if you will power and oil and gas which had been a positive into 2014.
All of the other components commercial lodging office and what have you actually just struck a bottom in 2014 and started to turn a corner.
Are you seeing that corner turn in both...? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean look I think that's exactly right Michael.
I mean look we're not going to call a dramatic turn but I do think that we for the first time in two years we're willing to say that there is a good secular trend going on that we see continuing.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
And then on the recycling side if $98 was the number for blended commodities in December and $82 is 1Q what's the blended commodity dollar number given the current cost structure of recycling business to be breakeven on an EBIT basis? What do you need that to be? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Breakeven is probably in the $78 to $80 range.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then on free cash flow when do I see working through the cash flow from ops? There's $200 million in non-recurring tax situation.
When do I see that walk its way through? Is that spread out through the whole year or there's a tax filing in I think 2Q and 4Q? Is it a 2Q and 4Q issue? Yes.
Well we pay in all three quarters.
We kind of make a double payment in Q2 and Q4.
So you'll start to see it in Q2 and it will carry through the rest of the year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So I should see a little bit of above average cash flow from ops as a percent of revenues in 2Q? Yeah.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I mean none of that $210 million Michael showed up because we didn't make any federal tax payments in Q1.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
So stripping that away and looking at the sort of recurring number 1.2% to 1.3% what do you think based on what you're looking at the business today the embedded recurring growth rate of that 1.2% to 1.3% would be as I look forward? Is that mid-single digits high-single...? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think you're looking at basically sort of that 5% to 7% compounded growth rate.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then two housekeeping questions just because I'm a little confused.
On page 6 of your 8-K you have a nice table...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Michael that's a little bit obtuse for us.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> What's that page 6 of the 8-K? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Going to a specific page of the 10-K...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Sorry.
But you have these great tables you've given and you talk about landfill volume up but the tons number you have in the document actually has it down versus a year ago.
You were 21.3 a year ago and you're 20.9.
So I'm trying to reconcile the script and the data that's in the document.
Hey Michael.
That's all intercompany volume based.
Our intercompany volume is down.
Third-party volumes are up.
That's the difference.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Perfect.
That's great.
And then as I think about the fuel I mean I had more cost saves than I did revs in 1Q but I would assume that that gap narrows through the rest of the year and it's less of – it's more of just a net offset to each other as I work through the year.
That's a timing difference of the surcharge comes back slower than the savings hit? Yeah that's correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And I should try and just smooth that out through the remainder of the year and it kind of nets itself out by the end of the year? Correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's all I needed.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Michael.
I will now turn the call over to CEO David Steiner for closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you.
Well obviously we at Waste Management had a very good quarter.
But when we look beyond Waste Management and look at the overall industry as we said with Michael we see improving industry fundamentals with the pricing environment stable and the volume environment improving.
So we look forward to capitalizing on those improving industry fundamentals and continuing to gain momentum throughout 2015 and into 2016.
And with that we'll see you next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you for participating in today's Waste Management's conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 PM Eastern Standard Time today through 11:59 PM Eastern Standard Time on May 13.
The conference ID number for the replay is 16632898.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 16632898.
The number to dial for the replay is 855-859-2056.
This concludes today's Waste Management's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Janisha and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speaker’s remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Ed Egl Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Mr.
Egl.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you Janisha.
Good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining us for our second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are David Steiner President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Fish Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Trevathan Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before we get started please note that we have filed a Form 8-K this morning that includes the earnings press release and is available on our website at www.wm.com.
Form 8-K the press release and the schedules to the press release include important information.
During the call you will hear forward-looking statements which are based on current expectations projections or opinions about future periods.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of these risks and uncertainties are discussed in today's press release and our filings with the SEC including our most recent Form 10-K.
David and Jim will discuss our results in the areas of yield and volume which unless otherwise stated are more specifically references to internal revenue growth or IRG from yield or volume.
Additionally any comparison unless otherwise stated will be with the second quarter of 2014.
During the call David and Jim will discuss our earnings per diluted share which they may refer to as EPS or earnings per share.
David and Jim will also address operating EBITDA and operating EBITDA margin as defined in the earnings press release.
EPS effective tax rate income from operations income from operations margin operating EBITDA operating EBITDA margin operating cost operating cost as a percent of revenue SG&amp;A and SG&amp;A as a percent revenue results discussed during the call have been adjusted and EPS projections are anticipated to be adjusted to enhance comparability or exclude items that management believes do not reflect our fundamental business performance or results of operations.
Specifically for comparative purposes the second quarter of 2014 results have been adjusted to exclude certain amounts attributed to divested operations.
These adjusted measures in addition to free cash flow are non-GAAP measures.
Please refer to the earnings press release footnote and schedules which can be found on the company's website at www.wm.com for reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures and additional information about our use of non-GAAP measures.
This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning approximately 1 p.m.
Eastern Time today until 5 p.m.
Eastern Time on August 6.
To hear a replay of the call over the Internet access the Waste Management website at www.wm.com.
To hear a telephonic replay of the call dial (855) 859-2056 and enter reservation code 64809894.
Time-sensitive information provided during today's call which is occurring on July 23 2015 may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of Waste Management is prohibited.
Now I'll turn the call over to Waste Management's President and CEO David Steiner.
Thanks Ed.
Good morning from Houston.
Our strong second quarter results reflect our continued commitment to disciplined core price growth and cost controls combined with improving volumes all positive trends that we expect to continue throughout the second half of the year.
In the second quarter we earned $0.67 per share an increase of almost 16% from the second quarter of 2014 to excluding the earnings from divested businesses and assets.
Our net income operating income and margin operating EBITDA and margin and earnings per diluted share all improved when compared to the second quarter of 2014 despite year-over-year headwinds of $0.03 per diluted share from lower recycling commodity prices and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency fluctuations.
We also saw our business generates significant cash as our cash provided by operating activities increased 47% and our free cash flow grew 30%.
We are pleased with these results and we expect the positive momentum to continue to build through 2015 and into 2016.
Our pricing programs continued to be a big part of our earnings growth and margin expansion and our strategy remains the same.
Continue our focus on core price while selectively adding the right new volumes.
For the second quarter our collection and disposal core price was 4.1% and yield was 1.7%.
Year-to-date through June core price was 4.3% which exceeded our 2015 core price target of 3.8% and yield was 1.9%.
As we said in the past core price is a better indicator of true pricing activities because mix issues can affect our yield results as we saw in the second quarter.
As bottomline dollars that count in core price reflects the bottomline impact from pricing.
So while we said that yield would be around 2% of the year we are not concerned with the slight drop in yield as the absolute dollars to the bottomline from pricing remained on track and our core price remains robust.
Over the last six quarters core price has been consistently over 4%.
In the second quarter we saw core price improved 10 basis points from the second quarter of 2014.
When compared to the second quarter of 2014 core price in the industrial line was 8.6% in the commercial line it was 5.8% 2.1% in our residential line and 2.3% in our landfill line.
As we saw in the first quarter core price continues to drive margin expansion as our traditional solid waste business operating EBITDA margin increased 40 basis points.
So pricing efforts are right on track and we expect that to continue in an improving volume market.
With respect to volumes we look at our traditional solid waste business volumes which excludes recycling and non-unit or non-solid waste revenues.
Our traditional solid waste business declined 0.6% in the second quarter of 2015 versus a decline of 2.3% in the second quarter of 2014 170 basis point year-over-year improvement and a 60 basis point sequential improvement from the 1.2% decline in the first quarter of 2015.
Overall volumes which includes recycling and those non-solid waste volumes declined 1.3% in the second quarter compared to the negative 3% reported in the first quarter of 2015 a sequential improvement of 170 basis points.
Although overall volumes continued to be negative we saw some positive signs in the second quarter.
In our industrial line of business we had very strong new business pricing yet volume was 270 basis points improved year-over-year improving from negative 2.7% to flat in the second quarter 2015 which reflects a robust market.
We also saw the rate of decline in our commercial line of business improved again as the rate of loss in commercial volumes improved 280 basis points compared to the second quarter of 2014 and 60 basis points sequential from a negative 2.8% in the first quarter of 2015 to a negative 2.2% in the second quarter 2015 and the momentum improved throughout the quarter with June showing better volumes than April and May.
We also saw service increases exceed decreases in the quarter.
Finally new business in our commercial and industrial lines combined exceeded loss business for the first time in three years.
So we are predicting a dramatic and fast turn to positive volumes but we continue to see the light at the end of the volume tunnel and we would expect volumes to strengthen through the rest of 2015 and into 2016.
Turning to recycling as you heard us saying many times the current recycling model is broken and we and the entire industry need to fix it.
We have seen progress in our recycling operations but the issues are complex and it’s not an overnight fix.
We are also working together with our customers vendors and industry groups and we have made progress as we are finding some acceptance for better contract terms and higher fees to offset the higher processing costs that we are experiencing.
We are working with customers and municipalities on educating the public on what and how to recycle to bring down contamination levels and on the true cost of recycling.
We and our entire industry realize that recycling is the right thing for our customers and the environment.
We need to make sure that it’s not only the right thing to do but it’s also a sustainable business.
Moving to current results from our recycling operations in the second quarter we had a $0.02 decline in earnings per share compared to the second quarter of 2014.
This decline is due to the more than 13% drop in average commodity prices for the quarter and a 5.7% decline in volumes associated with contractual losses as we shed unprofitable volumes.
Our recycling employees continued to perform at high levels working to reduce operating costs.
In the second quarter operating costs continued to improve as we saw an 8% improvement in our operating cost per ton compared to 2014.
We expect to continue to see improvements in the second half of the year but low commodity prices will continue to be a challenge.
With respect to the deployment of our free cash flow from operations in our Wheelabrator divestiture we will continue to seek a balanced approach to buying solid waste businesses repurchasing shares and maintaining the strong yield through our dividend.
With respect to acquisitions we believe that in 2015 we can execute agreements to add an additional $50 million to $75 million of operating EBITDA.
We would likely close those acquisitions in 2016.
In the second quarter we repurchased $300 million of our outstanding shares and we will repurchase an additional $300 million in the third quarter because I had a 10b5-1 trading plan in place in the second quarter I personally purchased $2 million worth of Waste Management shares.
In the fourth quarter we will determine if we have additional acquisition candidates likely to occur or if we want to deploy cash to repurchase shares.
And of course we will continue to maintain a strong dividend and a strong balance sheet.
In conclusion we're pleased with the strong results to the first half of 2015.
When we combine the first half results with our outlook for continued price and cost control discipline and improving volumes we are confident that we can achieve our full year guidance.
We now expect that our 2015 adjusted earnings per diluted share should be at the high-end of our previously announced guidance of between $2.48 and $2.55 per share despite negative headwinds to diluted earnings per share of between $0.07 and $0.10 from recycling operation and about $0.04 from the impact of foreign currency translation adjustments.
We also expect to achieve the upper end of our free cash flow guidance of between $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion.
So the year is playing out pretty much as we expected but our people are doing what they need to do to offset the recycling and currency headwind.
Their efforts have been extraordinary and on behalf of the entire senior leadership team we thank them for their excellent.
I'll now turn the call over to Jim to discuss our second quarter results in more detail.
Thank you David.
In the second quarter of 2015 our focus on reducing SG&amp;A costs continues to bear a fruit.
Overall SG&amp;A cost declined $31 million compared to the second quarter of 2014.
When you adjust 2014 for the operations that we divested our year-over-year SG&amp;A cost improvement was $18 million consistent with our expectations for savings from our reorganization.
As percent of revenue SG&amp;A costs were 9.7% an improvement of 40 basis points compared to the second quarter of 2014.
With the strong results in the first half of 2014 we expect to achieve our full-year SG&amp;A goals of reducing SG&amp;A cost by $60 million.
Turning to cash flow for the second quarter net cash provided by operating activities was $816 million compared to $555 million in the second quarter of 2014 an improvement of $261 million with a reduction in cash taxes accounting for $216 million of the increase.
Free cash flow was $579 million in the second quarter of 2015 an increase of $245 million when excluding free cash flow from operations divested in 2014.
Our capital expenditures for the quarter were $296 million $88 million more than the second quarter 2014 as a portion of our expected increased fleet spend occurred in the second quarter.
Excluding the cash tax benefit free cash flow grew almost 9% compared to the second quarter 2014 despite an increase in capital spending.
Given the level of expenditures in the first half of 2015 we expect capital expenditures to be at the high-end of our guidance range of $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion.
Despite that free cash flow for 2015 is also expected to be at the high end of our guidance range of between $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion.
Second quarter revenues were $3.3 billion.
We saw $54 million increase revenues from acquisitions and $34 million increase in our traditional solid waste business.
The overall revenue decline stemmed from $193 million decline from divestitures a $59 million decline from lower recycling revenues $45 million in lower fuel surcharge revenues and $27 million in foreign currency fluctuations.
Looking at internal revenue growth in the second quarter our collection in disposal core price was 4.1% with total volumes declining 1.3%.
This led to total company income from operations growing $12 million operating income margin expanding 60 basis points operating EBITDA growing $11 million and operating EBITDA margin growing 80 basis points.
These results were strong and that much more encouraging when you consider about $30 million benefits we realized in the second quarter of 2014 that did not repeat in 2015.
Our collection lines of business continue to see the benefit of the price volume trade-off.
As David said our internal -- our industrial core price was 8.6% our commercial core price was 5.8% and residential achieved 2.1% core price.
In addition to the continued strong momentum in pricing we saw some positive momentum in volume.
Commercial volumes were down 2.2% in the second quarter of 2015 versus a decline of 5% since 2014 a 280 basis point improvement.
Industrial volumes improved 270 basis points from a negative 2.7% in the second quarter of 2014 to flat in 2015.
And outside of energy services our industrial volumes were positive.
Residential volumes declined 3.6% in the second quarter of 2015 versus a decline of 3.8% in 2014.
The residential line of business remains competitive and we remain focused on retaining and growing where our internal investment is accretive to shareholders.
This core price in volume led to income from operations growing more than $3 million and margin expanding 30 basis points and operating EBITDA growing more than $8 million and margin expanding 70 basis points.
In the landfill line of business we saw the benefits of both positive volume and positive core price in the second quarter.
We saw same-store average MSW rates increase year-over-year for the ninth consecutive quarter up 1.4% from Q2 2014.
Combined special waste and revenue-generating cover volumes were positive 4.3% MSW volumes grew by 7.2% and C&amp;D volume grew 7.3%.
Total landfill volumes increased 3.2%.
This led to income from operations growing $9 million and operating margin grew 70 basis points.
Operating EBITDA grew $16 million and margin expanded 140 basis points.
Moving to operating expenses.
As a percent of revenue operating costs improved 60 basis points to 63.6%.
Lower diesel costs and lower recycling commodity rebates to our customers improved by $68 million.
Labor and related benefits improved $21 million when compared to the second quarter of 2014 as we continue to see the improvement of our service delivery optimization program.
These savings were partially offset by increased disposal costs related to our improved volumes and an increase in risk management cost.
Overall operating cost improved $56 million in second quarter after adjusting for the divestitures.
Finally looking at our other financial metrics.
At the end of the second quarter our debt to total capital ratio was 62.7% and our weighted average cost of debt is 4.4%.
The floating rate portion of our total debt portfolio was 9% at the end of the quarter.
In the second quarter we repurchased 6.1 million of our outstanding shares for $300 million and paid $175 million in dividends.
The $475 million reflects our confidence in the cash generation of our business and commitment to return cash to our shareholders.
Our income tax rate in the second quarter was 29.6%.
Adjusting for items excluded in our as adjusted results tax rate was 30.9%.
In the second quarter 2015 a reduction in deferred taxes and utilization of state net operating loss -- losses benefited earnings per share by $0.02.
In summary our second quarter results continue to show the momentum that we saw in the first quarter and positions us well to achieve our full-year guidance.
This would not have been possible without the hard work and dedication of all of our employees.
And for that I want to thank them.
For more than halfway through the year we were very confident that we’ll have a successful year.
With that Janisha let’s open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Corey Greendale of First Analysis.
Hey good morning.
Hey Corey.
Hey Corey.
Just a few questions.
So first of all I appreciate the update on progress and some of your discussions on the structure of your recycling contracts.
Just wondering given that commodity prices have come off the bottom somewhat is that impacting those conversations or customers' willingness to engage in changes? No really the prices haven’t come up the bottom.
I mean to the extent they have come up the bottom.
It’s been very marginal.
So we’re still relatively close to sort of breakeven when it comes to processing cost versus commodity sales.
So no the impact if anything I think the discussions have become more pronounced with the customer.
And I think more and more as you see more folks like you all in the financial community and more folks in the general press understanding the issues facing recycling.
I would say those issues are more and more coming to the front rather than going back.
Corey when you look at the weighted average commodity prices it was about $83 in Q1 and $83 in Q2.
So really the improvement we’re seeing is through our cost efforts on cost of good sold and operating cost.
Okay yes it is more -- at least the numbers I have seen it is more in July that came more meaningfully off the bottom but I'm looking at OCC and newsprint primarily so maybe the… Yeah.
OCC seems to have stabilized a little bit but still at low levels.
Okay.
Then the next question David clearly the tenor on the volume environment is getting increasingly positive.
I just want to make sure I am hearing you correctly.
I think you are saying you would expect volumes to get kind of increasingly less negative each quarter in the back half but you are not necessarily calling for it to go positive but just want to clarify that? Yeah.
And you know what we're trying to do in order to give you even a little bit more clarity is to separate it between what we’re calling sort of our core solid waste volumes than overall volumes.
And so when we look at it we look at those core solid waste volumes which were negative 0.6% in the quarter.
And we would expect that to improve in the third quarter and in the fourth quarter so that look we are not going to try to predict a turn to positive volumes we said this year that we didn't think volumes were going to get positive.
But I would expect us by the end of the year to be at a run rate where we’re actually flat to positive on volumes.
Okay great.
And then a question on the free cash flow I am just trying to understand the moving pieces particularly related to cash tax payments.
I think last year you had a $210 million hit from early payment of taxes and net benefits this year.
Can you clarify is that the right number? Have we already seen that whole benefit? And what should we expect in free cash flow breakout between Q3 and Q4? Yeah.
So that’s right $210 million was kind of the early payments in Q4 of last year.
So we kind of backed out $216 million to get to a number where we think that's for the year.
And particularly by the way when you look at cash from operations and free cash flow both of those if you normalize those for those taxes and if you normalize free cash flow for CapEx we’re in a position where we've actually overcome the WTI divestiture which is pretty amazing in and of itself.
For the remainder of the year if you tackle on what we think was -- is achievable which was last year -- last year's cash flow from operations and essentially that’s what we did for the first two quarters if you tack that on and that’s what we’re forecasting then you get to a number that's in $1.5 range for free cash flow.
And Jim without asking for kind of operational guidance for 2016 if you just look at movement in cash taxes would you expect that free cash flow would be up in ‘16 or could it be down because of a movement in cash taxes? Yeah.
If I take our guidance for this year at $1.5 and I normalize that for the cash tax benefits and CapEx a little bit.
It's hard to say exactly what CapEx is going to be next year.
I get to a pretty good starting point of about 13.5 to 14.0.
Not that we’re going to give you a lot of guidance just yet.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey of Goldman Sachs.
This is actually Usha Guntupalli on for Alex.
How are you? Good morning.
Doing well.
Great.
One more question on recycling assuming commodity prices stay flat at current levels you are obviously working on reducing costs in this business but when you expect the business to turn earnings positive at current commodity prices? Yeah.
We’re earning in positive actually at current prices.
Just slightly EBIT positive and certainly positive from an EBITDA point of view.
So we didn’t lose money in recycling in the quarter.
We just did $0.02 worse than we did last year.
So it’s a year-over-year comparison.
So we are slightly EBIT positive but certainly not EBIT positive enough to earn our return on capital to earn our weighted average cost of capital.
So that's why we’ve got to get those earnings up.
Got it.
That's helpful.
And on the yield yield seemed to have slowed in the second quarter and you did mention part of it was just mix.
Could you give us more color on what was driving that mix? Yeah.
When you look at yield versus core price it's why quite a while ago we started talking more about core price because really core price is what drives dollars to the bottom line.
When we look at yield there's a lot of different factors that can play into that.
I will let Jim talk about a few of the ways that yield can -- I guess the point is that yield is indicative of pricing but it's really sort of directional whereas core price is truly indicative of what's going on in our pricing programs.
But I will let Jim talk a little bit about difference between yield and core price.
Yeah.
I think probably a good example of that is our Energy Services business.
Typically that business has a longer quite a bit longer length of haul than our ordinary business.
So due to that longer length of haul that business has a higher unit price and a higher yield but not a higher core price or profitability per unit.
So as the Energy Services business has slowed due to the falling oil prices we've seen a decline in yield but not a decline in core price or unit profit.
Dave and Jim you also mentioned that we improved in the new business side on a net basis.
When we add new business in markets that have a lower average unit rate not a lower profitability measurement or lower margin but a lower average unit rate and that's what happened in Q2.
And/or we lose business in markets with higher or lower average unit rates that effects yield and that’s what happened in Q2.
But it has no effect on margin or core price.
Yeah.
You can imagine just to sort of put some color around what Jim Trevathan said.
You can imagine that right now there is a lot of growth in Texas and Texas has lower landfill rates than you have in the Northeast and hence you’ve got a little bit lower pricing but you also have very high profitability.
So it's not a profitability issue.
It is just the fact that because you have lower landfill pricing in Texas than you do in the Northeast you'll have lower unit cost and unit pricing for when you offer new services.
And so as you’ve seen more growth in places like Texas where it's very profitable but it is just a lower unit rate versus the Northeast that's what drives sort of those mix issues.
And so when we look at that we say okay the yield is down but profitability is up.
That’s not such a bad thing.
And that's why we say really what you have to look at is overall across our entire business what are we doing from a price increase point of view because price increases takes mix out of the mix.
And so core price is really the true indication of what we're doing.
And as you saw with core price of 8.6% industrial and 5.8% in commercial it's still running at a pretty hefty rate.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Box of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Joe.
I just want to review the capital deployment strategy post Wheelabrator.
Obviously you guys have Deffenbaugh under your belt and I know you have got $50 million to $75 million of EBITDA lined up from deals that are going to go next year.
Just curious if you have gotten all the deals done that you’ve expected because externally it looks like or it seems like that you guys are shooting for more deals when you sold Wheelabrator.
And then just as a quick follow-up to that the items that you lined -- the items that you mentioned in the pipeline are those solid waste companies or are they outside of solid waste? Yeah.
When we are looking at companies they are all going to be solid waste.
We really wouldn't look to stretch outside of sort of our core business when we are doing acquisitions.
The acquisition -- you always think that you are going to have this money to spend.
There is plenty of people out there to sell and it should be fairly easy to replace the EBITDA.
And then once you get into the market you realize there's a hundred different issues that affect sellers right sometimes their family businesses.
And it's hard to get the family over.
Sometimes there's higher expectations for pricing.
And so when we went into it we said look if we can replace the Wheelabrator EBITDA at good accretive multiples we will do it.
The good news for us is if we can’t we can still buy back stock and it would still be accretive to where we were with Wheelabrator.
So we were sort of in a win-win situation.
And rather than run out sort of in undisciplined manner just pay whatever we needed to pay to replace the Wheelabrator EBITDA we decided to take a little bit more of a disciplined approach focus on our core solid waste business and see if we can't go out and do deals that are nicely accretive for our shareholders.
And so what we like to when we prefer to buy businesses that replaced the EBITDA rather than buying back shares sure we would because that's a little bit more accretive for our shareholders.
But we’ve got to maintain our discipline on pricing and we’ve got to realized that sometimes these acquisitions have to brew for a little while before they're ready and sellers have to come around to the fact that they're ready to sell.
And so we certainly think that overtime we will replace that roughly $200 million of EBITDA from Wheelabrator.
It’s just not going to happen overnight.
And Joe as I said earlier to Cory's question we've kind of afforded ourselves the luxury of really being disciplined here because we really have.
If you look at our second quarter you look at our net cash from property activities and you back out the cash tax benefit we are $45 million in second quarter of last year and that quarter includes all the divested businesses.
So on the net cash from operating activities line and on the free cash flow line as well you’ve got to normalize the free cash flow for CapEx.
But on both those lines we have essentially replaced Wheelabrator and Puerto Rico and Maritimes and really the only acquisition we've done is Deffenbaugh and we’ve had in the company for a quarter now.
So what we will do in terms of capital allocation is continue to opportunistically buyback shares thing here which we did in Q2 and again in Q3.
And look to use those proceeds to buy companies at attractive prices.
Got it.
Thanks for the color on that.
Switching gears over to the New York City contract I know it potentially is coming a little bit closer.
Can you guys maybe just talk to what your current contracts are? I know you guys have some transfer stations in the market and maybe talk about if you are participating in the new RFP and how you sit in that market.
Yeah.
Joe I will address the bid that’s out now the RFP that’s out.
We have provided a proposal for that volume.
We are on the shortlist along with Progressive.
It appears the city has begun discussions with Progressive and we are awaiting what the next steps are.
Progressive as you remember was incumbent for that volume.
And what happens to I guess will occur over the third and fourth quarter.
We still have the transfer stations employees receiving volume from the New York City and a couple of those big transfers Joe and nothing has changed with regard to that volume.
You next question comes from the line of Scott Levine of Imperial Capital.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
So just looking back at your initial guidance for this year I think assumed a $0.03.
$0.05 year-over-year hit from recycling.
And obviously your current guidance is assuming much more than that and I'm guessing a little bit bigger hit from FX.
So really just trying to get a sense you are guiding to the upper end of the range here.
Where is the upside versus your initial expectations coming from to more than offset the greater headwinds in recycling and FX? Yeah.
It is really coming sort of across the board right.
On the volume side although the actual percentage decline in the volumes isn't as good as we thought it would be frankly.
The flow through that we are getting from the new volumes is better than we thought it would be.
And so the point is that we are getting the right volumes.
We've consistently fit or beat our targets on our SG&amp;A numbers and on our operating costs.
And so really it's what I've said is that everything that we’ve got going on from an operational point of view seems to be working other than recycling.
And then obviously we've got the interest savings and share count going down from the share buyback and that’s benefiting the year.
And so when we look at our business we'd say everything is sort of clicking on all cylinders other than recycling.
And so what is it that we can do to fix recycling.
That's like we said that’s a long-term issue but we're making good progress on it.
Thanks.
And to be clear is there -- and I don't know if you mentioned this -- is there a tax rate assumption implicit in your guidance for this year now or has that changed at all or no? For the remainder of the year I would assume that that will be at 35% and that's what we’ve baked into the guidance.
Got it 35%.
Okay.
And then as a follow-up I think David you mentioned that the acquisitions you are contemplating here in the back half into 2016 are all solid waste.
Just wanted to confirm that's right and just to see if your thoughts had changed in any way regarding the energy waste business in particular and/or industrial waste since we've had the breakdown in commodity prices and the landscape has changed so dramatically? Yes.
What we are looking in the back half of the year is most certainly solid waste assets.
When you look at things like Energy Services we are going to be a player anytime one of those transactions becomes available.
We think long-term that a good space to be.
Clearly short-term it has some challenges and so you've got to look at it from a long-term valuation point of view recognizing that short-term valuation might not be what the sellers are trying to sell it on.
So we will play in every one of those bids but we're not going to -- look everybody wants to get paid based on when things were blowing and going and they say well this is just the short downturn.
We are not going to make that assumption.
When we look at it we are going to make an assumption on where we think the business is going to go over the next 5 to 10 years and we are going to evaluate accordingly.
So we haven't bought anything new in the oilfield service space because seller expectations on price haven’t come down as much as our view of value.
So I would expect that if you look at what we are going to buy over the next year it will be focused primarily on solid waste.
And what are sellers' expectations there in general? Is that market kind of more rational in your view than oil services or not? Yes.
I mean look we’ve always said that for us it’s pretty simple on the solid waste side.
If you assume that our long-term multiple is somewhere around eight times right.
It’s been higher than that.
It’s been lower than that.
But let’s call our sort of long-term view of our multiple at eight to nine times EBITDA.
Why would I pay someone more than eight times EBITDA when I can buy a business I know really well our own business at eight times EBITDA.
And so look we have lost a lot of deals right out of a shoot because sellers are expecting 10 to 12 times EBITDA and that’s just a number that doesn’t work with our model.
So could we buy more businesses? Absolutely but we’d be buying those businesses at very high multiples which obviously reduces the benefit to our shareholders.
And so we will continue to look to those deals that we can buy pre-synergies at eight times or less and then post-synergies hopefully at sort of as we’ve always said 5.5 to 6 times EBITDA.
If we can do that we are pretty much guaranteed that come hell or high water it’s going to be accretive to our shareholders.
Got it.
I think kind of the opportunity landscape here in terms of what sellers are looking for is pretty broad.
I mean there is some folks that are looking for and in some cases getting 12 to 15 times.
We are not in -- we are not talking to those folks but there are folks that are much more reasonable and obviously Deffenbaugh was one that we felt we got at a very attractive multiple.
And so we will continue to talk to companies like them.
Got it.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Al Kaschalk of Wedbush Securities.
Good morning Al.
Good morning.
David or Jim I just wanted to clarify on these deals that you’ve laid out 50 to 75 are these close? Are we at the goal line or are these things that still have a few hurdles to get over? I am just questioning what put this type of color there today.
Yes.
Well so I am going to define the goal line for you Al.
There is really two goal lines.
There is getting a deal signed.
And then the second goal line is getting a deal approved by the government.
And getting the deals signed is a pretty simple process.
For some reason the government has been taking a long time.
I mean look you saw our Kansas City deal and it took them eight months to approve a deal where we weren’t even in the market right.
And so it didn’t seem like it should take that long to approve it.
And it took a very long time for the government to approve it.
Now they’ve got a lot of big deals in the pipeline at Department of Justice and FDC.
And so I assume that’s what’s causing the delays.
And so what I would tell you is the first goal line is getting the deals signed up.
The second is regulatory approval.
We will be past that first goal line very short term.
As far as getting the deals signed up we’re pretty much there.
And so now the question is how long is it going to take us to get those deals approved and what constraints will we have around getting those deals approved? And that’s just such a wildcard that that’s why we wanted to let you all know we pretty much got this deal signed up for $50 million to $75 million of EBITDA but now we got to get it across the regulatory goal line the due diligence goal line.
There is as you know from signing to closing is complicated not only from a business and due diligence point of view from a government point of view.
So we are pretty much past the first goal line.
We are now marching towards that second goal line.
And that second goal line Al is that’s not an easy one to get over right.
We had a deal recently where we had agreed.
We crossed the first goal line.
We had agreed on purchase price months ago but the HSR process was daunting enough for these folks that they just decided for now we are going to back away.
So we both agreed to a -- what we both agreed was a reasonable purchase price but we just felt like that second goal line was not going to be achievable at least in the near term.
So we decided to part ways for now.
Okay.
So it sounds like this is multiple several acquisitions as opposed to a single transaction.
Yes.
Well the $50 million to $75 million that we’re talking about is comprised of one larger transaction that would generate the bulk of that and then obviously some smaller bolt-on.
Okay.
David I want to push back on the volume comments here.
The stock got absolutely crushed after Q1 and the number that you put up.
I don't know if it was 2.6 or 2.8 pardon me for not recalling that.
And you had articulated as a company getting towards that 50 basis points down to flat exiting I believe exiting '15.
So can you maybe just put a little better -- refine the sequential trends here? And in particular is this -- this was an overall volume comment or was it specific to solid waste about the volume trend? Yes.
It was specific to solid waste but let me put some sort of color around where we see the volumes going for the back half of the year.
So let’s start out with our industrial volumes.
Our industrial volumes were flat for the quarter and the only reason they were flat is because energy services obviously is down.
So when you look at the rest of the business industrial is actually positive.
So when you look at what we would look at before we got into the energy services business as sort of our core solid waste business industrial volumes are actually positive.
And we don’t see anything on the horizon that would start that momentum.
And so even with energy services down they are flat.
So we would expect those volumes to turn positive in the third or fourth quarter.
Looking at the commercial volumes for the quarter they were down 2.2%.
Now that’s a 60 basis point improvement from the first quarter.
We would sort of expect that rate of improvement to continue.
And so if you see that rate of continuum -- rate of improvement continue by the back half of the year you are sort of at that negative call it negative 1% on commercial volumes.
Residential volumes were down let’s call it down 3% 3.1% but we don’t really honestly even look at residential volumes because when we’re losing those volumes they are generally low profit very low margin volumes.
And so we are not that concerned about losing those volumes.
And then the land bill continues to be very strong.
So when I look at volumes for the back half of the year I look at volumes I am looking at the volumes that would make us money right.
And when you look at the volumes that make us money it’s industrial commercial landfill.
Industrial is going to be positive.
Landfill is going to continue to be positive.
And commercial is going to get better.
And so when I look at that when I look at those three components of the volume I’d say look the rest is all just noise.
As Jim talked about when you are getting when you are passing through transportation to your customer and you charge your customer $100 for transportation they pay you $100 and it costs you a $100 you make no margin on it.
I don’t care if I have that kind of revenue or not.
And so when I look at the revenues that actually make us money we see some really good trends and we expect those to continue in the back half of the year.
Al I would add one thing there which is recycle volumes.
And I will give you an example.
We had a plant that big plant that that’s essentially cut their volumes in half and by doing that they improved the quality of the material coming in.
They went from call it $0.5 million of month loss to breakeven by doing that.
So that’s similar to the resi volume.
And that yes we lost volume on the recycling line of business but not a bad thing for us on the income statement.
Right.
Okay.
My final question I want to ask about this whole capital allocation.
And question why I guess you lay out -- by the way is the share repurchase either open market transactions versus an accelerated share repurchase? Al we haven’t made a final call on that but we didn’t accelerate share repurchase in the first quarter.
And I wouldn’t be surprised if we did one in the second.
Okay.
I guess to that end David why quantify a certain -- one quarter out a share repurchase program target versus you are in it for the long haul here and as well as shareholders are to just not maybe specifically allocate capital to those markets so that you can give yourself some flexibility to either execute on M&amp;A maybe the stock gets hit maybe it doesn't? I think that’s a great point.
And where we are right now is we are still sort of the in the -- what I would call the final stages of replacing that Wheelabrator EBITDA.
I will tell you that as Jim point out we basically replaced it through operations that obviously takes a lot of pressure off of our need to do acquisitions.
But we want to see what we can get put together in the back half of the year from an acquisition point of view so that then we can make that long-term call on where we’re in share repurchases.
So I would expect that when we give guidance for 2016 we will be able to say okay here is what our expectations for acquisitions and here is what our expectations for long-term share repurchases and approach to the dividend.
And so I would say that in 2000 -- at beginning of 2016 after we sort of went through the market and determine what we can buy and what we can’t buy that we would be able to give you a more long-term view of share repurchases.
But to be fair David I think you said earlier this year that by the end of Q2 you would kind of know -- I guess you're asking for an extension from the outsiders looking in because I think you said earlier this year that by the end of Q2 you would have an idea what the M&amp;A would look like to execute here.
I am asking for an extension but I am telling that -- but I am saying that yes but like I said earlier you go into this process thinking well this is going to be simple.
There is a bunch of sellers out there that want to sell in and we are buyer and this should line up fairly easily.
And at the beginning of the year it absolutely lined up easily.
Jim talked about a transaction that if we had done the transaction Jim was talking about we’d pretty be have replaced the Wheelabrator EBITDA and we’d be moving on and telling you what our long-term share repurchases are.
It’s only been in the last month where that the risk of HSR was too much for the seller to take on and so we pushed that aside.
And so I am not looking for an extension I am just saying that it’s a fluid process it’s not a one-time event.
And it didn’t play out as fast as we would have liked it to play out.
And so the back half of the year is going to continue to be a little bit more fluid and then we can get more certainty going into 2016.
Yes.
But I guess you’re playing a little analyst earlier in terms of eight times nine times on what you’re trading at.
And if you are down now with the stock price where it's at the level it sure would seem to make a lot more sense to buy back stock than to chase M&amp;A.
But I certainly understand the need to grow back the EBITDA level.
But I think in looking at what the realization is on asset valuations out there it looks pretty attractive at eight times here.
Yes absolutely.
Well look you’re talking to the person that put $2 million of his own dollars into the stock so I certainly thought it was attractive.
Great.
Thank you David.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Tyler Brown of Raymond James.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Tyler.
Jim so if we could just go back quickly to free cash flow and you gave some really good color but I do need a little clarification.
So if you assume that the cash tax normalizes I think you noted kind of run rate base of 1.35 but does that incorporate this $50 million to $75 million of EBITDA that you have kind of lined up? It does not.
So that is just growth on top of it.
Okay.
So what I’m coming up with at 1.35 is really normalizing.
And by the way what we'll do is I didn’t want to give 2016 guidance so I kind of gave you a starting point there 1.35 to 1.40.
Exactly.
Okay.
So then you would add on kind of acquisitions maybe some rollover of Deffenbaugh and kind of whatever your growth is in the core business plus or minus the other stuff? That we can provide.
Okay.
Perfect.
That’s very helpful.
In models.
Okay.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
And then can you just -- can you guys kind of work through or kind of remind us just what percent of the book is linked to CPI? I am just curious how the 0% all-in prints today are going to impact the '16 pricing? I mean is that more of a back-half issue? And I mean should we expect the core pricing will take a step down in ' just mathematically from CPI? Well to answer first question Tyler it’s about 40% of our businesses is driven by CPI.
I wouldn’t say it’s a back half issue because I think it's pretty evenly spread.
It’s kind of a midyear and then end of the year adjustment so it's pretty evenly spread for us.
And what we've always said about CPI is to the extent that it hurts us will make it up elsewhere with open market.
And when we talk about CPI CPI is not -- there is not one CPI there is a lot of different CPIs in different contracts.
What we've been trying to move toward is more of a industry-specific CPI what we call the refuse rate index.
So that as our costs go up -- when CPI is 1% and you’re given people 3% pay raises CPI just doesn’t cover your costs.
And so what we've been trying to do in our contracts is look at different types of indexes that more reflect the true cost in our business and try to get those true costs.
And so I think as an industry we could probably do a better job of making sure that we don't get linked to some arbitrary type of CPI that we get linked to something specific to our industry.
And so when we talk about 40% of our business a lot of that business or some of that business is tied to what we call this refuse rate index and we hope to move that percentage up.
David we've had some success in doing that in the first half of this year in some renewals where we moved to more of a refuse index rather than just CPI so there is some positive trends occurring.
So I mean is it a big portion of that 40% or is it just kind of a small slice? Yes.
It is probably in the 10% 15% of that 40% and that maybe it's 20%.
I don’t have the numbers in front of me Tyler in that range.
And typically Tyler where we’ve seen more success in this is in the franchise markets in California.
And we’ve had a couple of big franchise agreements that we moved to refuse rate indexes.
Okay.
Great.
Tyler I was talking about at lower end what we’ve done in the first half.
Oakland contract is an example of when we did last year that’s going into effect this year that’s on that same basis.
Okay.
Great.
And then just lastly real quick you guys mentioned that I think overall landfill was up 3.2% and MSW landfill was up 7.2%.
I think I heard that correct.
I am curious is that a third-party number? Yes.
Okay.
Any color on why landfill MSW has been so strong? It’s been strong now for two and a half years.
And it’s probably mostly tied to when we bought the Oakleaf business and we retained that broker model and we went out to the folks that brokered the collection business for us and said look we want you to keep that collection business you’re making good money on it we want you to keep it.
But in return we want you to bring those volumes door and landfill.
And that was very successful and that's when we saw the rates go up.
And then look over the last couple of years I think we've also seen as an industry we’ve seen MSW growth.
So I think the specific actions that we took with respect to our brokers and then the general economy have both been good drivers of MSW.
The encouraging part about not only the volume piece there but really the price piece if you look at unit rates and our landfills I was looking at last five years I mean we’ve really increased unit rates at our landfills by way stream whether it’s MSW or C&amp;D or special waste.
So I was kind of thinking along the same line as you.
Does this volume mean that we’re seeing a deterioration in price as I think about it by in unit rates? And it’s not.
I mean since 2011 nice increases and it’s every year nice increases for MSW special waste C&amp;D.
Okay.
Yes.
Very good color because that's what I was going to ask.
It sounds like -- is the landfill pricing a key initiative as you look forward? Absolutely absolutely.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Hoffman of Stifel.
Hi David Jim and Jim.
Thanks for taking my questions.
A little bit on the volume.
If you look at commercial same-store kept the customer have the customer that volume is up isn't it in the container? Yeah.
That is correct.
Yeah.
Right.
So… So… … when you have a 72 from third-party there is some number that’s got to be in that direction in your commercial market same-store? Yeah.
That’s correct.
Right.
Right.
So you are benefiting from what the industry is benefiting is we’ve had -- you and I interfacing with the economy outside of work outside of home is driving more volume in the container? Yeah.
Okay.
And again look we don’t want to declare that good times are here.
But you all have heard me say over the last couple of years that that we have fits and starts in the various statistics.
And we still haven't seen a very clear-cut trend until last quarter and that trend continued into this quarter.
So when you look at -- this really is the first quarter where all of the indicators are positive.
And again that doesn’t mean we’re going to go from negative 2 to positive 5 but we don't have to right in order to drive to make our numbers in the back half of the year.
We just want to see continuous improvement.
So wage are up service increases over decreases are up the churn rates down.
On the industrial side we’ve had really strong new business pricing.
So this is really the first quarter where I would say all the indicators are positive.
Now look we all know that can change on a dime.
But right now I'm more optimistic about volumes than I've been over the last five years.
Okay.
Michael I want to really reemphasize something here that and that is that because this industry you’ve been around a long time.
The industry has a history of either being one or the other you’re either priced or your volume and there's nothing in the middle.
And so while we’re seeing some nice momentum here on the price side and David went through in the detail a few minutes ago.
We are not conceding our strong approach on pricing.
I mean and that's why we wanted to make sure we gave that explanation of yield versus core price that Jim and I walk through because we are as strong as we have ever been on pricing.
We’re just starting to see maybe see economy but I was starting to see that that are volumes are looking promising.
It’s early in the third quarter but July looks promising as well.
Okay.
So you have set let me -- set me up for a perfect follow-on Jim.
I think of waste is having sort of put their foot down on the accelerator on price right to the floorboard for the last four or five years? And you took a volume consequence for that knowingly.
Where are you or are you even contemplating feathering that where instead of being 100 miles an hour you are going 80 but now you're not pushing away what could be deemed good business in particularly commercial that -- now that this volume trends coming too? Yeah.
Look just the simple math you all have heard us say it a million times that you need to get 3% volume in order make up the 1% price I mean that just simple math.
And you can't get 3% volume by giving away 1% price.
So the waiting of where you want to focus will always be on price.
What we want to do and by the way if we as the largest player in the industry switch and go after volume what you think the industry is going to do.
I mean look we’re the largest player and we recognize the position that we’re in.
So what we want to do is make sure that we get our fair share of the growth and that we grow the right volumes in the right places.
And so I don't think when you talk to industry participants I don’t think you'll ever hear anyone say well Waste Management is doing a volume graph in market X or market Y.
Do we have individual contracts that we've done where we've gone after volume but I wasn't particularly happy with it on our national account side or somewhere like that yeah we’ve done that in the past.
But it is that certainly not a pattern that you will see out of Waste Management.
And so we're always going to favor price over volume but in a growing market we are to get our fair share of the volume too because we can get our fair share of the volume and that won't have an effect on the overall industry pricing dynamic.
And so look it's pretty simple economics in a better economy.
We think we can get both price and volume.
Okay.
Michael I add to that that we’ve also because of our price leadership strategy have begun efforts to improve our service.
We realize that there are some improvements that’s need to be made to make sure we're providing that service that’s worthy of our priced leadership position.
We're doing a better job of that.
You see it in the churn rate we see it in metrics.
We're not done with it but we have progressed in that regard.
Jim I was just kind of say that.
Michael when you talk about going from 100 miles an hour to 80 miles an hour on pricing.
Look we’ve had a lot of discussion recently at to Jim's point about differentiated strategy.
I mean you can still go 100 miles an hour on pricing if you're differentiated.
I mean if your strategy is differentiation with things like the industrial business where we provide expertise and that others don't have and size of our balance sheet things like that or whether it's bringing technology to bear or to Jim's point improving customer service all of those enable you to keep your foot on the pricing accelerator.
Okay.
So but to Jim T's comment then the churn rate must be coming down if the service relationship is getting better? It was -- it’s not where we wanted to be but 10.3 is a whole lot better than 12.2 than it was -- that Q2 of ‘14.
So absolutely we see improvement and we expect more.
Okay.
And then ….
And Michael just to expand on that so should be loss if we improve the churn rate at 190 basis point but we didn't materially increase the rollbacks right I mean in the past what we’ve seen is that we have the one of the ways we improve the churn rate is our rollback percentage grows from 25% to 60%.
This quarter we reduce the churn rate by 190 basis points with virtually nonexistent change in our rollback percentage.
Okay.
So we have known each other too long because you just anticipated my next question.
So that was you’re retaining more price too then is that… You got that.
Okay.
All right.
So now I am changing gears a second.
Some housekeeping questions Jim Fish.
Starting share count for 3Q should be about $454 million or $454 million is that the right way to think about it? I think more like $457 million I think is the number.
Okay.
What's the $451.8 million then that it’s in the press release plus the comp numbers like $2.8 million? I can follow-up on that but I just want to make sure I have the starting place.
And then on tax rate just following up on the question that was asked earlier that's 3Q and 4Q should have a 35% not that the full year will be 35%? Correct.
Okay.
And working capital you didn't talk about that.
Where are we on DSOs and payables for your plan there? I’m sorry as of DPOs? Yes.
DSO DPO.
Yeah.
We’ve made some nice progress there over the last two and a half years.
We made nice progress sequentially.
Year-over-year and sequentially from Q1 we've improved DPO by about a little bit less than three days DSO by over less than one day.
When I looked at it over kind of the time period that we've really started working on this over maybe two and a half year period we’ve really improved the combination of the two by nine days.
It's not totally out of the realm of hospitality that we couldn’t crossover at some point down the road.
We are still away from that.
Some of our areas have started to crossover where the DPO is higher than their DSO.
But yeah I'm pleased with the progress but won’t be completely pleased until we crossover like most companies are.
All right.
So just to put numbers on that you are still in the mid-40s on DSOs and high 20s on DPOs days? We are in the low 40s on DSO and we’ve crossed over to 30 now.
We are about 30 on the DPO.
Okay.
Okay.
And then I didn't -- you said this but I was writing so many numbers I missed it.
What was the special waste trend at the landfill in the second quarter? Yeah the special waste was 2.4% as I recall.
Let me just look yeah the volume was 2.4% for special waste.
And when we look at it we sort of look at special waste C&amp;D and revenue generating cover.
When you look at special waste it was 2.4% of revenue-generating cover which is essentially special waste was about 10%.
Well.
And I guess where I was going it was wet in a lot of places in the country and special waste is predominantly dirt so there is a good chance that we could see a special waste number that’s much bigger in 3Q because you just couldn't get heavy equipment in to move the dirt around? Yeah.
We actually have that discussion with our folks out in the markets.
And we obviously have some left down here in the Texas area.
You had it up in the upper Midwest.
I think what our folks would say is the pipeline looks pretty strong.
We don't expect special waste to slowdown in the back half of the year.
So I think they are pretty optimistic about it.
Okay.
And then on the deal commentary just to be clear I get the ones you have got targeted are solid waste but that doesn't preclude you.
You made a comment earlier David that I just want to make sure I understand.
You would buy a hazardous waste business or an energy waste business under the right circumstances.
That's just not what you are targeting at the moment.
Yes no.
Absolutely we would.
And we consider those sort of core solid waste types businesses.
Those are areas where we can apply our expertise very easily.
What we aren’t going to do is what I led five years ago which is get into some other types of businesses that where we can take our solid waste expertise and apply them very easily.
Okay.
Saving the best for last Jim Fish on free cash flow.
If I take your $1.5 billion and I look at it on what's the recurring operating cash generation I got to pull out $300 million right? $100 million for asset sales round numbers $200 million for cash tax so I start at $1.2 billion and then you are suggesting you will be $1.35 billion potentially.
You're not giving guidance.
But none of that has any deals in it so that's a pretty healthy $150 million swing.
How much of that is working capital versus the optimization programs cost saves organic? Part of it Michael is you pull out $100 million in acquisitions I mean in dispositions.
But we do dispositions every year.
We sort of always assume that we’re going to call it $50 million to $100 million of asset dispositions.
And so that’s -- I'm not sure that you can pull out that $400 million.
And help me again.
How did you get to the $1.2 billion I know you pulled out the cash tax.
What else did you pull? Well.
You have asset sales so I can't predict that number right because I can drive a truck between $50 million and $100 million.
So if I say all right what is the business generating in its own cash -- $1.5 billion less $100 million for asset sales $200 million for cash taxes puts it at $1.2 billion? $1.2 billion goes to $1.35 billion that's $150 million year-over-year improvement and there is no deals in that.
I'm just trying to understand.
I’m trying to also kind of normalize CapEx.
I don’t know what my CapEx is going to be next year but 2014 CapEx was 11.50.
2015 CapEx is going to be 1.3.
So by the way on a smaller business at this point I mean.
We don't have Wheelabrator.
We don’t have Puerto Rico.
We don’t have Maritimes.
So I'm adding back a bit there in CapEx too.
But it’s hard to say when our -- we know we are going to have some CapEx next year for Oakland.
We had some this year for Oakland.
So it’s not going to $11.50 again but it may not be $13 either.
Hey Michael you and Jim were talking the same number the only differences is the divestiture piece basically.
And I think that’s the whole point Michael is that the divestitures and the CapEx that can move around a little bit.
So when you look at the sort of a long-term history of what we’ve done both on CapEx and on divestitures you sort of get to that 1.35 number.
Okay yes.
What I was really trying to understand was what made up the $150 million and so some of it is CapEx.
How much then is organic versus the optimization programs you have initiated over the last couple years? How would you… We’ll get into that.
I don’t want to try to parse it to the penny because frankly we haven't done that.
We’ll certainly do that next year when we give 2016 guidance.
So that’s that's probably a better time to try to parse it down to the penny.
Okay.
We still did get asked the starting point though so we did have variance.
Right so we are both agreeing on one two so that -- good enough.
All right thanks.
Certainly.
And Michael your question about share counts I mean the difference between your 451 or 452 and my 457 is just the effect of using weighted average common shares outstanding and that has to do with midyear share repurchase.
Got it.
Okay.
All right perfect.
Thanks.
Thanks Michael.
Your next question comes from the line of Barbara Noverini of Morningstar.
Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
You talked a little bit about differentiation earlier in order to push price.
And I thought we would focus on the residential business just a little bit.
My sense is that Waste Management used to differentiate itself with recycling services in a bundled contract.
But now that you are heavily scrutinizing recycling how else do you differentiate in residential outside of recycling? Is winning or renewing municipal contracts in this competitive environment increasingly dependent on the bundled services you are able to provide municipalities? Yeah.
So I don't think the bundling of recycling with residential slows down.
In fact frankly it’s more of an opportunity to bundle it because given the asset mix that we have we’re one of the few companies that actually make money on recycling.
So probably give us a little bit of a competitive advantage as far as bundling recycling with that -- with residential services.
But when we look at the residential line of business we start out with let's keep the contracts that we have at current rates or higher rate.
And keeping the contract that you have is all about service right.
Most municipalities if they had your service for a long time and they’re happy with it but citizens aren’t looking for a change just to save a little bit of money.
And so the first part of our residential strategies keep the contracts that we have at the same or higher rates.
And we’ve got a very high success rate of doing that.
And then the second piece is finds out where we can be competitive -- competitively advantaged.
So if it is in a market where we have recycling capability no one else does can we bundle it with recycling capability? If it’s in our market where we have the different types of disposal assets and different green initiatives that we can bring to the table and that’s what the customer wants.
That’s how we differentiate ourselves.
And so for us it is a two part strategy.
It’s make sure you keep your current contract and that’s by providing spectacular service.
And then let’s find out where we can win bids that aren’t based solely on price because if they are based solely on price we aren’t going to win.
And so let's find those markets where service recycling green initiatives make a difference and let’s go in and win those bid.
Thanks for that.
I mean we almost look at it by line of business because what differentiates you in the industrial line of business is different than what differentiates you in the residential line of business.
So as we've -- in fact we’re aware of the process of going through a strategy preparation to present to the board here in August and we’re focusing specifically on differentiation in any one case.
And it is by line of business.
So maybe we bring different technology to the table maybe -- certainly operating efficiency because so much of the residential business is driven by price.
And then you got to be as efficient from operating standpoint as you can in residential.
Great.
Got it.
Thanks for that.
Absolutely.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
David Steiner for closing remarks.
Thank you.
Thank you all for joining us.
We’ve had a strong start to the year.
We expect to finish the year strong.
And we’ll see you next quarter.
Thanks again.
Thank you for participating in today's Waste Management's conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at 1:30 PM Eastern Standard Time today through 11:59 PM Eastern Standard Time on Aug 6 2015.
The conference ID number for the replay is 64809894.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 64809894.
The number to dial in for the replay is (855) 859-2056.
This concludes today's Waste Management's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Janisha and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Ed Egl Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Mr.
Egl you may begin.
Thank you Janisha.
Good morning everyone and thank you very joining for our third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are David Steiner President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Fish Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Trevathan Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before we get started please note that we have filed a Form 8-K this morning that includes the earnings press release and is available on our website at www.wm.com.
The Form 8-K the press release and the schedules to the press release include important information.
During the call you will hear forward-looking statements which are based on current expectations projections or opinions about future periods.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of these risks and uncertainties are discussed in today's press release and our filings with the SEC including our most recent Form 10-K.
David and Jim will discuss our results in the areas of yield and volume which unless otherwise stated are more specifically references to internal revenue growth or IRG from yield or volume.
During the call David and Jim will discuss our earnings per diluted share which they may refer to as EPS or earnings per share and David and Jim will also address operating EBITDA and operating EBITDA margin as defined in the earnings press release.
Any comparison unless otherwise stated will be with the third quarter of 2014.
The third quarter of 2014 results have been adjusted to enhance comparability by excluding certain items that management believes do not reflect our fundamental business performance or results of operations and by excluding amounts attributed to businesses and assets divested in 2014.
These adjusted measures in addition to free cash flow are non-GAAP measures.
Please refer to the earnings press release footnote and schedules which can be found on the company's website at www.wm.com for reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP measures and additional information about the use of non-GAAP measures.
This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning approximately 1:00 PM Eastern Time today until 5:00 PM Eastern Time on November 10.
To hear a replay of the call over the Internet access the Waste Management website at www.wm.com.
To hear a telephonic replay of the call dial 855-859-2056 and enter reservation code 32546520.
Time-sensitive information provided during today's call which is occurring on October 27 2015 may no longer be accurate at the time of a replay.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of Waste Management is prohibited.
Now I'll turn the call over to Waste Management's President and CEO David Steiner.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Ed and good morning from Houston.
Our strong third quarter results continued what we saw through the first six months of the year: disciplined pricing and cost control programs driving improvement in our business.
In the third quarter we earned $0.74 per share an increase of more than 10% than the third quarter of 2014.
Each of our net income operating income and margin operating EBITDA and margin and earnings per diluted share improved when compared to the third quarter of 2014.
Through the first nine months of the year our operations have generated almost $2 billion in cash provided from operating activities which is a 16.5% increase from the prior year when you exclude divested businesses.
Our strong performance puts us on track to exceed our full-year goals and we're excited about the positive momentum building into the fourth quarter and heading into 2016.
Again in the third quarter our pricing programs continued to be a big part of our earnings growth and margin expansion.
For the third quarter our collection and disposal core price was 4% which is consistent with the third quarter of 2014 and yield was 1.8%.
Core price in the industrial line was 8.4%; in the commercial line it was 5.7%; in our residential line it was 2.2%; and in our landfill line it was 2.3%.
Year-to-date through September core price was 4.2% which exceeds our 2015 core price target of 3.8%.
As we saw in the first half of the year core price continues to drive margin expansion as our traditional solid waste business operating EBITDA and operating EBITDA margin increased when compared to the third quarter of 2014.
Turning to volumes when we look at our business we track traditional solid waste volumes which exclude recycling and non-solid waste revenues.
Our traditional solid waste volumes were basically flat declining only 0.1% in the third quarter of 2015 versus the decline of 1.9% in the third quarter of 2014 a 180 basis point year-over-year improvement and a 50 basis point sequential improvement from the 0.6% decline in the second quarter of 2015.
Overall volume which includes recycling and those non-solid waste volumes declined 1.4% in the third quarter.
In our industrial line of business the positive momentum that we saw in the second quarter continued into the third quarter.
Strong new business pricing outpaced the price of lost business.
So we were able to get both a strong price and positive volumes in the quarter as industrial volume was a positive 0.4% in the third quarter of 2015 improving 290 basis points from negative 2.5% in the third quarter of 2014.
We also saw the rate of decline in our commercial line of business improve again as the rate of loss in commercial volumes improved 360 basis points compared to the third quarter of 2014 and 90 basis points sequentially from a negative 4.9% in the third quarter of 2014 to a negative 1.3% in the third quarter of 2015.
This is the best commercial volume that we've seen since 2006.
Our service increases continued to exceed decreases and new business in our commercial and industrial lines combined exceeded lost business for the second consecutive quarter.
These are all positive signs that make us optimistic that volume should continue to strengthen into 2016.
Turning to recycling we continue to work together with our customers vendors and industry groups to improve the long-term outlook for recycling through educating the public on what and how to recycle to bring down contamination levels.
We have also made progress on renegotiating contractual terms with our customers including exiting some unprofitable contracts.
Ultimately we want to provide recycling solutions that both meet our customers' needs and generate an appropriate return for us.
Recycling is the right option for the environment and we are working to make it the right business decision for our shareholders as well.
Moving to current results from our recycling operations in the third quarter earnings per share from the recycling operations were flat compared to the third quarter of 2014 despite a 15% drop in average commodity prices and a 6.4% decline in volumes which is largely associated with contractual losses as we shed unprofitable business.
Our recycling employees performed incredibly in reducing operating costs and improving the business.
In the third quarter we saw a 7% improvement in operating cost per ton compared to 2014.
So we're moving in the right direction and our results in 2015 will exceed the expectations we laid out earlier in the year.
But there is still a long way to go to get the appropriate returns on our existing assets.
With respect to potential acquisitions as we mentioned on our second quarter conference call we believe that we can execute agreements to add an additional $50 million to $75 million of operating EBITDA in 2016.
Recently we closed on two acquisitions that we expect to generate approximately $18 million in operating EBITDA in 2016.
Our pipeline still looks strong and we're in the advanced stages of some transactions.
Consequently we still believe that we can close transactions that will generate $50 million to $70 million of additional 2016 operating EBITDA.
So we expect to see strong operating EBITDA growth from our core business and from acquisitions in 2016.
But I will remind you that the operating EBITDA from acquisitions won't translate to earnings per share in 2016 because we'll have corresponding intangible amortization.
However the transactions will generate cash flow which is the most important metric in our business and we expect that our cash flow in 2016 will be strong.
In conclusion we've seen three consecutive quarters of strong results and we're confident that strength will continue as we conclude the year and look forward to 2016.
This performance is a tribute to our employees executing our pricing disciplined growth and cost control strategies.
We're confident that our employees' focus on our core business will allow us to meet the analysts' fourth quarter consensus of $0.67 of adjusted earnings per diluted share which would allow us to exceed the upper end of our 2015 adjusted earnings per diluted share guidance of $2.55.
We also expect to exceed the upper end of our full-year free cash flow guidance of $1.5 billion in which case we may decide to prepay some items to help offset tax and other cash-flow headwinds in 2016.
I'll now turn the call over to Jim to discuss our third quarter results in more detail.
Thanks David.
In the third quarter of 2015 SG&amp;A costs continue to a bright spot in our results even as we face tougher comparisons to the prior year.
Overall SG&amp;A costs improved $8 million compared to the third quarter of 2014.
As a percent of revenue SG&amp;A costs were 9.8% an improvement of 10 basis points compared to the third quarter of 2014.
With the strong results from the first nine months of 2015 we expect to achieve our full-year goal of reducing SG&amp;A costs by $60 million.
Turning to cash flow for the third quarter.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $657 million compared to $627 million in the third quarter of 2014 after adjusting for $45 million from the divested operations.
Other impacts on our cash provided by operating activities were $40 million paid to complete our withdrawal from the Central States Pension Plan and a $60 million reduction in cash taxes paid.
During the third quarter we continued to improve our working capital position as we reduced days sales outstanding by 1.4 days and increased days payables outstanding by 3.9 days.
We are pleased with these results as our team has done a terrific job of making these improvements and we expect to see continued improvement into 2016.
Free cash flow was $358 million in the third quarter of 2015 an increase of $20 million when excluding free cash flow from divested operations in 2014.
Our capital expenditures for the quarter were $335 million $28 million more than the third quarter of 2014.
As David mentioned we've generated almost $2 billion of cash provided by operating activities through the first nine months of 2015.
In addition we've generated over $1.2 billion of free cash flow.
Given that we expect the free cash flow in 2015 will exceed the upper end of our guidance range of $1.5 billion.
David mentioned that we would pre-pay some expenses in the event that we exceed our free cash flow guidance.
An example might be prepaying cash taxes.
We currently anticipate that our 2016 cash taxes will increase by $300 million to $400 million.
If we have excess free cash flow we may elect to prepay some of the cash tax increase at year-end to lessen the impact of this increase.
Third quarter revenues were $3.36 billion.
We saw a $53 million increase in revenues from acquisitions and a $48 million increase in our traditional solid waste business.
We also saw an overall revenue decline of $186 million from divestures a $49 million decline from lower recycling revenues $47 million in lower fuel surcharge revenues and $41 million in foreign currency fluctuations.
Looking at internal revenue growth in the third quarter.
Our collection and disposal core price was 4% with total volumes declining 1.4%.
This led to total company income from operations growing $24 million operating income margin expanding 110 basis points operating EBITDA growing $29 million and operating EBITDA margin growing 140 basis points in each case compared to third quarter 2014 results.
Our collection lines of business continue to see the benefit of core price and disciplined growth as operating EBITDA and operating EBITDA margins grew.
In the landfill line of business we saw the benefits of both positive volume and positive core price in the third quarter.
We saw same-store average MSW rates increase year-over-year for the 10th consecutive quarter up 3.6% from Q3 2014.
MSW volumes grew 5.9% C&amp;D volume grew 4.9% and special waste volumes were a positive 2.4%.
Total landfill volumes increased 4%.
Our special waste pipeline looks strong and we expect to see landfill volumes remain strong through 2016.
Moving to operating expenses.
As a percent of revenue operating costs improved 140 basis points to 62.4%.
Lower diesel costs and lower recycling commodity rebates to our customers contributed $73 million to the improvements.
We also had reduced expenses from foreign currency fluctuations.
Subcontractor costs improved $17 million and labor and related benefits improved $12 million when compared to the third quarter of 2014 as we continue to see improvement from our service delivery optimization program.
These savings were partially offset by increased disposal cost related to our improved volumes and slightly higher maintenance cost.
Overall operating cost improved $91 million in the third quarter.
Finally looking at our other financial metrics.
At the end of the third quarter our debt-to-total-capital ratio was 63.3% and our weighted average cost of debt was 4.4%.
The floating rate portion of our total debt portfolio was 8% at the end of the quarter.
In the third quarter we repurchased 5.9 million of our outstanding shares for $300 million and paid $172 million of dividends.
This $472 million reflects our confidence in the cash generation of our business and our commitment to return cash to our shareholders.
Our income tax rate in the third quarter was 32.3% which compares to 30.6% for the third quarter of 2014.
In tribute to the late and great Hall of Famer Yogi Berra our third quarter results were déjà vu all over again.
We've seen three consecutive quarters of year-over-year improvements and we expect that to continue into the fourth quarter.
All of our employees have worked hard to deliver these solid results and for that I want to thank them.
We are very confident that they will continue to deliver strong earnings and cash flow to complete a successful 2015 and set us up for continued improvement throughout 2016.
And with that Janisha let's open the line up for questions.
Your first question comes from the line of Scott Levine of Imperial Capital.
Yeah.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Scott.
So just looking for maybe a little bit of an update on the pricing environment.
Core pricing looked like it was pretty strong in the quarter but it sounds like a lot of the gross margin expansion you're getting is from lower fuel and commodity costs but are you still seeing a pretty good pricing environment out there? How are you progressing with regard to your price case you still getting good margin expansion associated with your internal pricing activities? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I'd say sort of as a follow-on to last quarter I would say that the overall pricing environment is as solid as I've seen it since I've been at Waste Management.
We see real good progress across all lines of business except for our residential line.
And as you all know the residential line is traditionally the most competitive line.
I would say even in the residential line though we're seeing very disciplined pricing based on return on invested capital type of metrics from the large national players.
It's always sort of those small local and regional players that seem to sometimes forget that that if you offer a lower price and you invest a lot of capital in those residential contracts that over the term of those contracts you don't make as much money as you'd think.
But even in the residential line what we're seeing is sort of those large national companies are bidding based on return on capital not on chasing low-priced volume.
So I'd say overall I'm extremely encouraged by the pricing environment.
We expect it to hold into 2016.
Got it.
And maybe shifting to tax for a bit here.
So I don't know if Jim had given a tax rate assumption for the fourth quarter did you give one? I did and our tax rate in the fourth quarter is going to be similar to the third quarter.
Okay.
So that was just about 32% and then with 2016 you mentioned $300 million to $400 million pick-up in cash tax but for some of this pre-payment – maybe a little bit more elaboration there and if we do get renewal of bonus depreciation might you see a significant benefit associated with that and one that you may be able to take an early shot at quantifying? Yeah.
If we do get bonus depreciation and thanks to our slow moving congress it seems like that always happens at the very end of the year but it's probably going to be in the neighborhood of $70 million Scott for bonus depreciation.
And then when you think about that $300 million to $400 million really that's – of course that's the prepayment from last year of 2014 it's the $150 million or so from the early extinguishment of debts transaction earlier in the year.
And then combining all those benefits with earnings growth in 2016 our cash tax headwind will be somewhere in that $300 million to $400 million which is why David and I both mentioned the fact that we probably will prepay certainly the – probably half of that's benefit from the early extinguishment of debt will get push forward in the 2016 and then depending on how we do with respect to free cash flow it's possible that we will prepay additional taxes at the end of the quarter.
Got it.
So said in other way maybe expect maybe at least half of that increase in 2016 to be pulled into 4Q based on what you expect right now? I think that sounds about right.
Got it.
One last one on the M&amp;A side so you're essentially I guess affirming the EBITDA the target that you expected to acquire for next year.
Should we assume those are kind of your traditional solid waste acquisitions or has your view changed at all with regard to call it the non-traditional waste business whether it's industrial energy or otherwise? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
No that would be a core solid waste.
We would consider hazardous waste and energy services both to be core businesses.
And if we found some transactions in those areas we'd look at them.
Obviously we would look at them based on today's environment not on tomorrow's environment or yesterday's environment.
But when we talk about that $50 million to $70 million of additional on top of the $18 million that we've already closed we would – yeah we'd look at those more as traditional solid – what you'd look at as traditional solid waste businesses.
Got it.
Thanks.
Nice quarter.
Sure.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Corey Greendale of First Analysis.
Hey good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning Corey.
First I wanted to follow-on Scott's question about price.
It sounds like the environment is favorable overall.
But I guess first of all can you just verify I had from my notes that about 40% of your revenue base is tied directly to CPI do I have that right? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's about right yeah.
So could you just address that portion specifically given where CPI is at? Should we expect lower price in those markets in 2016 and what does that imply for overall price growth in 2016 relative to 2015? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
When we look at our CPI business we always look at it and say look there is nothing we can do about CPI because it's a government-posted staff that we cannot control.
So sometimes we're going to get hurt sometimes we're going to get helped by it.
It seems over the last few years all's we've done is get hurt by it.
So in 2016 we don't expect to have a benefit from CPI in fact we'd expect to have a little bit of a detriment to pricing from CPI in 2016.
But like we've always said we can't control that.
What we can control is the core price on the rest of our business.
And so if we aren't going to – my guess is that we will have sort of a consistent core price target next year that we've had both in 2014 and 2015 and if we're not going to get it from CPI we'll make up for it by getting core price on our other lines of business.
Got it.
And just to clarify when you say you can't control CPI obviously that's true but one of your large competitors has talked about trying to shift customers to more of a sewer water waste index instead of CPI.
Is that something you've thought about or are doing at all? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Oh absolutely.
We've actually done that.
We've tried to use that index we've also used what we've called sort of our solid waste index.
And so every time that we talk to the customers – look this goes back 10 to 12 years ago when we first instituted a fuel surcharge because we saw fuel prices fluctuating.
What has to happen is that everyone in the industry needs to say look this just doesn't make sense for us unless we look at these contracts with this type of adjustment in it.
And so going back 10 years ago when we first put in the fuel surcharge on our residential contracts everyone said that's never going to happen because the municipalities won't accept it.
And as the industry said we're just not going to bid unless we have a fuel surcharge customers started to accept it.
It's the same thing with CPI.
Look every single company has been hurt by CPI in the last five years.
And I think it's incumbent upon the largest companies to say look we're just not going to bid these under the traditional CPI or even worse 75%-of-CPI type of contracts.
And if the industry is able to do that then you'll see municipalities change but they are not going to change when only one player is out there doing it.
So we've been doing that particularly in California for the last number of years and will continue to do that throughout the country.
I understand.
And David can you just talk a little bit about how you are thinking about new business kind of your selling effort in an improving economic environment? Whether – what's the state of your sales force are you growing the sales force are you changing how they're incentivized or anything like that to try to win new business? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I'm not sure I'd say that we're growing our sales force I'd say what we're doing is we're sort of reallocating our sales force.
From our perspective what we've tried to do is put our sales force in those areas where it's growing.
So when we look at a market area that's not growing we might reduce the sales force whereas when we look at market area that is growing might add to sales force.
And so there won't be a drastic addition to our sales force.
There will certainly be a reallocation of our efforts in those lines of business that are growing and in those geographies that are growing.
Okay.
And then one more from me.
It sounds like you're making good progress on reducing your recycling processing costs.
Can you just give us a couple of sensitives on what that constitutes whether it's a labor question or you're putting in different equipment just what you're doing there? And then secondly the reduction that you've seen so far how far does that take you towards your goal? I think the goal is reducing average cost per ton by $10 or something like that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I would say we're probably 70% two-thirds 70% of the way there on our goals.
There's still plenty of room for improvement.
And those cost improvements have come from sort of all of the above.
First and foremost you have the operational improvements.
But secondly you have shutting down some of our more high-cost operations.
And so we've basically shut down those operations that we would expect to shut down.
There are some contracts that we need to get out of that are high-processing contracts.
And then finally we need to reduce those contamination levels.
That's – frankly that's what drove the highest increase in our operating costs.
And so working with our customers we need to make sure that when we have a contamination rate goal in each – in our contracts which we have in virtually all of our contracts we need to make sure that our customers are meeting those goals.
And so we'll go in and do the audits to make sure that that we're dropping those contamination rates.
And so look our recycling folks have really done a spectacular job of approaching the operating costs from every angle.
I think there's still some room for improvement in 2016 but they've done a heck of a job so far.
There's still a day where some of those contracts will fall off during 2016.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Right.
That will provide some structural improvement as well for the recycling business.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Corey I think that's a – this is the first time that we have talked about internally at least 2016 not being a big down year versus the prior year in recycling.
By the way it's not because of any help we're getting on the commodity line it's just that the efforts of our team to really permanently change the way the business operates on the cost side are starting to really bear some fruit.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Absolutely.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Box of KeyBanc Capital Market.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Good morning Joe.
Inc.</span></strong> So I just wanted to dig into the moderating decline in solid waste volumes.
How would you explain the 180 basis point of improvement year-over-year? Is that more a function of waste fundamentals improving? Is it better sales execution? Or is it may be just a function of your pricing is up but it's not up quite as much? Just any color on that would be helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I would say that primarily it's related to improving fundamentals of the industry.
We really aren't using price to go out and chase volumes.
So you've got improving fundamentals across some lines like the industrial line where – frankly in the industrial line we probably could have grown it more in the last couple of quarters but we're constrained by the number of containers and drivers and trucks that we have on the road.
And so primarily it's improving industry fundamentals but we really have seen a nice improvement in productivity from our sales force.
When I talked about it earlier we're not adding a lot of folks to our sales force but we are top-grading our sales force and the folks we have right now are much more productive than they've been in the past.
And so it's really sales productivity and mostly improving business fundamentals.
Joe we've talked a lot about also the fact that on the disposal side how important pricing is there.
And when we see same-store average MSW rates up approaching 4% and kind of we've just talked about CPI being close to zero in almost a zero-inflation economy we're pretty happy with that.
And at the same time we see almost 6% growth in MSW volumes.
To us that's really where we've got to dig in is on the disposal side of our business.
Joe I was going to add also that you mentioned – you opened with price comment.
And we've maintained that approximate 4% core price number while improving volumes.
We also had rollbacks for the quarter at about 18% so that's a real improvement versus prior year.
So all of those factors have helped improve volume and we've maintained a price focus.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And to Jim's point on the industrial line our new business pricing is actually higher than our average rates.
And so we're seeing real strong pricing on the industrial side.
Look industrial volumes are as close to a spot market as we have as we've talked about many times and the spot market right now is very strong.
And so you should be getting both positive price and positive volume.
Obviously that will moderate as we come into the seasonality and the weather of the fourth quarter and the first quarter.
But I would expect to see that improve both volume and price improve as we come out of the winter and get into the seasonal uptick next year.
Inc.</span></strong> That's great color.
And let me actually just follow up on that.
You guys have made it clear that you do want to manage to a certain price increase.
And I guess the specific metric that you're looking at is core price.
Jim you mentioned better rollbacks and I think David you said something about the industrial business not necessarily coming in at a lower price.
So I understand there are some nuances here.
But how are you incentivizing the sales force to really minimize the impact of rollbacks and lower new business coming online with the exception of industrial? Joe our sales incentive plan for the account mangers that manage our current business is directly linked to how much price they get for their current customers and whether or not there are rollbacks.
So it is a direct impact on that sales rep when they increase rollbacks or they don't get their price.
So it's a direct link and that has...
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So it's not just core price...
No...
Inc.</span></strong> It's also looking at rollbacks and where they're bringing on new business? Absolutely.
New business pricing...
Inc.</span></strong> Perfect.
...the payout as well.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And Joe look when it comes to sales inventive plans I think everyone that's ever managed a sale force would love to have EBIT as the core metric rather than revenue growth right? Because you can get revenue growth at low margins and that doesn't do anyone very much good.
We've got a tool that we're rolling out in 2015 it will be fully rolled out in 2016 that will allow us to measure profitability at the customer level.
At that point in time I would expect us to relook at the compensation plans and say okay rather than focusing on revenue and price let's start now focusing on the actual EBIT that we're generating and start incentivizing folks to generate higher EBIT.
How do you that? By selling the right volume by selling the right volume at the right price.
And so we've got compensation plans in place right now that I think drive the right behavior; that's only going to get better through 2016 and into 2017.
In the meantime Joe we have absolute control over the pricing the area level and the corporate for the larger accounts.
So we know exactly where our reps are going in from a price standpoint on an overall basis.
So we're not waiting for that tool to help us in that regard.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thanks for the all the detail.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Hoffman of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you all for taking my questions.
If I could follow back up a little bit around the solid waste and the commentary on volumes just to slice it once a little bit differently.
If you looked at the same store volume trends on front-end loader business residential and your permanent rolloff because I get that temporary has been very strong – on the permanent.
What's the trend on the same-store basis for each of those lines in collection? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> As far as waste go? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
The volume.
Just what's the direction? Is it positive flat negative? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean obviously it fluctuates slightly quarter-to-quarter but I would tell you the trend line is that both of them were slightly – actually slightly negative this quarter.
But the prior two quarters they were up.
And so I would tell you the trend line is up.
So we – and service increases have exceeded service decreases.
So I would tell you that that every trends outline that we look at – and as you know Michael I haven't been saying this for the last three years – but every trend line we look at right now is positive.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So just so I make sure I understood that the overall trend in permanent roll-off front-end loader and residential since – weight – since every day this stuff goes across the scale – is positive which indicates this improving volume pattern structurally? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I would say that's true for commercial and industrial.
Residential we frankly we don't look at that.
We look at that a little bit differently than we look at the other lines of business.
So we're not as focused on waste on the residential side.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Fair enough because it's really about the asset utilization of the equipment going down the route.
How do you – how would you frame your churn trend at this juncture as well both the direction and then the rate of replacement? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So the rate of replacement actually has improved fairly dramatically over the last four quarters.
And the churn rate so this quarter we saw about an 80 basis point improvement in the churn rate but it's stubbornly stuck it's sort of that 10% to 10.5% churn.
Our focus in 2016 is going to be to try to drive that churn rate down below 10%.
Now look again this is a simple business if you want to use price as you lever.
We could drive that churn rate well below 10% if we just acceded to every single customer asking for a price rollback.
But as Jim pointed out our price rollback trends are actually very positive too.
And so again when you look at the combination of trends you can look at rollbacks and say boy rollbacks are going great but if you're doing it via price not so great.
And what we've done over the last two years is seen the churn rate come down – marginally not as much as we like to see it come down.
But we've seen the rollback rates also perform very well while not giving away the price.
And so the combination of the three is very positive.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Fair enough.
And if you look – go ahead sorry.
I want to add one other thing quickly to it.
And that's the addition rate I think you had mentioned – questioned as well.
Dave said it's very positive.
I mean we're about 200 basis points positive on the addition rate.
And that's really helped some of the – especially the commercial volume.
We're positive in dollars in 15 of the 17 areas.
And the other two are fairly close and making real improvements versus prior year.
So the trends are positive as Dave stressed.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And on the churn given it may be stubbornly where it is how do you think about it as that which you control versus that which you don't and that which you control isn't so much about price as it's more service-oriented things that you could fix and that you could keep doing what you're doing on price? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean roughly half of it is structural.
Companies going out of business or relocating.
So that leaves you 500 basis points to 600 basis points of churn that is voluntary.
And you've hit the nail right on the head.
I mean every study that we've done since I've been at this company for 15 years tells us that price is not the primary reason for churn.
Now price becomes the primary reason for churn when you have a service failure.
And so I always liken it to the cable companies.
We all get a flyer every week that offers us lower price for cable.
There's probably a lot of people that accept that and say let's take it every time we can get it.
But 90% of the folks say you know what the cost of changing out is too high so I'll accept the fact that this price might be a little bit higher but I'll accept it because the pain of switching is too high until the cable starts going out or the satellite dish starts going out.
And then all of a sudden that price offer looks pretty attractive.
But every study we've ever done says that service failures drive churn and that's why we've reinstituted what we had when I first came to the company 15 years ago the service machine program which when I came here 15 years ago did a great job of rallying the company around the customer.
And we've tried to do that in the last 14 months that's exactly what we've been trying to do rally our company around the customer and we're seeing some really nice progress in that regard.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> And when you think about the efforts in productivity and service optimization is that what's giving you the comfort to say 10% goes – we go below 10% in 2016 as you correct that missed pickup which is usually driven by a truck that broke down things like that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
And you hit another great point which is it's not just wanting to have great service it's also being able to provide great service by having a truck that's operating which goes back to maintenance and fleet and all of those types of issues.
And so what we've done Michael is try to take a holistic view of what causes a service failure.
And you're absolutely right a lot of times it's because we don't have a truck that can service it.
And so when we look at driving it below 10% we really need to have all of our operations working in conjunction with our sales folks to execute flawlessly.
And I will tell you not just at Waste Management but throughout the entire solid waste industry it is stunning to me that we do our jobs every day as well as we do them.
But at Waste Management what we've said is the good is not good enough we have to be great and that's what Jim's got the company focused on.
Michael one thing that we've changed in that regard you mentioned the missed pickups you do a missed pickup measurement and we're pretty good.
We compete with almost any in the industry around missed pickups that are reported by the customer.
We've taken another view of that we're looking now as Dave mentioned the maintenance side we're looking at service failures where perhaps if a truck went down late in a day and we missed half a route and we're going to pick it back up tomorrow.
Well that's a missed pickup from the customer's view and we're adding that to the metric and looking at it a little differently than just past when the customer responded to a missed pickup trying to add and restore that confidence where a truck went down.
And fleet's part of it but the real issues also surround our call centers and how well they are connected to the field and we can respond to that customer's need in a more timely matter.
So it's a huge focus for us it's been that way in the past but we're adding a little more color to it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then Jim Fish I think I understand what you're saying about free cash but I just want to say it out loud to make sure I get it.
So I'm picking a number just to frame it if $1.5 billion is this year's number.
And all things being equal that number would be mid-point of the $300 million to $340 million is – $350 million so is $1.5 billion is down by $350 million because of more cash tax and then it grows based on all the other things you would do.
And your intention is to pay some of that $350 million this year so the $1.5 billion would be less – it's smoothing your cash which is perfectly appropriate.
I just want to make sure I understand it.
Yeah.
I think that's – I'm not sure I'd use the word smooth but that's about right.
One thing I would say Michael about free cash is that we're pleased with – here is – we've been kind of a $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion free cash flow company over the last six years.
And I think what you're seeing is in 2015 and going into 2016 for those two years is we're starting to become more of a $1.4 billion free cash flow company and that is really a function of all these things we've talked about but it's largely organic growth for us.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
So if you didn't prepay anything it's not an unreasonable observation that sequentially the cash could be down.
That's not a bad sign it's just the timing of big flows like that.
If we didn't have BD in all that we wouldn't be talk – having this conversation.
That's right.
Without question Michael.
If we didn't prepay anything because of the big headwind that we've got we'd be down.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think Jim's point shouldn't be lost which is we're sort of establishing a new baseline to say we're a $1.4 billion baseline free cash flow generating company.
Now some years we might generate $1.5 billion $1.6 billion; other years – and to the extent that we can prepay those cash taxes to ensure that next year we hit that baseline of $1.4 billion and we don't have those headwinds we ought to do that.
But going forward I would tell you Michael that $1.4 billion is sort of our stepping-off point.
Obviously we'll give more specific guidance when we give it in February.
But at this point I think we've gone from saying we're $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion baseline free cash flow company to we're a $1.4 billion base line free cash flow company.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah we agree.
So how do you think about the sustainable growth rate of that $1.4 billion if you took a five-year view? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean as we've said we think it's sort of a 3% to 5% a year type of free cash flow growth.
When I think about free cash flow Michael I will tell you I think about two things.
I think about – and it comes back to our capital allocation program which is we can grow free cash flow by doing acquisitions.
As Jim Fish like to point out we basically replaced the Wheelabrator EBITDA not through acquisitions but through improvements to our business.
We'll continue to add a little bit more acquisitions in 2016 as we talked about that $50 million to $70 million of EBITDA.
But then I also look at cash flow from a per-share basis.
And as we buy back shares cash flow per share is going to go up.
And so as I look at it when we look at our capital allocation program we're going to have a nice balance that's going to both increase operating cash flow but it's also going to increase cash flow per share.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then Jim Trevathan how would you frame the current on a same-store basis recycling plant capacity utilization? It's got 1 000 tons per day is it 60% or 80% run-rate and what can you do to improve that? Michael we're closer to that 80% than 60%.
Part of it is volume driven as well at specific plants.
Part of it is shutting down a few plants in cities where we have dual capacity.
But that's the goal and there is still room for improvement there.
We won't stop at where we are with what 7% 8% improvement in cost year-to-date.
That's still going to go further into 2016.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Al Kaschalk of Wedbush Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everybody.
I don't know if this is a fair question for this morning's call or not but we'll give a shot and see how we do.
If I take a step back and look at the cost improvement side of the equation and to your point about nearly replacing all of the EBITDA from Wheelabrator are you suggesting that you're at the goal line on the sort of the cost – annual cost improvements in the business or what's left in the tank? No.
I wouldn't say that Al.
I'd say that's on the cost side – first of all I'll tackle it from OpEx and then SG&amp;A.
On the OpEx side we put – over the last few years we put on-board computers in all of these trucks.
And I would tell you we're only kind of at halftime with respect to using the onboard computer to its fullest capability.
For example we can route our trucks dynamically.
But that doesn't do any good unless the driver follows the route that the computer generates and we're only following that route – if you think about best-in-class a FedEx or a UPS probably follows the route 95% or 97% of the time.
We're kind of about 80% of the time.
So while that may seem like pretty good and it is okay that last 15 to 20 percentage points is worth a lot of money.
So there's a lot of process work that's going into – we've put the technology in place.
There is a lot of process improvement that still needs to take place on the OpEx side.
Maintenance cost is another component of OpEx and I would tell you we're probably not at halftime on maintenance costs.
We're more like in the first quarter on maintenance costs.
We don't use data as well as a lot of companies; a lot of big companies use data to really proactively address maintenance cost as opposed to reactively addressing it so you're not breaking down on the road.
And we don't use it to the extent that we could.
And so there is I think a lot of upside with respect to operating cost going forward.
Jim Trevathan talked a bit about the upside on the recycling side of our business with cost.
And then SG&amp;A look our goal for the last three years has been to get to a number below 10% of SG&amp;A.
I think that's – because we haven't fully replaced the revenue side of Wheelabrator and the divested businesses 10% of SG&amp;A is going to be a challenge but holding flat on SG&amp;A while we still give our employees a merit increase is no easy task.
And so we plan from 2015 to 2016 again to hold flat on SG&amp;A and that's on top of the $60 million that we said we will get this year.
Hey Al I might add to Jim's mentioning of the onboard units.
We were positive in all three lines of business on the collection side in Q3 in efficiency.
And we're really starting a hard look at cost per unit and starting to move the needle on a CPU basis where – which is where the money is not just in a unit measurement on homes per hour for example.
And that'll have a really impact.
Volume has helped but that's not the driver.
We're still negative for example in residential volume as Dave mentioned and yet we were positive on the efficiency side and moving that way on the CPU with real upside left as we fully implement SDO and some of the process work that'll continue to work across all districts.
Inc.</span></strong> Are you able to or has David put any thresholds in terms of the dollars of cost of operation to come out either on an annual basis or margin improvement and basis points? I mean all of these – I appreciate the macro commentary and I know there was one on truck efficiencies done that 15 basis points 20 basis points.
But is there any way to help on the operation side to talk about maybe some goals and where that's at on a quantified basis? Al we don't – I don't think at this time we're going to give you guidance for 2016.
But we absolutely have targets both in dollars and in metrics at the area level at the district level and all of these we expect improvement and hold people our sales accountable as well as our areas they hold their districts accountable.
But this isn't just a shot in the dark we had absolute dollar and metric goals for each of these metrics.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And in that regard I would say we're 33% to 40% there on the cost target.
Like anything when you start out with a cost program it is the hardest thing to do in a company.
And so we're about 33% to 40% of the way there but we're pretty confident that we're going to hit that target.
It's a multiyear target we're pretty confident that we'll hit it in the next two years.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
We'll certainly be watching right? How many – on the acquisition side did I hear all areas were targets including energy service and energy waste? Is that fair about what you have in your line of sight is not – is more on the solid waste side? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
What I'd say is we're primarily focused on our traditional solid waste business.
But well let's now retract that.
We are only focused on our core solid waste business.
We're not looking to do acquisition outside of our core solid waste business.
Right now what we're looking at mostly is what I'd call our traditional solid waste business but we do believe that industrial waste and energy services are part of our core solid waste business.
But when it comes to industrial waste we would certainly look at assets in that arena because that dovetails perfectly with our industrial footprint.
On the energy services side I'd tell you that if we were to do a deal in energy services we'd do an opportunistic deal.
We are not actively looking to go out and expand our footprint dramatically in the energy services businesses like we have been in the past.
But if we can find some deals that are opportunistic and at the right price we certainly think that long-term energy services is going to be a good line of business.
It's not going to be a good line of business for the next year or two.
So we've got to see something on the long-term horizon at an opportunistic price if we're going to invest in energy services.
Inc.</span></strong> I don't have much in the way of discussion on hazardous waste.
Is that something you're less focused on or just it's not imperative from an operational distribution point and collection route down to the type of market? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I think yeah I think that's exactly right.
It is a great line of business that completely overlays our footprint.
The reality is that there are a lot more traditional solid waste providers out there that we can buy than there are industrial waste providers.
And so I wouldn't say that that we would – we certainly would not preclude any transaction in industrial waste but right now we're a little more focused on traditional solid waste.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I think that's enough for now.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Tyler Brown of Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning Tyler.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey I don't want to get too caught up in the vernaculars here but can you give us what average yield was in industrial and commercial? I just assume that including the impact of churn it's a bit more meaningful as volumes are improving? Yeah.
The average yield on the commercial side was 2.6% and on the industrial side was 3%.
Inc.</span></strong> Perfect.
Thank you.
And Jim Fish just a quick clarification but when you talk about exceeding the $1.5 billion of free cash are you including or excluding divestitures? Yeah we're including it.
There is a not lot there.
It's – we excluded the big ones last year.
So we've always included them but they are cats and dogs and add up to not a huge number but obviously last year we had to exclude them because they were all so big.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
But you are including them in the $1.5 billion this year? Correct.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Okay.
So I'm just curious so what is exactly exceeding – what's driving the exceeding of the range? I mean are you coming in better on cash from ops or is it that CapEx is tracking towards the lower end or is it a little bit of both? No.
It's definitely not the – it's not the latter for sure.
CapEx...
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
...
is kind of at the high end of the range.
The range we gave for CapEx was $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion.
We're at the high end of that range.
We may even go a little bit over the top of that range so it's certainly not because of that range.
So it's certainly not because we're tightening down on CapEx.
I think it is more – when I look at EBITDA that's really in my mind kind of the best barometer for how a business is performing and our EBITDA seems to be performing quite well.
Some of it's from yield and the big puts there are really yield operating expense.
And then the takes are kind of poor energy services business our energy services business could be down as much as 30% for the year.
So that's been a big take that we haven't really talked about but – and it just nets out against the progress we're making on the others – on the EBITDA line.
However the improving volumes have obviously helped as well on the free cash side.
Inc.</span></strong> Sure sure.
Okay.
Good.
So if I think about though – and I appreciate that you're giving 2016 guidance but I'm just looking at the buckets.
So if we start from cash from ops of call it $2.7 billion $2.8 billion wherever you guys end up this year you are going to get back the $40 million of Central States payment that you won't make next year you're going to get some core EBITDA growth just in the base business you've got – we've talked about the M&amp;A that may be in the pipeline that comes on.
And then you are going to lose the $300 million to $400 million of higher cash taxes.
And then kind of whatever we think you'll do with that prepay.
Is there anything else big-bucket-wise though that I'm missing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I think working capital we're making some progress on working capital.
There is a lot that runs through that line but – and you mentioned one big thing that ran through it this quarter the Central States pension fund exit.
But we're making a lot of progress.
It kind of got masked a bit this quarter because of that Central States but with DPO up 3.9 days and DSO down 1.4 days it's pretty impressive improvement considering that it wasn't too long ago a couple of years ago where we were kind of a 20-day to 25-day difference in the wrong direction with 45 47 on DSO and 22 on DPO.
We're now up over 30 approaching 31 on DPO and down at 42 on DSO.
So that we shouldn't lose sight of that that has a big impact on cash.
Inc.</span></strong> Sure okay.
So working capital might help a little next year as well.
Okay.
And then on the M&amp;A I'm just curious is that $50 million to $70 million of EBITDA with Justice at this point? For review? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Or does it have to go to review? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
That level of purchase price it has to go to Justice.
And we do have one transaction that's going through Justice and some others in the pipeline.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Perfect.
And then maybe just my last question for Jim Trevathan but it sounds like your core solid waste business is pretty solid but I am curious have you guys seen anything if even small a deterioration in the hazardous waste side of the house or maybe anything on your industrial services lines? No Tyler we haven't.
It's been very strong for us this year.
The base business more so than the event business we – our sites are from a geography standpoint sitting right where most of the construction in the petrochemical industry is occurring.
Given the low energy cost therefore the low feedstock for that petrochemical industry our Alabama and our Louisiana sites it's a really good spot for base business as that industry grows.
EBIT business in the – on the West Coast on the haz sites have been very good especially the Pacific Northwest and places in the Southeast maybe not so much so that's kind of a mixed bag.
But we're very happy with that business and expect it to continue to improve.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Tyler we just Jim – anecdotally Jim and I met with some of our big customers a couple of weeks ago over in Louisiana and those guys are all as Jim said kind of the beneficiaries of lower energy pricing.
We've got the producers that are – and the service providers that are kind of taking it on the chin but you have the consumers that are benefiting and we met with some big customers of ours who are consumers and they're very positive about their industrial business with us in 2016.
In fact our haz business even though it's still small relative to our solid waste business our haz business is up year-over-year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Yeah I assume Emelle is very well positioned to capture that petrochemical story over the next few years.
Lake Charles is better.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah perfect.
Okay.
And then just lastly have you guys seen anything on the coal ash side? Is there anything to think about as we look to 2016? Yeah.
I mean look we're in the early stages here of this opportunity.
What we are seeing is that it's – we think it's a good long-term opportunity for us but it's also a pretty capital-intensive.
I guess that can be a good thing because it serves to differentiate us from some of the small guys that can't put the capital into it but it still is very early.
We're starting to see some of these companies make some decisions about coal ash and we feel like we're well positioned.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay perfect.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Tony Bancroft of Gabelli.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Good morning.
On the – back to the energy waste business with slower sustained crude prices and customers probably pretty cash-strapped by now are you seeing any issues with your contracts with them renegotiations concessions? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean they've come back to us over the last probably 12 months and asked for the price concessions.
In some cases we've made some price concessions in some cases we haven't.
It's as much of as anything a function of where our assets are relative to the drilling that's taking place.
But certainly there has been some real pressure in that business and that's why our revenue will be down probably 30% for the year.
Got it.
And then I know you discussed the M&amp;A on your energy services side.
But what would you – so if a deal were to be done on a one-off basis like you mentioned what would you – what would be a – what's the going rate right now? Could you give me sort of a ballpark what you'd think to be paying? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Going rate in terms of a multiple is that what you're asking? Yeah yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's – I don't know I'm not sure the multiple changes but your forecast changes right? In the other words it's a multiple of EBITDA and we aren't paying trailing 12 on EBITDA.
What we're going to do is say okay let's look at a forecast of what we think's going to happen over the next three-year five-year 10-year horizon and let's discount it forward and figure out a reasonable multiple to pay.
But I would tell you again when I look at our pipeline of acquisitions I would say that the pipeline that is the least full would be energy services.
I mean we are not actively looking at any transactions in energy services of any magnitude.
And so like I say we'll be opportunistic but we're not going to be as actively searching for deals in energy waste as we are going to be actively searching for deals in solid waste.
I've got that.
Thank you so much.
Your final question comes from the line of Adam Baumgarten of Macquarie.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just a quick one on dividend.
I mean you talked about this sort of 3% to 5% free cash flow growth going forward.
I mean is that what we should expect for the dividend or could we see some upside there in the years ahead? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah we've always said we want to have a balanced dividend where we want to have a payout ratio somewhere around 50%.
We want to be in the top quartile of S&amp;P 500 dividend-paying companies.
We're in that sweet spot right now.
We've had pretty consistent growth in our dividend over the last few years and I'd expect that to continue.
Inc.</span></strong> Good.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
You have a question from the line of Barbara Nov (1:05:29)...
– I'm sorry.
I will now turn the call back over to Mr.
Egl for closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you.
I'll fill in for Ed.
I wanted to thank the entire Waste Management team for some spectacular business results.
But every once in a while an event happens that makes you realize that the reason that we all are here is not for business it's for family.
And we actually had one of those events yesterday when Jim and Renee Trevathan welcomed Georgia Marie (1:06:04) their grandchild and...
Number eight Dave.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Number eight.
We feel old.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> So Jim's going to start some routing program for the grandchildren because he now has eight of them running around.
It makes you realize what's important.
And I certainly hope that Georgia Marie (1:06:22) has as good a 2016 as we expect to have at Waste Management.
Thank you.
Thank you for participating in today's Waste Management conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 PM Eastern Standard Time today through 11:59 PM Eastern Standard Time on November 10 2015.
The conference ID number for the replay is 32546520.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 32546520.
The number to dial for the replay is 855-859-2056.
This concludes today's Waste Management's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Karnethia and I will be you conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ed Egl Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Mr.
Egl you may begin your conference.
Thank you Karnethia.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are David Steiner President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Fish Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jim Trevathan Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Before we get started please note that we have filed a Form 8-K this morning that includes the earnings press release and is available at our website at www.wm.com.
Form 8-K the press release and the schedules to the press release include important information.
During the call you will hear forward-looking statements which are based on current expectations projections or opinions about future periods.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Some of these risks and uncertainties are discussed in today's press release and our filings with the SEC including our most recent Form 10-K.
David and Jim will discuss our results in the areas of yield and volume which unless otherwise stated are more specifically references to internal revenue growth or IRG from yield or volume.
During the call David and Jim will also discuss our earnings per diluted share which they may refer to as EPS or earnings per share and David and Jim will also address operating EBITDA and operating EBITDA margin as defined in the earnings press release.
Any comparison unless otherwise stated will be with the fourth quarter of 2014.
The fourth quarter and full year 2015 and 2014 results have been adjusted to enhance comparability by excluding certain items that management believes do not reflect our fundamental business performance or results of operations and by excluding amount attributed to businesses and assets divested in 2014.
These adjusted measures in addition to free cash flow are non-GAAP measures.
Please refer to the earnings press release footnote and schedules which can be found on the company's website at www.wm.com for reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures and additional information of our use of non-GAAP measures.
This call is being recorded and will be available 24 hours a day beginning approximately 1:00 PM Eastern Time today until 5:00 PM Eastern Time on March 3.
To hear a replay of the call over the Internet access the Waste Management website at www.wm.com.
To hear a telephonic replay of the call dial 855-859-2056 and enter reservation code 21854213.
Time-sensitive information provided during today's call which is occurring on February 18 2016 may no longer be accurate at the time of replay.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of Waste Management is prohibited.
Now I'll turn the call over to Waste Management's President and CEO David Steiner.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Ed and good morning from Houston.
2015 was a very successful year as our commitment to core pricing disciplined growth and controlling cost generated our highest adjusted earnings per share ever.
We grew our income from operations and operating EBITDA and achieved the highest operating margins we've seen since 2010.
We generated earnings per share of $2.61 in spite of the divestitures of our Wheelabrator Puerto Rico and Eastern Canada operations and headwinds from recycling commodity prices and foreign currency translation.
In 2015 we saw the execution of pricing productivity and growth strategy strengthen our foundation in a way that will lead to continued growth in 2016 and beyond.
During 2015 our strong free cash flow allowed us to return almost $1.3 billion to shareholders in dividends and share repurchases.
We've seen solid growth in cash generation in our business over the last few years and we're confident that our free cash flow has reached a new base of at least $1.4 billion per year up from the $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion level that has characterized the last several years.
As a result of confidence in our cash flow our board decided to increase the dividend by 6.5% in 2016 and to authorize up to $1 billion of share repurchases.
We acquired Deffenbaugh and several small solid waste companies in 2015.
And in early 2016 we closed on the acquisition of Southern Waste Systems or SWS.
The acquisition of SWS and other smaller tuck-ins we expect to close in 2016 should generate between $50 million and $75 million of operating EBITDA in 2016.
As we previously mentioned the operating EBITDA from these acquisitions won't translate into earnings per share in 2016 because we'll have corresponding intangible amortization.
However the transactions will generate cash flow in 2016 and incremental earnings starting in the second half of 2017.
Looking at our operations in 2015 our pricing programs continued to drive earnings growth and margin expansion.
When we gave initial guidance for 2015 we targeted core price of 3.8% for the full year and we exceeded that target.
For the full year our collection and disposal core price was 4.2% with yield of 1.8%.
We've now seen eight consecutive quarters with core price of 4% or greater.
For the full year core price in the commercial line of business was 6.1% industrial was 8.6% and the landfill line of business was 2.4%.
For 2016 we expect core price to be about 4% and total revenue growth from yield should again be in the range of 1.5% to 2%.
Our pricing themes continue to perform at high levels and we'll continue our focus on price in 2016.
But pricing excellence is not a one-year project at Waste Management it's a way of life.
We must get pricing to keep up with inflation and we have the tools and the people to do that indefinitely.
Our traditional solid waste volumes which include our collection transfer and landfill volumes were a negative 0.5% for the full year.
But importantly we saw positive trends throughout 2015 with traditional solid waste volumes improving sequentially each quarter culminating in a slightly positive fourth quarter.
Although commercial and residential were still negative we continue to see positive momentum in those volumes particularly in our commercial line of business.
In that line we have seen six consecutive quarters in which the rate of decline has improved.
And commercial collection was down only 0.7% in the fourth quarter versus down 1.3% in the third quarter.
Our continued focus on disciplined volume growth and customer service is paying dividends.
Our churn was 10.1% for the full year the lowest level since 2012.
In the fourth quarter it was 9%; the lowest level since 2002.
And we did all of this while reducing rollbacks in 2015.
So we're keeping our customers through improved service not price concessions.
We saw our new business exceed our lost business for the eighth consecutive quarter.
These are all positive signs that our volumes are headed in the right direction without resorting to lowering prices.
Total company volume which includes lower margin recycling brokered and non-solid waste volume decline 1.6% for the full year with the fourth quarter being the best quarter of the year declining only 0.9%.
For 2016 we expect that traditional solid waste volumes will be positive.
However we do not see a recovery in recycling and non-solid waste volumes which will lead to overall volumes being about flat.
Of course some of the recycling volume that we lose is a direct result of our efforts to shed unprofitable volume.
So losing certain volumes in the recycling business is not such a bad thing.
And we expect that overall volumes will turn positive in the second half of the year.
As you can see the price and volume trade-off continues to be very positive.
For the full year the company's income from operations grew 4.6%.
And our income from operations margin grew 120 basis points.
In addition operating EBITDA increased about 3%.
And operating EBITDA margin increased 130 basis points to 26.5%.
Our solid EPS growth was achieved despite a $0.09 per share decline from our energy and environmental services business which has been affected by the sharp decrease in market prices for oil a negative $0.04 impact from foreign currency translation and a negative $0.04 impact from recycling operations.
Looking more closely at recycling we made significant progress improving operating costs and on renegotiating contractual terms with our customers including exiting some unprofitable contracts.
Our recycling employees worked hard and reduced gross operating expenses by 15% and changed contracts where possible to allow us to charge a processing fee where we previously paid rebates.
Without these operational contractual improvements we had estimated that the recycling impact could be as much as a negative $0.08 to $0.10 per share as average commodity recycling prices declined 17.5% in 2015.
However the operational improvements lessened that negative impact to negative $0.04 per share.
On the recycling commodity price front 2016 has seen a continuation of the downward slide and current prices are down $20 per ton or 23% from January of 2015.
These are levels that we've not seen in nearly seven years since the 2009 recession.
If we do not see a normal seasonal uptick in commodity prices and prices remain at January levels this would be a $0.02 to $0.03 headwind in 2016.
We're committed to recycling and we'll continue to work to change the business model to generate revenue that covers our processing costs and drive out operating expenses so that the business is sustainable over the long term.
Turning to free cash flow.
Our strong operating results coupled with continued discipline in capital spending allowed us to generate $1.41 billion of free cash flow in 2015.
Included in that free cash flow number was a $150 million prepayment of 2016 cash taxes.
We had mentioned on the third quarter conference call that we'd make this type of prepayment given that our cash flow is going to be above the high end of our $1.5 billion range.
Consequently we increased our 2016 guidance to between $1.5 billion and $1.6 billion.
So when we look at our success in 2015 and our guidance for 2016 we look at three things.
First is price.
In 2015 we exceeded our goals.
And for 2016 it's pretty much locked and loaded and already in process.
So we're very confident we'll meet our 4% target in 2016.
Second is costs.
Again we did well in 2015.
And we believe there's plenty of room to improve in 2016.
So again we're very confident.
And finally volumes.
In 2014 and 2015 we built momentum.
And for the first time in many years I'm very confident that we'll see our volumes turn positive toward the end of 2016.
So we go into 2016 with a lot of confidence and look forward to another strong year.
We expect that our continued execution of these strategic priorities will drive 2016 adjusted EPS to between $2.74 and $2.79.
And we expect operating EBITDA to grow at the fastest rate in 10 years up 5% to $3.6 billion.
But we can't do it without our people.
I'd be remiss if I didn't thank them for their hard work and professionalism.
And I know they will once again prove their value in 2016.
I'll now turn the call over to Jim to discuss our fourth quarter results and our 2016 outlook in more detail.
Thank you David.
We produced solid growth in earnings and cash flow in 2015.
And it would've been even better when you realize that recycling is down $0.30 per share from its peak.
That is why we need to maintain our focus on fixing recycling.
As David said we're committed to recycling.
And for the last two years we've been working to improve our recycling business.
We want to see recycling thrive because it's the right thing for our environment and it's the right thing for our customers.
We just want to make sure it's the right thing for our shareholders.
We performed well in 2015 navigating the recycling headwinds which I'll discuss in a moment.
But we're in the fourth year of low recycling commodity prices and we are currently seeing these commodity prices at the lowest levels we've seen since the 2009 recession.
Since there's little we can do to affect global market conditions we're doubling down on those areas we can control.
We've tightened our belt on investments.
We're driving operational efficiencies.
We're working with our community partners to reduce the amount of expensive contamination at our MRFs.
We're optimizing our MRF network and we're tackling the slow difficult but necessary process of changing the terms of our contracts.
Together these actions produce real measurable results in 2015 and are expected to make recycling profitable over the long term.
Initially we expected the headwind in the recycling line of business would be between $0.08 and $0.10 of EPS.
However the full-year impact ended up only $0.04 negative.
That was not driven by an improvement in commodity prices but was due to the actions that we took to improve recycling operations.
Recycling was one of several market factors we overcame in 2015.
In addition to the $0.04 impact from recycling we had a $0.09 per share headwind related to low demand for energy and environmental services a $0.04 impact from foreign currency changes.
Despite these market pressures our EPS grew more than 13% to $2.61 per share in 2015.
We overcame those headwinds through cost controls and strong growth in our traditional solid waste business and those efforts will continue into 2016.
At the beginning of 2015 we expected to see a $60 million improvement in SG&amp;A costs when compared to 2014.
I'm pleased with our 2015 results as SG&amp;A cost for the full year improved $68 million to $1.34 billion and improved as a percent of revenue by 20 basis points to 10.4%.
For the fourth quarter SG&amp;A costs were $343 million an improvement of $27 million compared to 2014.
As a percent of revenue SG&amp;A costs improved 70 basis points to 10.6%.
For 2016 we will continue to focus on managing anticipated wage increases cost inflation and incremental SG&amp;A brought on from the acquisitions.
But despite these increases we anticipate that SG&amp;A costs should be flat when compared to 2015.
Turning to cash flow.
For the full year we generated $1.41 billion of free cash flow.
As we mentioned on our third quarter earnings call we expected we would have a strong year of free cash flow and that we would likely make tax payments assuming the tax extenders were not going to be enacted.
Therefore in the fourth quarter we prepaid $150 million of 2016 cash taxes.
For 2016 we now anticipate between $60 million and $70 million of cash tax savings from the impact of bonus depreciation which was reinstated by Congress at the 11th hour.
During 2016 we expect capital expenditures of approximately $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion.
In 2016 the impacts of organic earnings growth bonus depreciation acquisitions and higher capital spending should drive free cash flow to between $1.5 billion and $1.6 billion.
In the fourth quarter we returned $172 million to our shareholders through our dividends.
For the full year 2015 we returned about $1.3 billion to our shareholders consisting of $695 million in dividends and share repurchases of $600 million.
Our board has indicated its intention to increase dividends in 2016 by 6.5% to $1.64 per share on an annual basis and this is the 13th consecutive year of increased dividends.
In 2016 our anticipated annual dividends will result in approximately $730 million being returned to our shareholders.
We expect to spend around $100 million to $200 million on tuck-in acquisitions in 2016 with the remainder of free cash flow allocated to share repurchases.
We have authorization from our board of directors to repurchase $1 billion of our shares.
We've already repurchased $150 million and expect to spend an additional $500 million for the full year.
Fourth quarter revenues were $3.25 billion.
We saw a $59 million increase in revenues from acquisitions and a $50 million increase in our traditional solid waste business due to the combined impacts of pricing and volume.
We saw an overall revenue decline of $163 million from divestitures $43 million in lower fuel surcharge revenues a $34 million decline from lower recycling revenues and a $33 million decline in foreign currency.
Looking at internal revenue growth.
For the total company in the fourth quarter our collection and disposal core price was 4.2% and yield was 1.7% with total volumes declining 0.9%.
This led to total company income from operations growing $42 million operating income margin expanding 150 basis points to 17.7% operating EBITDA growing $37 million and operating EBITDA margin growing 150 basis points to 27%.
For the full year income from operations grew $97 million.
Operating income margin expanded 120 basis points and operating EBITDA grew $86 million and operating EBITDA margin grew 130 basis points to 26.5%.
Our collection lines of business continue to see the benefits of our disciplined pricing programs in the fourth quarter.
Our commercial core price was 5.8% with yield of 2.9%.
Our industrial core price was 8.7% with yield of 2.3% and residential achieved 2.2% core price and 1.5% yield.
Overall collection core price was 5.3% and yield was 2.2%.
Our focus on customer service which helped reduce our churn and disciplined growth also benefited our volume trends in the fourth quarter as volume declined only 0.6%.
The volume change was a 90-basis point improvement sequentially from the third quarter and a 190-basis point improvement from the fourth quarter of 2014.
This core price and volume led to operating EBITDA growing $11.7 million and margin expanding 30 basis points.
In the landfill line of business we saw the benefits of both positive volume and positive yield in the fourth quarter just as we have all year.
We saw same-store average MSW rates increase year-over-year by 2.4% from Q4 of 2014.
This is the 11th consecutive quarter of year-over-year MSW rate increases.
Total landfill volumes increased 0.5% MSW volumes grew by 11.1% and C&amp;D volume grew 15.8% while special waste and revenue generated cover volumes declined 7.4%.
The special waste decline was predominantly driven by the decline in our energy services business.
The positive volume and yield led to income from operations growing $15 million margins are growing 160 basis points operating EBITDA increasing $14 million and operating EBITDA margins increasing 120 basis points.
Moving now to operating expenses.
These expenses improved by $50 million in the fourth quarter and as a percent of revenue improved 80 basis points to 62.4%.
For the full year operating expenses improved $328 million and as a percent of revenue improved 100 basis points to 63.1%.
In 2015 our focus on improving operating costs saw a significant traction and we expect that to continue into 2016.
For the full year we saw improvements of $187 million in fuel costs $102 million in cost of goods sold and $35 million in labor costs as we continue to see the benefits from our routing and logistics program.
Finally looking at our other financial metrics.
At the end of the fourth quarter our debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 2.66 and our weighted average cost of debt was 4.32%.
A floating rate portion of our total debt portfolio was 8% at the end of the quarter.
The effective tax rate was approximately 32.4% in the fourth quarter and 32.3% for the full year.
Taxes were a $0.01 headwind to EPS in the fourth quarter.
In conclusion 2015 was a very good year for waste management.
As our employees did a great job on focusing on price disciplined growth and cost controls.
I want to say thank you to our employees for their hard work in delivering a successful 2015 and positioning us to continue that into 2016.
We're excited about continued growth from 2016 and beyond.
And with that Karnethia let's open the line for questions.
Your first question is from Scott Levine with Imperial Capital.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Scott.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Scott.
So it seems like steady-as-she-goes in terms of the organic growth trends that the pricing environment is pretty healthy that the volume environment is generally improving and is expected to improve albeit gradually with volumes inflecting positive by the end of this year.
But anything surprising either to the positive or the negative on the macro or the industry front either geographically or relative to your expectations – or really are things just kind of continuing to improve at a gradual pace and there is no real change in the operating environment in general? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Scott when I look at the business you can sort of say I think your right the growth is fairly muted from the economy.
But you can pretty much say the business is firing on all cylinders save two areas and that's recycling and energy services.
And I think we all know what the macroenvironments are for that.
I mean it's low commodity prices not just oil but cardboard and plastics.
So I think you hit the nail in the head.
It's steady-as-she-goes.
We continue to see the other lines of business doing very well and we don't expect that to end in 2016.
Scott I would say that the only thing that was surprising was kind of a positive we weren't surprised obviously by the headwinds with recycling or energy services.
But we were pleasantly surprised when you look at the construction business I mentioned we were up over 15% in C&amp;D waste stream.
And that really to us is kind of a foreshadowing of good things there in 2016.
Understood.
And then it sounds like you're baking in an expectation here of $50 million to $75 million EBITDA.
You've been talking about this for a while.
Could you tell us how – how much of this have you closed on with the SWS acquisition? How much remains to be closed? And maybe a little bit more commentary regarding the M&amp;A landscape in general and whether we may see some upside to your $100 million or $200 million spend or valuations in the marketplace a little bit more color there.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I would say 80% to 90% of it is locked in with SWS.
I mean that's going to be the big acquisition that we do in 2016.
When I look at acquisitions we've done RCI in Montreal.
We did Deffenbaugh in Kansas City.
And now we've done SWS in South Florida.
And those were spectacular acquisitions for us because they're a fairly large amount of revenue but they're also straight tuck-ins into our business.
And so we know exactly how to do them.
We know exactly how to get the dollars out.
It takes a little bit of time but we know exactly how to do them.
So the more of those that we can do the better.
We thought there might be a few more of those in the pipeline but those call them those $400 million to $500 million transactions we really don't see a lot of those on the near horizon right now.
So I think 2016 will be a year where it's mostly driven by tuck-in acquisitions.
But again we'd love to do some larger acquisitions like those three that we did in Montreal Kansas City and South Florida.
Pricing I don't think it's changed dramatically.
We've said it many times we generally pay a little bit lower price for those smaller tuck-ins and it's because you can pay a little bit higher price when you get that bigger bulk of business like we did down at SWS although even with SWS on a post-synergy basis we'll end up paying sort of 6 to 7 times EBITDA.
Got it.
And as a follow-on to that assuming – is there any change in your interest level in energy and industrial and – or if we get a floor in commodity prices on the energy side could we see your interest pick up as 2016 plays out or you're still focused predominantly on solid waste? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We're focused predominantly on solid waste and I think we've said it the last two conference calls which is look long-term I think energy services will be a great business.
But we're not out there looking for businesses.
I think it's going to be a prolonged flattening of oil prices.
And so – and energy services if we buy something in energy services it would be opportunistic.
We're not actively out searching for businesses in that line of business.
Got it.
Thanks David.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question is from Corey Greendale with First Analysis.
Hey.
Good morning everyone.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Corey.
Hi Corey.
So two questions.
First Jim I was hoping – Jim Fish I was hoping you could help bridge the cash flow from ops guidance from 2015 and 2016.
I calculate your guiding to a $300 million to $400 million increase EBITDA your guiding to $160 million so just what's accounting for the rest of the increase? Yeah so when we look at cash flow from ops or if I look at free cash flow because I want to include in there CapEx if I talk about free cash flow – and if that doesn't answer your question let me know but if I talk about free cash flow for 2016 I have a starting point of let's call it $1.41 billion from this year.
And then I'm adding in EBITDA growth.
You mentioned $160 million we're kind of calling it $170 million in EBITDA growth year-over-year which includes – that includes organic growth that includes some of the benefit of acquisitions.
I add in the impact of bonus depreciation which I mentioned was let's call it $70 million.
And then our CapEx is going to be a bit higher this year.
I mentioned the $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion range so back out $100 million in added CapEx I arrive in the middle of that range of $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion.
And keep in mind there Corey that the prepayments that we made in cash taxes is really offset by the benefit we got from the Q1 2015 debt transaction.
So those two kind of offset each other so that walk-forward works without a cash tax the cash tax difference.
That did it for my question.
Thank you.
And one clarification.
I think you've said this but the EBITDA that you're expecting to get from acquisitions the number that you gave is that only from Southern and new acquisitions? So in other words you're not including rollover effect of acquisitions in 2015? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah there's a small rollover effect from 2015 but the bulk of it would be the SWS and the tuck-ins we do in 2016.
Okay.
Then next question you addressed the environment in general when you were answering Scott's questions.
But given that we have a lower – a low CPI environment you're committed to continuing like you said pricing is not a temporary thing it's the culture.
I guess the question is how confident are you that you won't be pushing away more volumes as the year goes on given that CPI will be quite low? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Well look we've done it the last three years consecutively.
We've seen our churn rate come down while we've maintained that core price at 4% plus.
And so look it really comes down to making sure that you service your customer.
I mean if your customer is happy they completely understand that our costs go up every year and you've got to get those price increases.
And we've always said that it's a fairly small portion of our customers' overall cost structure.
So getting that price increase to maintain inflation plus really hasn't been difficult as long as you can maintain the service levels to the customers.
And so that's really where we're focused this year.
We know how to get the 4% core price.
We've got those plans like I said locked loaded and we're already executing them.
So we know we can do that.
The key is having that great customer service which allows you to keep that low churn rate also keep price rollbacks down and get that positive core price.
And so like I say we've got it sort of clicking on all cylinders but we can always do better.
Great.
And then on the kind of competitive and acquisition front David I'd just love to get your thoughts on whether the proposed Connections acquisition of Progressive has any impact on those markets and also whether you might be interested in some of the potential slots that may be coming out from that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Look I think Ron did a spectacular job in picking up that business and everywhere that we compete with Waste Connections they are a tough competitor but they are a fair competitor and so we certainly welcome them into the markets.
I don't know how to say welcome in Canadian but we welcome them into the markets.
But the other thing is I would love – I'm glad you brought it up.
I owe Ron a phone call to let him know that to the extent that they have to get rid of any business that we would certainly be interested in buying any pieces of those business that we can buy.
So I'll make sure to give him a call today and let him know that.
Great.
Let me know if you need his phone number I can send that to you.
And then just one last quick one if you don't mind.
I'm whipsawing back to Jim Fish.
Given the EBITDA guidance I'm coming out at a slightly different place on EPS.
I was hoping you might be able to give us some sense of what you're assuming on interest expense and share repurchases? Interest expense will be up slightly.
We finished the year at $384 million in interest – cash interest.
They will be up slightly not a lot maybe call it $5 million and then share repurchase look we said that we'd probably repurchase – we've already done $150 million.
We said we'll probably do another $500 million on top of that for a total of $650 million which kind of approximates what we bought last year.
We bought $600 million last year.
We have authorization for $1 billion probably won't spend the full $1 billion in 2016.
Got it.
Okay.
That actually moves me in the wrong – is there anything going on in the equity income or loss line or anything else below the line that's changing meaningfully from 2015? No.
Not that I can think of.
Maybe we can reconcile it for you.
If I look at EPS I mean that's what you're concerned about right is EPS? Yes.
If I look at EPS from $2.47 to $2.61 we had divestitures that were worth $0.18 so I'm backing those out.
And then we had – and I'm reconciling 2014 to 2015 for you here.
But then we had shares and interest.
We had traditional solid waste growth of $0.08.
We had some unusual items.
Specifically our energy services business was $0.09.
And then when I look at moving from $2.61 up to our range of $2.75 to $2.79 I'm really adding in the kind of our traditional solid waste growth that we expect and we talked about on the EBITDA line.
So hopefully that helps.
Yeah.
That's fine.
I'll let you move on.
If I come up with a question that I could ask otherwise I will follow up offline.
Thanks guys.
Thanks for the time.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question is from Tyler Brown with Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey David.
Just want to dig in a little bit more on the relationship between core price and yield.
So if we go back and look over the last few quarters including Q4 it looks like the spread between core price and average yields actually widened out.
And at least from an outside perspective it just looks like you're keeping less and less of that core price increase.
Can you guys talk a little bit about that relationship and why that spread is widening out? I mean it sounds like churn is actually trending well and the gap between new and lost business isn't widening.
So is it mix or what's going on there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah you hit the nail on the head with mix.
The reason we moved to core price is because core price is really an indicator of the price increases that we put across our current customer base.
To go from core price to yield you then put in – because we do it on a per-unit basis you then come in to a lot of things like mix.
And so the biggest thing that we think drove the disparity between the core price and yield was the fact that our energy services business was down fairly dramatically and those are very high-priced hauls.
Compared to – if you look at an energy service haul compared to an industrial container at a shopping mall the price per haul difference is dramatic.
And so the fact that energy services dropped off as we said $0.09 for the year when you saw that dramatic drop-off in energy services you lost a lot of those very high-priced pulls and that's where the biggest chunk of the disparity between core price and yield comes in.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Yeah.
No.
That's very helpful.
And then Jim Fish just can you help us out a little bit on cash taxes? You got lots of moving pieces here.
So first off just simply what was cash taxes paid in 2015? And then what is exactly contemplated in the guidance just the total dollar number just ballpark? 2015 was $434 million.
So if you assume that we've got the offsets for 2016 2016 is going to look like kind of that $433 million.
We'll get a benefit of about $70 million from bonus depreciation.
And then a piece of kind of incremental taxes on earnings gets us to a cash tax figure of around $400 million is our expectation for 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Good.
That actually answered my next question so I'll kind of move on here.
But just David really quick can you guys talk about where you are on the coal ash front? And is this – well first off how much did you move in 2015 if any? And then is this a key driver in your confidence in back half volume growth? Well so we're seeing – it was a piece of our growth in 2015 not a huge piece.
We've got one customer that has started with us.
We've got three different plants that we're working with them on.
Really one of them was started in June the other one started kind of November December and then the third will start in 2016.
So not a huge impact for us.
And we're kind of seeing the public utilities move at varying paces here in terms of remediation on that side of their business.
Recall there is this – there's another side of their business which is the perpetuity.
And so we can use either on-site management for their continuing needs we can manage it off site through our landfills or we can offer them beneficial reuse.
So we're equipped to handle all three.
We think that will ramp up in 2016 but not a huge impact in 2015.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Okay good.
And then just Jim lastly.
How much did you pay for SWS? Just what will we see on the cash flow statement in Q1? We paid $516 million for SWS.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Perfect.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question is from Jeff Volshteyn with JPMorgan.
I wanted to ask around the industrial side of the business industrial waste space doing well.
What I wanted to find out is just kind of an update on how much of your business is directly linked to the industrial economy? And when you look at the portions of the industrial (41:21) perm business temp business what do you see in 2016? Well it's interesting when you look at our industrial.
Our industrial line of business as we look at it includes a couple of different business types.
It includes large retailers it includes manufacturing and industrial.
It includes construction and it includes energy services.
And those really were – there was a wide spectrum there.
Construction as I mentioned earlier really finished the year on a high note.
So we're very happy with that and it looks like it's going to do well going forward.
The large retailers were pretty solid as was manufacturing and industrial.
Looks like – industrial production figures came out today and looks like they're decent and that's kind of what we saw as well pretty solid in manufacturing and industrial.
The one real soft spot and you'll hear it several times today was energy services and it got worse throughout the year.
So we were down 32% in our energy services business albeit on a kind of a small base there but down 32% and down 45% in the fourth quarter.
And looking through that kind of small lens we don't see energy services getting much better in 2016.
But overall if you want to think about how we talk about industrial it was – it more than compensated for the downturn in energy services.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think everybody gets concerned that there's going to be some kind of industrial recession.
I mean look in our business what you had happen last year was obviously you had the inventory build and then working off the inventory.
And that's what I think drove everybody to say oh gosh what's going on in the manufacturing sector.
As Jim pointed out you saw some good numbers from it today.
But when they build up the inventory and then they work down the inventory they don't shut down their plants.
They still operate their plants.
And so that really just doesn't have that big of an effect on us.
It doesn't have an effect on us until they shut down the plants.
And I don't think anyone's seeing a shutdown of plants.
I think they're seeing a little bit of a slowdown of the plants.
And so when we look at our industrial waste it really isn't going to be affected by the manufacturing and industrial space.
And then the final piece is that a lot of the low energy prices are a big boon to a lot of the manufacturing and industrial customers that we have in the chemical corridor all the way from Beaumont Texas up through the Midwest.
And so we see the manufacturing and industrial volumes actually being very strong.
As Jim said we've got a wide spectrum from extremely strong construction to weak on the energy services side.
And manufacturing and industrial I'd say would come in on sort of the slightly positive side of that spectrum.
So we don't see that particularly slowing in 2016.
And we expect industrial volumes to continue to be positive in 2016.
That's very helpful.
Just following up on the commentary I think from the last quarter.
You talked about some situations with shortage of drivers in the industrial side of the business.
Is that a material headwind heading into 2016? No I'll jump in Jeff.
It is a headwind but it's a weakened headwind.
We are doing much better in that regard.
The oil field services decline in 2015 has helped us in that regard in those markets where that kind of business exist as drivers have become more available.
It's still in some of the larger – the higher growth markets it's an issue for us but we're working through it much better in late 2015 and then we expect too in 2016 better than in that 2013-2014 period when the oil field service business was booming.
We'll manage right through it and we'll continue to grow our business on that industrial side with new drivers.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> But look it's a good problem to have right? I mean that tells you there's strong demand out there.
We'll take that problem six days to Sunday rather than the alternative.
One more question for me if I may.
On the CapEx side of the business looking into 2016 are there any sizable differences in sort of in the buckets of investments compared to 2015? No not anything sizable.
We'll spend a little more on fleet capital probably $20 million more on fleet capital.
We've got about $15 million that is related to Deffenbaugh and SWS acquisition that we'll spend.
And part of the reason we were a little lower than our guidance back at the end of Q3 in CapEx for 2015 was that we had some CapEx that was accrued and the cash didn't actually go out the door until Q1.
So we'll have a little bit of carryover and that's really what gets us from that $1.23 billion CapEx number from 2015 up to kind of the range of $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion.
Jim maybe just a little more color around the fleet side of our business.
Our supply chain folks and our field people have worked really well together.
In 2015 for example we purchased 12% more trucks than we did in 2015 but for the same total dollars as we expended in 2014.
In 2015 we bought 1 124 trucks about 11% average reduced price per truck than 2014.
So we're doing some standardization around the fleet.
It's helped us in that regard and some commitments to our suppliers that helped us with that reduction.
In 2016 we'll buy 1 234 trucks according to the current plan.
And it's about 10% more than 2015 but we'll only spend about 4% more in dollars than we did in 2015.
So we're making real progress there and we're investing in the fleet.
But we're just doing it more efficiently.
That's very helpful.
Last one from me I promise.
What is the impact of the one – or the leap day in the first quarter? The impact on what? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Leap day.
Leap day.
One extra day.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We actually have one extra day total in the quarter.
We had one fewer in January we have one extra in both February and March.
And theoretically that extra workday probably costs us a little bit of money because our cost structure is a little bit higher than the additional revenue that we'd get.
But it shouldn't have a material effect on the quarter.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question is from Michael Hoffman with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much David Jim and Jim for taking my questions.
Jim Fish on the free cash if you were to pull out cash taxes entirely and look back over a trend how would you characterize the growth rate of your free cash ex the variability any given year of cash taxes what's happening operationally before the tax impact? I guess I would focus on EBITDA for that question Michael because really that's where – that's the biggest component and that's where we spend most of our time is on EBITDA.
And we saw EBITDA grow nicely last year kind of in that 3% range and we see it's – we see it replicating that again organically and then we'll have some EBITDA growth from these acquisitions in 2016.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
With that said then if I looked at your expectation for the $3.6 billion in 2016 what is the underlying margin assumption in the EBIT and the EBITDA? So EBITDA would – you know look if you – there's always the question of what happens to the top line.
If we don't have these kind of top line impacts that are kind of out of our control such as foreign currency and fuel surcharge if you assume the top line doesn't have those we'd expect to see EBITDA margins improved somewhere between 50 and 100 basis points.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And EBIT what about the EBIT margin? I don't have a number for your there Michael.
I'll have to get back to you on that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Behind that question is does D&amp;A stay flat on a percent of revenues or is it up or down with the mix shifts that are going on? Yes.
It should stay pretty flat on a percent of revenue basis.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then when I think about that question that's been asked a couple different ways what is your share count in your assumption for $2.75 to $2.79? Share count at the end of last year was 455 million shares and in our plan we've got 445 million shares.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then if you did spend $1 billion it would imply that you would borrow money to do that.
That's the right interpretation.
Correct? I guess...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It depends how the cash plays out during the year and then when you buy the shares right? And so what we've said is that we're going to basically spend – we aren't necessarily going to spend the whole $1 billion.
We will spend the difference between dividends and what we do in acquisitions from – subtract that from the total cash flow and the remainder will go to the stock buyback.
And so we're sort of planning on the $600 million type of dollars on the share buyback.
If we go above that we'd either have to generate more cash or have less capital in the year or we'd have to borrow it.
But right now when we draw down on our revolver we're drawing down at 1%.
Our balance sheet at 2.66 times is in great condition.
So we don't have any intention to borrow to buy shares.
But certainly we have the ability to do it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Well I guess where I was coming from on that I don't necessarily think it's a bad thing because you're delevering naturally and there seems to be logic in leverage in a 2.5 times to 3 times just from a cash tax planning standpoint.
The rate of the improvement you're delevering pretty quickly.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Absolutely.
Yeah.
I mean Michael if you look at our – if you look at free cash flow and you just take the middle of the range of $1.55 billion and back out dividends of $730 million let's back out – we've kind of said $100 million to $200 million in tuck-ins so let's back out $150 million for that that gives you $670 million.
That's kind of right where we've discussed today would be share repurchase.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
And then the one sort of in the weeds question around the industrial side is you do operate five hazardous waste landfills what's the trend been volume-wise there? Michael Jim Trevathan.
It's been as we ended the year and as you saw some of the petrochemical plants gearing up some with a low – their low feedstock cost it's been okay.
We've done fine at both Emelle in Alabama Lake Charles in Louisiana.
Kettleman has got the new permit and online and adding some volume.
So overall that business is doing well for us.
It's not as you know a huge part of our total revenue but it's an important part because it differentiates us from those large – four of those large customers with capability to handle everything from their trash and recycling to their hazardous waste.
And they like our balance sheet as we just talked about.
And our capabilities are full for them.
So it's been a – it's a good part of our company and we expect to grow it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It has been very nice for us Michael.
And frankly if I look at the various pieces of businesses and think can they get better or worse? This is one that I think can get better both organically just because of the growth in the volumes.
But we can also extend the reach of these landfills.
Right now we've got fairly limited reach without transfer capabilities.
And over time if we can improve those transfer capabilities we can extend the reach of our hazardous landfills and both grow volumes because we see growth in overall volumes but also because we can extend our reach and take volumes out of further-away geographies.
Yeah and Michael an example of that of our commitment to that business is in the fourth quarter we did a small tuck-in kind of transaction and acquisition in California that helps us with internalize some volume at that new Kettleman-permitted space.
So we are committed to that business to growing it and looking for opportunities in that regard.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then Jim Trevathan while I've got you if we're 50 to 100 basis point margin improvement you're getting 20 basis points out of G&amp;A per Jim Fish the rest has got to come from ops.
Some of it's fuel because they clearly – they've got a favorable trend.
But where would I look in the line items to see that incremental improvement coming from? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> One area Michael is labor.
If you look at all three collection lines of business in 2015 we were positive in efficiency in all three with obviously a couple of them still negative in volume.
That's one excellent indication.
If you look at those three lines of business collection lines are a cost per unit business all three of them are in that 1% range and with inflation just driver labor cost in the 2% 2.5% range that's a pretty good number and you see that in our labor cost improvement.
We rolled out our SDO initiative across all 17 areas service delivery optimization.
We're focused on two things in that regard.
Let's sustain it where we have it working well and let's improve it.
Let's find best practices as areas have implemented it now for a couple of years and we're looking for new ways to utilize some of the logistics and the technology that our corporate operating team is providing us to get more labor cost out of that and continue to improve on the efficiency.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Next question is from Joe Box with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning gentlemen.
It's Sean Egan on for Joe Box.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Hi Sean.
Inc.</span></strong> I wanted to dig in a little bit into your pricing guidance for 2016.
Looking at that 4% versus the 4.2% posted in 2015 is that sequentially lower simply due to lapping more difficult comparisons? Is it conservatism on your part? Any color there would be appreciated.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Look 4% has sort of have been our target for the last three to four years.
And so we want to maintain that target.
We obviously overshot that target in 2015.
I'm virtually certain we'll get that 4% in 2016.
If we were going to not hit that target the question is would it be lower or higher than that target.
I'm also very confident that if we miss the target we're going to miss on the high side not on the low side.
But I don't think there's anything to read into the difference between 4.2% and 4.0%.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
And then kind of piggybacking on that with respect to yield outside of CPI can you maybe help us understand what some of largest drags would be to beating that 2% top of the range? I mean would it be the mix that you talked about earlier with the energy business? Any (57:15) there is helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
The two biggest components of that would be mix and then new business pricing versus lost business pricing.
Those are two big components that go – that don't affect the price increase that you're putting on your current line of business but that does affect yield.
And so that would be – it would be mix and the difference between new business pricing and lost business pricing.
And David if I added a third to that it would be rollbacks.
And we've managed those really well over the last couple of years.
We're positive in 2015 versus 2014 and we expect that trend to continue.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
So what you just alluded to earlier the new business pricing how is that holding in say compared to a year ago? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Our goal is to drive that new business pricing to 10% or under.
And I would say right now we're sort of at the high end of that.
As the economy improves and as we've seen a good pricing environment I would expect us to over time to be under that.
But right now we're sort of at the high end of that 10% discount.
And Joe if I add a little more color the industrial line of business the roll-off line we're within that target with the commercial side just outside it and working hard to improve it.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then I wanted to talk a bit about recycling volumes.
Just curious where if you know the recycling volumes might be going that you have shedded in favor of price.
Are customers choosing not to recycle? Are they choosing independent operators? If you have any sense of where it's going that would be helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Most of the volume that we've lost have been large residential contracts and that volume is turning into net losses for our competition.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Understood.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I can promise you we know what those prices were bid at.
And at these commodity prices there is nobody making money on those contracts that we gave up.
Especially Dave with the capital required.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Exactly.
With a new contract where typically that customer wants new trucks we make that decision around return on invested capital as well as margin.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And frankly those contracts just to be very clear those contracts generally have not been lost to our solid waste competition.
They've been lost to people that are solely in the recycling business.
And if you're solely in the recycling business and you take on another underwater contract you can see that story is not going to end very well for those folks.
Inc.</span></strong> Understood.
That's all for me.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Al Kaschalk with Wedbush.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Al.
Hi.
Inc.</span></strong> David I have one simple question.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No you don't.
Inc.</span></strong> Why can't Waste Management post positive volumes like their peer group? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Look this is an easy question to answer.
Because you can't look at just a volume number.
You've got to look at what is that volume made up of right? If that volume is made up of brokered volumes you're not making any money on it.
If that volume is made up of recycling volumes you're not making any money on it.
And so when I look at the volumes I don't say look at the overall volume number I say look where the volumes are coming from.
So for us we've got positive volumes in the industrial line which is a very high-margin line for us.
We've got positive volumes in the landfill line which is the highest margin business that we have.
And we're about to turn the corner to get positive volumes on the commercial line.
We're at negative 0.7% in the quarter.
I would expect to see that turn positive during 2016.
So we're adding volume in the high margin areas.
We are losing volume in recycling.
We're losing volume in brokered businesses and we're losing volume in non-core.
All very low margin businesses.
And so if you get positive volume and margins go backwards I don't see that as a good volume report.
If you get negative volumes and margins go up by 150 basis points I view that as fairly positive.
So I think it's a very easy question to answer.
We look for volumes where we can make money on those volumes.
We don't look for volumes for the sake of volumes.
And so – but having said all that in those money-making volumes we're going to see the overall volume number turn positive in 2016 and that's what I look forward to.
Look this is a high fixed cost business and layering in that volume on the high fixed cost allows you to drop a big flow-through to the bottom line.
So I think we've done the right thing.
We'll continue to do the right thing.
We'll continue to add volumes where we can make money.
Inc.</span></strong> Hence the progression on EBITDA margin.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Exactly.
Inc.</span></strong> I guess (62:28).
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Exactly.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
As a follow-up – thank you for that.
I guess I have a second question then.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I told you.
Inc.</span></strong> The commentary around the industrial environment economy and yourselves being opportunistic when you can why would you not or are you suggesting to keep our eyes open on being more aggressive on that hazardous piece of your business which I guess would be – I don't know if I'd say is as profitable but maybe you could articulate that for us? But why wouldn't you get more aggressive on acquisitions on that front? Well I'll jump in.
I mentioned earlier that we did as we added airspace at Kettleman in California we went out and found the right tuck-in for us to add volume.
So we invested in that business in the second half of 2015 and we'll continue to look for those opportunities that can improve both our margin but our returns especially.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> But look what we need to do in our hazardous waste line of business is we need to develop a national transfer network so that we can leverage our landfills.
We would love nothing more than to be able to buy that and go very quickly to do that.
But there's just not a lot of businesses out there that meet those needs and that are for sale.
So in the meantime we're going to do it organically.
And so we're going to – we're going to grow that network one way or another.
But right now given the state of the acquisition market right now we're going to do that organically.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Good luck guys and thanks for your time.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks Al.
Your next question is from Charles Redding with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hi.
Good morning gentlemen.
Thanks for taking my question.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Perhaps just a follow-up on transportation how should we think about the impact on Northeast landfilling volume from the lower transportation costs? And then with reduced diesel is it fair to expect collectors to bypass closer incineration units really in favor of the longer haul sites just based on price alone? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah when you see the transportation costs go down which is what happens with the fuel you basically open up landfills that are further away right? And so we've actually seen pretty nice growth in our Northeastern landfills.
I'm not sure that I'd attribute it 100% to the lower transportation costs but we've seen nice volumes both in our Northeastern network and then in our Southern network.
We would expect that – we'd expect that to continue into 2016.
I always say to a certain extent low fuel prices are both good for the economy but they're also good for our business.
Great.
And just a follow-up with apologies on energy services can you be a little more specific in terms of those types of hauls that are seeing the most pressure from lower spending and maybe too early to think about any nascent stabilization here year-to-date? The types of haul that are seeing lower spending – look we haul – most of what we haul is drill cuttings.
And then we haul some waters we haul a little bit of NGL.
So clearly the big piece that has declined is drill cuttings.
But what's happened is you're seeing these – the rig count has dropped off by 60%.
So they are not drilling.
They may be leasing property but they're not drilling nearly as much as they were a year ago.
And so as a consequence the drill cuttings coming out of those holes are not moving to our landfills.
So I think that answers your question.
It is – because it's the majority of our energy services business that is what's causing the biggest drop-off.
Great.
Thanks for the time.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question is from Tony Bancroft with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Thanks.
Could you please add just some little more color maybe on the renegotiations for your recycling some of the lower – the unprofitable recycling contracts and CPI-linked contracts? I realize that you said it's a small portion of the customers' cost structure and you guys in general are more prone to not – you said – you always previously said that if you can't do anything at CPI you'll go get it somewhere else.
But maybe just like where are we in a sense maybe on a percentage maybe some kind of gauge where on a percentage basis of what needs to be renegotiated and how far along you are? Is there some kind of maybe general big picture inning type thing of where you are along in that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
On the recycling front I would say we're about 75% to 80% through renegotiating the contracts.
And the contracts that we haven't renegotiated we can't do anything more about because they're basically sort of long term contracts and we just have to eat the losses on those contracts until the contracts come up for bid and hopefully at a higher rate or they will go to someone else who is welcome to lose money on them.
And so on the recycling front we're probably about 75% to 80% through.
On the CPI front about 20% of our business – our CPI-related business is either on a floating index that more approximates the Waste Services Index or they're on a fixed price increase track with over 2.5% fixed price increases.
In other words 2.5% is sort of our inflation rate.
About 20% of our contracts are either on a CPI-based measure or – that is not CPI but would be for example the Waste and Water Index or what we call a Solid Waste Index.
And so that runs at a higher rate generally than our 2.5% inflation.
And then we've got other contracts where they run higher than our 2.5% inflation because they have fixed price increases at over 2.5%.
So about 20% of our business is under those types of contracts.
So there's still a lot of room to go on the residential and on the national account side to get those CPI contracts moved up but we're about 20% through it.
That's great.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question is from Barbara Noverini with Morningstar.
Inc.
(Research)</span></strong> Good morning everybody.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.
(Research)</span></strong> Somewhat related to the last question but if we're looking at a lower-for-longer commodity price scenario for recycling how much further can you take the operational improvements that you've been speaking about? Would you have to consider more aggressive restructuring actions or is there still a lot of runway for this sort of operational cost saving customer education et cetera that you've been describing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
When we look at recycling we've made some great improvements.
I think there's still plenty of room for improvement.
But at this point in time basically what we're down to is we have a series of plants and those series of plants generally revolve around a large contract a large municipal contract or other contracts.
So if we lose that large municipal contract absolutely we would probably have to shut down that plant because we don't have enough volume going through that plant.
We don't have any that we have on the early time horizon where we think that will happen but that's basically how we'll have to respond to a low-for-long commodity price.
We still have operational improvements we can make.
We think we can pull out sort of that 5% to 10% operating cost for a few years.
But then any bigger restructuring we don't have any planned right now.
If we did any of that it would be based upon large contract losses that we would have if we have those.
And just a reminder we have consolidated over the last two years roughly 20% of the total number of facilities.
Most of them smaller but where we've either lost on profitable volume and can move the remaining good volume into a larger facility in the same MSA.
So we've already done some of the physical rationalization.
And we're working towards the operational side of efficiency now.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> But let's not lose sight of the fact that if the industry changes what we've said is we won't bid contracts unless we can be guaranteed that we recover our processing cost and then we'll split – and a margin of profit and then we'll split any excess with the customers.
But if there is no excess then the customers are going to have pay for the processing and profitability.
If we can get contracts on those terms we're not going to be shutting down plants.
We'll be adding plants.
And so what we're trying to get to is how we can make this business sustainable for the long run.
I think we've done a spectacular job with our recycling folks of doing that.
I'm a firm believer that the industry is going to follow just because the economics don't allow them to do anything different than what we're doing.
And so I think over the long haul even in a lower longer commodity price environment I think we can grow recycling.
So we're looking forward to doing that over the next few years rather than shrinking our footprint.
Inc.
(Research)</span></strong> Yeah.
That makes sense.
Thanks for the additional detail.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
At this time there are no questions.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks.
Well just in closing as we said we're real confident that we can hit our targets in 2016.
For the most part everything seems to be clicking on all cylinders.
But you can't do it just because you have a good economic environment or you can't do it just because you have the best assets in the business.
You absolutely have to have the right team to execute.
And so I'd say all the way from our senior team here in Houston and out in the field all the way down to our leadership out in the field all the way down to our frontlines we've got the right team and that's why we're so confident that we're going to grow this business in 2016 and well into the future.
Thank you.
Thank you for participating in today's Waste Management conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 P.M.
Eastern Time today through 11:59 P.M.
Eastern Time on March 3 2016.
The conference ID number for the replay is 21854213.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 21854213.
The number to dial for the replay is 855-859-2056.
This concludes today's Waste Management conference call.
You may now disconnect.