Good day and welcome to your W.R.
Berkley Corporation first quarter 2010 earnings call.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to introduce Mr.
William R.
Berkley.
Mr.
Berkley you may begin.
Our general counsel will now read our Safe Harbor statement.
The speaker's remarks may contain forward-looking statements.
Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words including without limitation believes expects or estimates.
We caution you that such forward-looking statements should not be regarded as the representation by us that the future plans estimates or expectations contemplated by us will in fact be achieved.
Please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31 2009 and our other filings made with the SEC for a description of the business environment in which we operate and the important factors that may materially affect our results.
W.R.
Berkley Corporation is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any such obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
We are going to start by having Rob talk a little bit about our operations and Gene talk about the financials.
Then I will pick up and talk a little bit about anything they left out and then talk a bit about the industry and where we see our business going.
We were pleased with our quarter and generally happy with our results.
So now I will turn it over to Rob.
Go ahead Rob.
Thank you good morning.
In aggregate the quarter was in line with our expectations certainly by most measures the environment remains competitive and some might describe the market as two steps back one step forward but more recently we are encouraged to see a growing number of isolated situations where perhaps it can be described as two steps forward and one step back.
Some of the areas that are also in the greatest level of competition continue to be as in past quarters commercial transportations construction and product liability and a bit disappointing but a reality one could add some of the professional lines over the past quarter to that list particularly large account D&amp;L.
The company had a good quarter particularly given the environment the gross premium was down to mere 2% coming at $1.126 billion.
Our price monitoring indicated that are pricing was flat and our renewal retention ratio was in the 80s.
We ended up delivering a combined ratio of 94.
This is made up of a loss ratio 59 and the expense ratio of 35.
It’s worth noting the 59 includes $23 million of the storms as well as tax.
And the expense ratio was predominantly driven by lower earned premiums as well as start up expenses with some of our younger organization.
When you go cut through all the moving pieces as far as reserves and storms and cash our best estimate is that our current accident year is running give or take around a 100 combined.
If you take a step back and you look at our history and our approach to reserving there is certainly evidence that could suggest that it is possible that that number could improve as the year develops out.
A couple of sound bytes on the five different segments maybe cutting right through to the chase as far as the one particularly noteworthy outlier that would be our international segment.
It came in with a combined ratio of a [111].
This was in part driven by an expense ratio of 44.
and this was really due to some of the fact that we have a significant number of start ups in that segment including our new Lloyd’s syndicate our operations in Australia our effort to build our business in Brazil as well as a few branches that we have created in Western Europe as part of WR Berkley Europe our FSA company.
Having said that we also had some cat losses related to the Chilean earthquake to the tune of $4 million which hit our Lloyd Syndicate.
Our regional segment had a very strong quarter coming into the 92.7.
They incurred $15 million of storms.
It’s worth noting that this market place continues to be exceptionally competitive and there is a fierce tug-of-war that seems to be going on amongst a few national carriers and we are doing our best to stay out of the way of that battle.
Berkley North Pacific our newest regional company in the North West is getting the traction that we would have hoped for.
And our surety business is enjoying the early signs of improving US economy.
Moving on to the regional segments continues to be a challenging environment for our re-insurance companies.
Perhaps the greatest challenge comes from our receiving partners or the company that see business to us.
In an effort to support their top line they seem to continue to buy less re-insurance.
As a result of this and this reality over the past several quarters our expense ratio has been picking up.
This has also driven by our underwriting discipline.
It’s worth noting that we clearly recognize that there are two types of partners.
There are those that try and see business to us in an effort to try and arbitrage our capital and there are some that are true partners through out the cycle.
We recognize these two different groups and approach them accordingly.
It's also worth mentioning that the Reinsurance Group encountered $4 million of cat losses through a relationship that they have in Lloyd these cat expense from also the earthquake in Chile.
The alternative market was not insulated from the challenges of the environment altogether having said that they have faired particularly well given what they are dealing with.
Obviously as traditional risk transfer solutions quite frankly evolved to a very much buyers market people are not interested in trying to find ways to stop insuring.
Workers compensation remains a competitive line.
This level of competition though varies greatly depending on the territory.
Our accident and health business is getting great traction and we are particularly pleased with the progress that's being made in the medical stop-loss case.
And finally our specialty segment which arguably is facing amongst the greatest challenges throughout the industry.
The specialty market has been under a great deal of pressure over the past several quarters mainly driven by the admitted market or the standard market increasing its share of the overall market place.
We have seen business migrating from the specialty lines into the standard market and as that has happened we have seen an eroding of terms and conditions.
Unfortunately in the past 90 days for the first time we have been seeing terms and conditions eroding within the specialty market.
More specifically we are seeing specialty players who have gotten to the point that they can't find a way to give anymore on fine so unfortunately what they have decided to do is cave on terms and conditions.
Historically this has been a sign of the last shoot of drop or the final straw so while it is certainly disappointing and challenging in the short run it is encouraging and leaving us to believe that the change in behavior is not in too distant far.
To make a long story short our sense is that the pressure in the marketplace is building everyday we remained focus on maintaining the appropriate level of underwriting discipline and we wait patiently for the inevitable change.
Thank you all Gene you want to pick up the financial? Okay thanks Bill.
In spite of the level of catastrophic loses and storm activity in the insurance marketplace this quarter it was another solid quarter for us in terms of both our underwriting results and our investment performance.
Our net premiums were $984 million which is a decrease of 4% from a year ago although premiums were down slightly in the quarter the rate of decline was about three points lower than it was in the preceding quarter so we are seeing an improving trend there.
Premiums while at start of the company on a gross basis were up 39% to a 166 million and accounted for about 15% of our overall gross premium volume.
While our domestic business declined by 5% through our premiums for the international segment which has a higher proportion of new businesses increased by 9%.
The overall lost ratio was 59.1 down three points from the first quarter of 2009.
Favorable reserve development increased 54 million a year ago to 62 million in the current quarter and represented about a seven loss ratio points.
Reserves developed favorably in all five business segments with a majority of the favorable development in the specialty and regional segment.
Weather-related losses for the regional segment were $50 million up slightly from $9 million in the prior period and losses from the earthquake in Chile were $8 million including $4 million in the re-insurance segment and 4 million in the international segment.
Our paid losses decreased by $3 million from a year ago.
Our accident year combined ratio was just over a 100 if you include the cat and storm losses and about 98 without the cat and storm losses.
Again Rob said the loss estimates embedded in these combined ratios reflect our conservative approach to reserving especially for recent years that have greater uncertainty and higher risk of inflation.
The expense ratio was 35.0 that up 3.5 points from the first quarter of ‘09 and 6/10<sup>th</sup> of a point from the fourth quarter of ‘09.
the current quarter expense ratio includes approximately 1 full point of incremental expenses for start-up companies that have to yet to reach sufficient scale to cover their expenses and it also includes another point related to several large reinsurance trees with above average commission rates that are fully offset by lower loss ratios.
The overall combined ratio was 94.1 compared with 93.7 a year ago and the combined ratio was below 95 for all four of our domestic segments.
The international segment combined ratio of a 111.5 includes four points from the earthquake and five points for expenses related to three new companies in that segment.
Net investment income was a $139 million that’s up about a $0.5 million from a year ago.
The portfolio mix is basically unchanged from year end with 89% invested in fixed-income securities 5% in our arbitrage account 3% in equity securities and 3% in investment funds.
The average duration of the fixed income portfolio was 3.7 years at March 31st up slightly from 3.6 years at the beginning of the year.
The annualized yield on the portfolio was 4.3% down slightly from 4.5% in the first quarter of ‘09.
Earnings from the arbitrage account were basically unchanged from a year ago.
Unrealized investment gains increased $62 million to $400 million at year end and income from investment funds was $5 million and unrealized investment gains were $6 million.
That gives us an operating earnings of $0.70 per share and operating return on equity of 12.4% for the quarter.
After the impact of share buybacks we bought back 33.8 million share for about $95 million in the quarter after the impact of those re-purchases as well as dividends our book value per share increase 3.6% to $23.80 at March 31st.
Thanks Gene.
Well we continue to see signs of the market reaching its bottom but clearly the psychology that was required for a turn of the cycle of any dramatic proportion is not yet here.
Certainly again in line in certain lines of business prices are not just firming but prices are increasing.
In general though as Rob said prices are flat the declining prices while it still exits in some areas has general stopped.
Competition is continuing however for the largest risks and we see it sporadically especially in the closing periods of every quarter where people are trying to make budgets and getting aggressive.
The other thing we see is people occasionally are starting to have to pay the piper for their prior year’s poor judgment.
So we are starting to see some people not only not having any redundancies to release but have deficiencies that they have to deal with and we expect that that's is going to continue.
The overall environment is still not positive.
people haven't face up to the fact that today the industry is probably in general at 110 combined ratio in an accident year basis even the best companies in the industry are at a 98 to 100 on an accident year basis.
There are number of good companies still have significant redundancies but you still have to look at that 110 best companies just under a 100 and the current level of investment income which is delivering for the average company a zero rate of return and for good companies 10% at best we are optimistic that the cycle is still going to turn we expect it to turn by the end of the year.
we think you will start see price increases as people approach the end of the year do their budgets for next year and have to look realistically at where things are and our general view is unchanged about price increases of substantial amount in the fourth quarter.
We believe that there continue to be opportunities to right business where customers recognize they buy insurance in order to get claims paid and what’s been unsaid here is a number of the most aggressive competitors are behaving in ways that historically this industry has found unacceptable under being more difficult payments and claims and more aggressive in resisting their claims responsibilities.
We think both the agents brokers and ultimate customers are going to migrate towards those companies to take their responsibilities more seriously and to understand people buy insurance to take claims and get them paid.
So we are optimistic that we’ll continue to be able to hold our own expand our position.
There continued to be people talking to us because we find that our opportunistic approach to be in growing to expand even in this difficult environment offers traction to people who are experienced and like our disciplined style.
With that I’d turn this over to question’s Mary.
First quarter just following up on your comment there at the end about the opportunities that your are finding.
Can you talk to despite the environment that we are in how is it that you are able to find these new opportunities? And really grow this start up?  This is still a people business Mike and relationships still exist novelty and expertise is really the grounding of this business and while its not easy to build a large business.
There is a core of relationships that go with people who have expertise and knowledge and if you can attract those people you are always able to build the starting point of good business.
We haven’t been able to make a number of those businesses grow as much as we’d like but we think by getting outstanding people we are able to get traction pretty quickly.
Not only as quickly as we like them.
But its still as I said it’s a people business and that represents the reason we have been able to do this.
Okay.
And then how much does the idea of joining Team Berkley sort of incentivize those people on the outside? The person who they usually talk to first is Rob and when I let Rob talk and then he is more modest than I am so after he talks then I’ll probably tell you my less modest point of view.
I think that certainly for many people we offered attractive alternative perhaps where they currently are or other alternatives because of our general approach to the business that is reasonably decentralized and we are great believes that the folks that are closest to the frontline are the ones are in a position to make the best decisions but consequently we empower them and give them the authority.
So I guess long story short I think people find our organization attractive yes because of our financial strength but the real reason is because we have a track record that allows that would suggest that people given the authority and the economy to run those business as opposed to being exposed to being micro managed by some giant centralized home office.
I think a good example is our budgeting process we don’t direct goals as the volumes or anything else our budgets come from each operating unit who then tell us what they think they can do and we have a dialogue about it as opposed to us telling them what we expect.
Many people who come here for the first time are shocked that we actually do what we say.
But our segments are manageable there’s one person between Rob and I and the operating units that the Senior Vice President who is not a long line to get through if there’s not a lots of ways that you are prevented from talking to anyone of this organizations so it’s a very few tiers of people and easy to work in and focused on getting the job done.
We like to say we are outcome focused not process focused and there aren’t many companies that have our resources that are still able to do that  Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thanks for the insight there.
And one final question just around your comments with the industry accident you are probably somewhere around a 110.
Can you talk to more specific lines of business that maybe you are above that 110? And those are maybe below.
I guess more importantly those that are above?  I don’t really.
As you know having listened to our calls before we don’t get into discussions about the individual lines of business on these calls.
Not within your own company but just within the industry.
It’s just as dangerous for me to do that so I'm going to pass Mike.
Just a couple of quick questions.
First I guess maybe Gene.
Was there any Forex impact adverse or favorable under international business for you? A modest amount about $5 million in the quarter if they stay favorable gain.
$5 million favorable that will be in premiums mainly? No it's normally when we' will have an overseas operation that has invested in a currency other than its own functional currency.
Okay that make sense.
I guess the second question would be more of overall capital management question.
Obviously you are pretty aggressive with your buyback this quarter.
You indicated that a general appetite for buybacks given the current conditions.
Could you remind me first of all what your current authorization is a dollar or share amount? It's about 11.5 million shares it's not stated in the dollar amount.
It's 11.5 million shares I would assume that you saw the appetite to buyback as current conditions would hold? We don't even tell people when and how and where we determine what to buy a stock back that's not something we just play out we bought back shares and at times we do and times we don't.
We are interested in buying back stock when we think it's good for our shareholders and that maybe today or may not be today but we think it's not something we just play out.
It gives us less of an advantage for our shareholders if we tell the people on the other side the transaction what our plans are.
On investment income is that number a little light relative to last quarter as a result of the buybacks which look like it occurred mostly in early part of the quarter? I think the buybacks due to occur in the very early part of the quarter.
I think the investment income is basically flat.
It's not light I think that in part being quite as a function of you're always running a race especially when we have older higher yielding paper coming off and investing in that current interest rate.
So it's a foot race to maintain our yield.
On the net investment funds can you talk a little about the $4.7 million there that includes the mortgages and if I heard you right can you just kind of talk about that line relative to that last quarter? What you mean what makes up them?  Yes what’s the number relative to kind of where we were we were last quarter there.
I just wanted to understand.
It’s basically what you it is not much change really it is evaluation changes some oil and gas funds that we have in Canada or which is probably the biggest single piece then it is real estate.
We have two real estate funds.
The balances is basically unchanged from its been   You mentioned our qualitative matters as far as your service profile claims paying and these other aspects of your business that differentiate you from others.
Are you seeing that get equal footing or more footing now relative to just pricing and could you talk about whether or not that behavior or physiological change happened prior to the last cycle turn.
One of the things that I’ve tried to talk to people about is the state of mind that really drives the cycle change because it’s not just the reported numbers it’s when the fear of the business doing badly and the real results ending up being much worse than the reported results that cause people to act and as people start to see those adverse trends there are some companies that choose to tighten up their claims paying procedures and their behavior in the field gets more difficult.
Those companies always end up suffering.
So I think that the independent agent recognizes that.
The independent agent then starts to move away from those companies that they see behaving in an arbitrary way.
So we have benefited in general and cyclical turn as large companies and small also but primarily large companies get being tougher with claims and agents decide that’s not something they can deal with.
So we have benefited by that and in the last cycle the same thing happened.
No the answer that’s all (inaudible) that Credit Arrow [ph] continues to do better.
It’s a business.
I don’t think the margins are going to get better.
It’s an industrial company if you will they are doing better and I don’t think that will continue to have a significant increase in the margins.
It’s a little more volatile quarter to quarter.
I think they’re doing fine and it’s giving us a good return on our investment but I think you have started to see a significantly better economy before they would be really be benefiting.
And I don’t think you’ve seen it yet.
And you talked a little bit about professional liability in (inaudible) price I think.
Do you expect the recent Goldman Sachs news changed that?  Sorry could you repeat the question? I'm sorry.
I was asking whether the recent Goldman Sachs user charges is likely to impact pricing for specialized D&amp;O.
Unfortunately not.
We don’t think that the Goldman situation is all of a sudden going to dramatically change the appetite or the environment for a large account D&amp;L.
I think that you are going to see a series of significant SEC claims that will provide the required wake up call.
I think what we’re seeing right now is the greatest level of competition particularly on some of the lower layers as some of the folks that have been in the market place for some period of time playing some of the higher access layers or looking for ways over the past call it 12 months to elbow their way up to the table and perhaps become the next AIG so we will see with the time whether that works out or no to your specific question it is unlikely in our opinion that Goldman situation on its own will drive a change in market behavior.
And some of those people actually may become the next AIG without the government's assistance.
That’s wishful thinking unfortunately I am afraid but I think that the only loss that we see that could change a particular segment might be the drilling of rig loss in the Gulf where the loss is going to be very large loss it was the kind of loss that no one anticipated very high quality partners operating it in everyway technologically advanced rig.
Big loss not storm related not the kind of loss you would expect in a market that wasn't at the peak of competitiveness but was certainly competitive.
That's the kind of loss that might have an impact on the margin but generally speaking one loss or one issue like Goldman Sachs would not have an impact on the market.
Can you discuss the amount of shares you’ve bought back to date in the second quarter?  First of all no of course I can’t discuss what I have done in the second quarter.
Because then I would be saying something that I have little enough to say Jay what would I say of the second quarter call if I told you know.
Quartet to date just give us a taste for it.
No I can’t do my lawyer is sitting here is waving his finger at me saying lets not talk about it I am sorry.
All right because of the company actually did mention this one but let’s go to other question.
I have a lawyer who is bigger than me what can I say.
Rob you had mentioned you are seeing some sings of terms and conditions loosening up.
I am wondering how widespread that is? I think that how widespread it is kind of hard to articulate that you know Jay I think as we have discussed in the past on these calls and I think other occasions as well.
We have seen terms and conditions loosening or an extended period of time as I suggested that business migrated from the non-standard or non-admitted/specialty market into the standard or admitted market.
That just happens naturally but what we are seeing now and it seems to be becoming more widespread is an erosion of terms and conditions that are being offered within the specialty market.
And I guess our only conclusion is to wire a speculation as to why folks are doing it is because they finally realize that they hit the wall with pricing.
So in an effort to attract business well what they are doing is since they can’t give any to more up on price front.
They are just giving it up on terms and conditions.
How wide spread is it I don’t have a metric that I can share with you but certainly it is not something that we saw in a significant way in ’09 or prior it is something that has come somewhat out of the blue in Q1 of 2010 and I think that you would find that if you went back to sort of 99 - 2000 it is perhaps a page out of Berkley book as I also suggested earlier.
The good news is that when you get aggressive with pricing that takes a little bit of time to come home to roost.
Often times when you start playing with terms and conditions as it has been suggested in the past that’s one way to take long tier business and make it short tier business.
Thanks Rob last question on the claim side can you give us some flavor for what newly arising claims are looking like from a frequency standpoint actually weather of course? I don’t think there has been a particular change in our claims either frequency or severity.
There is nothing we [talked].
I think in general we would say that we have been more conservative in our claims reserving for a number of years having found ourselves short in 2001 to a greater extent than we ever anticipated.
I think that embedded in our claims process is a much higher level of conservatism which continues and redundancies continue to develop and the fact is there is nothing that causes us to see inflation trends or anything else that’s directionally changing where claims are going we are pretty benign.
On the margin for the business the [accident] in your loss ratio extent seems to be slightly better than the fourth quarter and significantly better than 2009.
Could you help us understand what’s driving the improvement? Is it business mix or is it your view that lost core strength are not as high as you had anticipated originally?  I think that it’s a couple of things I think there is some change in the business mix as Gene mentioned for instance in the re-insurance area.
Our expense ratio went up because we wrote some property business non-cat related property business that we knew ahead of time or to have a lower loss ratio with a higher expense ratio.
So that accounted for part of it.
I think another piece of it was we recognized that we will probably more conservative than we should have been in establishing our loss to extend a number of areas and we are trying to get a more precise handle as we look at it line-by-line.
And I think that finally some of the areas of business have proved to be more positive results than we expected.
That’s great.
And the third question is your exposure towards the Transocean rig if you could just give us a sense of what do you have any re-insurance on that and what your exposure would be?  The long and short of it our net including everything including re-instatement premium was something just low $5 million.
And we in fact will probably pay that claim this week and it was well within what we expect that’s the business we have anticipated loss ratio and its well within the numbers we have.
I was curious about the composition of the favorable development by acts in euro lines and if you can give any color to that? You know we don’t talk about that on the phone you are welcome to talk to Gene.
Okay lets talk about the industry in terms of a 100% for the quality players a 110% for the industry usually I think of the market risk property versus casualty running at a higher combined.
Are you just talking about lines that you are participating in or the industry broadly speaking? Josh I think what we are referring to is commercial lines ex-property cat.
Okay and is property running around the same as casualties.
Well.
I think what we are doing is we are looking at commercial lines in the aggregate ex-property cat we are not at this stage looking to have break it out the casualty or the property or the CMP versus it so that’s I think that’s a general view when we do our homework as to where we think the industry is running.
Okay very good.
And finally you spoke in the first conference call about potentially a 15% ROE for the year do you still think that’s achievable? Yes.
It’s a really simple thing by the way if you would take out our unforeseen storm losses our net income would have given us about a 14.8% return as of 13.5 net income I know if that wasn’t talked about operating income.
I talked about net income because we’ve moved our gains and a fair portion of that to where it’s not in our operating income.
But I still think that we will do that.
Yeah.
Rob you highlighted on the re-insurance side having partners and then dealing with arbitragers and I am just curious.
Are you seeing anything unusual in that breakdown seg.
No I think quite frankly you know just to make sure that we are on the same pace what I suggested certainly meant to suggest are there are two types of partners those that are opportunistic and want to use as one of its convenience for them.
And those that are truly our partners throughout the cycle.
And as far as the split between the two obviously in a challenging market.
Those that are opportunistic were not able to find ways to do as much as with them as we came in a hard market.
Those that are truly our partners throughout the cycle.
We value those relationships greatly and we continue on with them through second [sem].
So I guess to answer your question yes it becomes more waited in a soft market.
Towards those that are partners throughout the cycle as opposed to those that are trying [game up].
Okay but you are not seeing any of the more of the traditional relational partnerships and moving into to the other camp of trying to game the system? I think that the answer is in a soft market there is enough pressure for everyone to go around.
Having said that we have partners that are built on long-standing relationship we understand what our role is we understand what their role they understand what our role is and there is a mutual understanding that the relationship needs to be rewarding for both parties.
So is there a bit of fraying around the edges then certainly there is some relationships that we sort of question a little bit here and there.
But I would suggest that the core of that group is well intact and we are pleased to have the opportunity to support them and be their partner.
In many ways that relationship is no different than it is doing business with large insurance.
We don’t write very many if any Fortune 500 companies because they have finance capital and again there is a capital arbitrage.
We are happy to write insurance for people who want to buy protection from volatility protection from loss.
We are not interested in writing if you will risk arbitrage in the insurance business because frequently the insured knows more than we do about the frequency or likelihood of loss.
Bill I mean if I could summarize your position on the marketplace it sounds like on the one hand you think that the industry is at a 110 accident year and that’s clearly an impetus to change pricing.
On the other hand there is spectrum there is still lot of redundancies out there and that probably is going to mute things to some degree.
I mean can you just elaborate on the issue of redundancies in the industry and maybe you’ve got some historical perspective on this?  Why don’t we start by saying pricing levels based on our analysis are roughly at the kind of levels they were in 2000.
Inflation has driven costs higher than that and investment income is substantially lower than that.
So the industry is doing worse.
So you have to put that in the context of what we’re talking about.
But the past five years have been extremely profitable years and a number of companies not even intentionally but almost in spite of themselves have found themselves to be extremely conservative in prior years reserving because business was much better than they anticipated.
And as those loss years develop they are finding redundancies and the redundancies are proving to be far more than they had anticipated.
The companies that are in that position are not evenly spread.
Companies that reported results in the low to mid 80s are unlikely to have great redundancies.
Companies that reported high 80s low 90s are likely to have more redundancies than companies that reported somewhat higher results will probably continue to have redundancies.
So all companies are not going to be created equal with the amount of redundancies they have to bring down and it varies by lines of business the shorter the power lines of business the less redundancy or likely to have because they will have a merged more quickly.
So companies that are like private passenger automobile are not going to continue to have big redundancies in all likelihood.
Companies that have property business are not going to have accumulated big redundancies its going to sort of washout catastrophe business where they have shown great results virtually immediately after you didn’t have many cats.
Companies that had significant casualty business will have longer or at least a possibility of longer tail and accumulated longer redundancies that will take time to be released.
So it’s going to be different for every company but the third in the cycle is going to come about when people start to recognize the reality of where pricing is and that they need to do it and do something about it.
And you know we are running at a 97 - 99 or a 100 I can’t tell you but I can tell you that our current action year is not great and while as compared to the world we are doing alright we are not where we want to be and historically if you’d look at our chart we do 8 – 10 points better than our better competitors and more than 10 points better than the industry as a whole.
So we’ll have to see how that comes out and when do people major players starts to say we can’t live with prices at this level.
But to make that decision you have to be willing to lose business.
And that’s a hard thing for an insurance company executive to say that we are prepared to have our insurance volumes go down and either fire people or have a bad expense ratio.
So it’s that state of mind that the long term pain of more loses is something I just can’t do with and when Rob talked about terms and conditions.
Frequently changing terms and conditions changes how quickly losses get reported.
Because you had coverage’s that allow people to report things that otherwise might not be reported.
So it accelerates the reporting and thus reduces the tail on specialty business.
So that’s the best I can do to tell you that we are bunch of irrational people with a huge marketplace that respond to our emotions more than the economic reality.
Okay I thank you all very much.
There are lots of signs that there are people who are recognizing this issue as they start to see things happening that surprise them.
I would expect our prognostication’s timing is not going to be off much if its off that will be by a little but we still anticipate the fourth quarter people will start to look at those changes and react.
So thank you all very much.
Have a great day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day and welcome to the W.
R.
Berkley Corporation Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
The speakers’ remarks may contain forward-looking statements.
Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words including without limitation “believe ” “expects ” or “estimate.” We caution you that such forward-looking statements should not be regarded as a representation by us that the future plans estimates or expectations contemplated by us will in fact be achieved.
Please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10K for the year ended December 31 2010 and our other filings made with the SEC for a description of the business environment in which we operate and the important factors that may materially affect our results.
W.
R.
Berkley Corporation is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any such obligations to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
William R.
Berkley.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
I was pleased with our quarter and I think that all of our expectations for the turn cycle and for all in operations are coming about.
Certainly things are happening if it's slower than we anticipated and we are pretty excited about where things are going.
I’m going to let Rob talk about our operations firsts and Gene will talk about our finances and I’ll be there talking about overall of the business and where we stand.
So with that Rob please.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Capacity activity during the second quarter following on the heels of the events of the first quarter is certainly the clear reminder of the value that the insurance in which we brings to the society.
Additionally the cat activity over the past six months has provided a strong wake up call to the industry for the need to appropriately price for the infrequent event.
The recent natural disasters have compounded the pressure that the industry has already been facing.
This existing pressures stems from a modest investment income evidence of increasing frequency trend and an overall lack of underwriting discipline that has existed for the past several years.
The greatest level of competition continued to be found in accounts over $100 000.
Additionally excess casualty lines in particular excess workers compensation remains under significant pressure.
These longer tail lines of business are typically slower to turn given the duration of the liability and consequently it takes more time for underwriting missteps to be recognized.
While industry conditions remains challenging and certainly by no means are we in the froze the of a hard market.
There is a growing amount of evidence that would suggest we are in the early stages of hardening market.
Much of these changes coming about as many standard markets in particular National Carriers are actively adjusting their appetite as they feel the pain resulting from over reaching during the past several underwriting years.
The greatest supporting evidence of this change is the return of pricing leverage without the sacrificing of a renewal retention.
Additionally our specialty companies are beginning to see some account they have not seen in years.
Furthermore in certain regions of the country we are observing an increasing population in several assigned risk plans.
Historically this has been an early to get accurate sign of a hardening market.
The modestly improving U.S.
economy is also providing assistance due to fewer insurers going out of business as well as continued strengthening in audit premium.
Net written premium for the quarter was $1.06 billion this represent an increase of 10% over the second quarter of 2010.
While the main drivers of this growth continue to come from our younger operations we are experiencing improving contributions from our more mature companies as the market begins to turn.
The specialty and international segments again led the growth as we continue to benefit from those domestic industries that have not been impacted by the slowdown in the general U.S.
economy.
As well as our presence in the international markets with economies continue to prosper.
The group's price monitoring report for the quarter indicated an improvement over the corresponding period in 2010 of approximately 2%.
Though 2% may not be overly exciting for some this is in fact the second quarter in a row that we have achieved in aggregate [wage] increase.
Additionally this represents more than twice a level of rate increase we achieved in Q1 2011.
Our renewal retentions remains in the 80s consequently providing evidence of pricing leverage rather than adverse selection.
The loss ratio for the quarter was at 66.3 which includes 6.2 points of storm.
The unusually high level of storms contributed an additional $35 million of losses beyond what we would normally anticipate in the second quarter.
The lion’s share of the loss activity was in our regional segment which stem from PCS 46 in Alabama and PCS 48 in Missouri.
Our expense ratio for the period was at 34.8 this result is generally in line with our expectations given the investments we have made in starting new operations as well as where we are in the cycle.
We anticipate a gradual improvement in the goods expense ratio as our earned premium continues to build consequently enabling us to further leverage our existing platform.
All in we delivered a combined ratio of over 101.1 for the second quarter.
While this result is below our goal we believe that it is tolerable in light of the level of catastrophes during the period.
Having said this (inaudible) and adjust for a normal level of cat activity as well as back out our reserve takedowns our current accident year combined ratio remains at approximately 99.
Our balance sheet remains robust and we continue to be convinced that the strength of our aggregate loss reserves are comfortably sufficient to allow us to manage our ways to even an unforeseen event.
Overall there is growing evidence that the moment we have been waiting for is approaching.
There the market does not turn overnight there are ever grown number of signs that we are headed towards an improved environment.
Thank you.
Okay Gene give a numbers a bit please.
Okay.
Thank you.
I’ll start with just a few more details on those catastrophe losses.
As Rob said that second quarter eight quarter catastrophe losses were 63 million or 6.2 loss ration points.
That represents our net loss after reinsurance recoveries and reinstatement premiums and compares with 30 million or 3.1 loss ratio points in the second quarter of 2010.
Losses from the tornado center in Alabama in Missouri were 36 million in the aggregate and losses from 10 smaller but still significant tornadoes and hail storms in the quarter were another 27 million.
We had originally estimated our losses could be 60 million 65 million for April and May however our actual losses turned out to be slightly less than that estimate and fortunately the month of June was relatively benign compared with the first two months of the quarter.
Four of our business segments reported cat losses in the quarter 44 million for regional 9 million for specialty 7 million for reinsurance and 3 million for international.
Partially offsetting the catastrophe losses was favorable reserve development of 35 million of 3.5 loss ratio points in the quarter.
The favorable reserve development was primarily related to the specialty reinsurance at regional segments and emanated from accident year's 2005 to 2009.
Our underlying loss ratio excluding catastrophes and storms was 63.5 points down a half a point from the prior year.
The specialty and international accident year loss ratios before were about 2 points lower due to the combined impact of rate increases and changes in the mix of business and that was partially offset by 1 to 2 point increase than the initial losses for accident year 2011 for the other business segments.
Our second quarter expense ratio was 34.8 that’s up six-tenth of a point from the second quarter of 2010 and three-tenth of a point from the first quarter of this year.
There are two reasons for that; first written premiums were up 10% in the quarter and only a part of the cost related to that increase goes in deferred acquisition cost.
And second we include higher profit commissions for the reinsurance segment as a result of favorable reserve trends.
That gives us a combined ratio including the impact of cat and reserve releases of 101.1 for the quarter compared to 94.4 in last year's second quarter.
Nonetheless our paid loss ratio decreased to 59.6% down from 64% a year ago.
And our net loss reserves increased by 74 million as a result operating cash flow was up 25% to 161 million.
Just one other comment to add to Rob’s remarks on the premium growth and that with respect to the alternative market segment.
You will see that the alternative market segment reported a 22% increase in gross premiums and a 4% increase in net premiums.
We talked about this last quarter that again is due to the increase in premiums on the signed risk plan that we managed for a number of state and that business is a 100% seeded to the respective assigned risk pause with no net retention for us.
Net investment income was a 149 million up 15% from 130 million in the prior year quarter.
The increase was attributable to higher income from investment funds and from merger arbitrage trading income from investment funds was 17 million compared to 1.5 million a year ago due to strong results for both energy and real estate related funds.
And merger arbitrage income was 4 million compared to 1 million a year ago.
The overall annualized yield on the portfolio was 4.4% up 50 basis points from last year's second quarter.
And that represents an annualized yield of 4.1% for the core portfolio 3.9% for the arbitrage account and 13% for investment funds.
We also reported realized gains from the sales investment of 23 million in the quarter.
And at June 30 our unrealized investment gains before tax was 600 million and the average duration of our fixed income portfolio was 3.5 year's down from 3.6 years at the beginning of the quarter.
Finally our net income was 83 million for the quarter which is an annualized return on equity of 9% and after taking into consideration that we purchased 1.1 million shares of our stock of book value was $27.77 at June 30 up 6% from the beginning of the year.
Thank you Gene.
So I’m quite pleased with where things are going.
As I’m sure many of you recall I expected the cycle to start to turn in the fourth quarter of last year in fact pricing didn’t really change until the first quarter of this year.
It's continuing to improve although at a somewhat slower rate.
Part of that slower rate of improvement comes from this slow economic activity and the lack of the robust economic improvement.
We still expect 5% plus rate improvement year-over-year by the fourth quarter.
The one negative is you are also seeing this loss cost development which is certainly gone from where it's been totally benign where you noticed the trend is changing.
It's not that we are seeing exclusive trend but it's now a noticeable trend in the wrong direction.
So if I were to choose a number it might be 2 or 3% at the moment but the signs of that trend cause you to pay attention.
It's one of the things that we try to take into consideration when we are establishing our reserves and looking at the adequacy of them to be sure that we reflect those trends and maintain reserves that assume those things continue.
One thing long-term benefit of being in the industry has gained for our company is that you have to always try and look ahead for these negative things because they always appear when you least expect them.
Our businesses are gaining traction people are thinking about why they buy insurance and who is going to be there people are beginning to recognize expertise is really important people are concerned about financial strength to build people are concerned that you have consistent approach.
And brokers and agents are conscious of the fact that they need a ready market.
And as people start to withdraw here and there they step back and say who is going to be around.
I don’t serve my customer well if I have no one who wants to provide them coverage.
And those thoughts are beginning to enter people’s minds it isn’t a trend.
It's isn’t where everyone is worried.
But there are number of places where people are asking those kinds of questions.
And there are number of people who are still searching for price especially on large risks but as many of you remember we have lost most of our largest a long time ago.
So it doesn’t affect us much but in large risks it's still a very competitive world.
I think that our international business is doing especially well.
We are quite pleased with our ability to seek our opportunities and we continue to think that there will be more opportunities that we will be able to find in that area.
The most difficult part of our business the moment the most competitive has been our facultative business where people just don’t want to pay the appropriate price and we are really pleased that our fact people have been disciplined and we are perfectly happy we provide our expertise but only if we think we can make money.
And some people value that and are prepared to pay a fair price but we can’t offer our expertise in our capital without it and our fact markets have suffered in this market especially and that’s one of the reasons to our reinsurance area volume is down is substantially.
From looking at the rest of the world from our perspective we think that we have got into the hurricane season a tough hurricane season can clearly have a real impact on a lot of people who may not have the ability to buy another reinstatement who may not in fact had the capacity to meet their liabilities.
So we are here we are well positioned we think the world is planning a pretty much as we thought although had a slower pace.
And we are starting to get the traction that we expected.
So with that Jerome I’m happy to take questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Gene one quick question on the development it sounds like there will be about 3.5 points but my math will get that to about 93 on a ex-cat ex-development combined is that right or is there am I doing math wrong?  Are you talking about combined ratio for the quarter? Yes.
Yes about 90.5 exactly.
I was sure it 90.5 okay.
Got it.
Okay thanks.
And then just one question Bill or Rob if I could.
The combined ratio without the benefit of (inaudible) releases and without the cost of catastrophe losses is around [1 million 0.5 million].
And then just one question on international for Bill or Rob.
What type of insurance is driving that growth and is these newer ventures primarily just further coming online and is there an area that we are focused on that you feel is continuing to allow tailwinds to go more? Rob will give you the specifics but I’m going to just talk in the broader sense and part of it is the general economic environment.
So go ahead.
Well I think it is what was just (inaudible) a moment ago it's the economies that we operate in outside of the United States that enjoy the most momentum.
It is predominantly focused around commercial lines.
And if you look at where we do things outside of the United States you look at what economies are prospering you are going to see that.
So whether it be Canada or Brazil or Australia or parts of Asia those are places where we are benefitting from the macro underlying economy and our insurers are doing well and the economies are growing.
So we are able to grow along with them.
Our operations in Europe and specifically the UK as far as they have felt a little bit more of a headwinds with the exception of parts of Europe that they serve such as market like Norway which because of their natural resources continue to boom.
And then of course our (inaudible) to operation is doing well part of that has to do that it's still getting traction because it's relatively young.
And part of that it has to do with the lines of business that it offers.
So is that you are up 15 to 20% of premiums there.
I mean do you feel like that’s the number that you could see grow would you want to see that get 20 to 25 30.
And second real quick is all those risks written outside of the U.S.
on the risks that are also written within subs outside of the U.S.
on the risks that are non-U.S.? Yes they are.
There may be one off that doesn’t but in principal that some of our business that (inaudible) is written by U.S.
businesses but all of the rest is outside of the U.S.
Then I think that I’d expect that our U.S.
which is where we have had many of our new specialty will start to grow.
And therefore while the international business will probably be somewhat of an increasing portion of our business it won’t grow to be as much of increase as you might think because we would expect our domestic business will start to grow a lot more rapidly.
So I wouldn’t surprise if it got to be 20%.
That we sort of have said that we would be really happy if our international business represent a 20% of our overall but I think that in the next couple of years we think our U.S.
business is most likely to grow substantially.
SO our international business is not likely to be a huge increase in its proportion.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Walsh with Citi.
First for Rob in your commentary you mentioned you are getting priced without sacrificing retention I believe in it seems new business is very strong maybe if you can talk about how the hit rate on wholly new business has trended over the last several quarters and then I have got a follow-up.
I didn’t mean to suggest to that new business is particularly strong I was suggesting that our renewal retention is particularly strong even though we are achieving rate.
The growth that we are seeing as they group in 10% that is pretty concentrated amongst certain operating units that I tried to at least to get in with some of our newer companies in the specialty segment as well as outside of the United States.
So I don’t think that newer business or is plentiful across the board.
I think once again it's pretty concentrated.
Okay very helpful.
And then Bill just getting back to loss costs where are these loss costs specifically give me a detail where the comment from in.
And just historical view or higher loss costs consistent with the sluggish economy can you just talk to that a little bit? Thanks.
I think our trend the actuaries that pointed out to us directionally loss costs have turned from what’s been a long-term decline to where they have directionally moved upwards slightly not a lot but definitely a directional change and though they generally don’t in the sluggish economy.
On the other hand where we were having a very good economy they were coming down which isn’t something one would have expected (inaudible).
So I think that lost costs has huge move in ways that we can’t predict at the moment.
It's though different than inflation.
We didn’t have inflation when the economy was doing well mainly because it effectively Chinese low cost production was subsidizing our cost of goods here and at the same time inflation was being eating up by people who are willing to invest in U.S.
securities which may not be (inaudible).
But the fact is that I wasn’t suggesting that I know I was nearly commenting of what the numbers are saying at the moment.
And we are cautious.
I think if you look back at our annual report from the first month now we always have said what you worry about is the unforeseen event.
You look at the numbers and say what may they be telling me that I can’t see out there and I would say we don’t have any worry about inflation.
That is just not happening.
The economy is (inaudible) but that’s the unforeseen event that’s why we are not buying long-term bonds that’s why we are reserving things loans costs trends.
They felt the numbers have turned the corner and start to move in the other direction.
So I wish I could be more specific regard to that I love to see more specifics.
And this not a case of me trying to keep information for competitive reasons I’m telling you everything that I know at the moment.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Grasher with Piper Jaffray.
Just a couple of questions just with regard to the loss costs issue.
Can you share with us in terms of do you believe it's driven more by the duration of claim or is it more of a frequency matter? Our view at this stage is what we are seeing is a tick up in frequency.
What we have had all long particularly in worker’s compensation is you have this medical trend or headwind that we have been finding for a while and it's a social issue a political issue and then industry issue as well.
But really the change that we are noticing most recently would have to do with frequency (inaudible) head in a more clear way and worker’s compensation but we are seeing signs of frequency just in the general causality lines overall ticking up as well but it's really comp that we are seeing in the previous level of activity.
And then if you look at your accident year combined ratio at 99 would you all agree that the industry probably is tracking closer to a 107 to 110 range? I’d actually say the industry is probably higher than that.
If you look at the numbers and the where the industry is in a mix of business I’d say the industry is probably closer to 110 at this point.
And the reason for that is we have lost all our large accounts large accounts are probably doing significantly worse at this point in time.
So I’d think that our spread right now between what we do in the industry is probably at the maximum so historically that would so at 10 points.
When we are assure of doing average industry business we would be served about the same between 5 or 6 point.
Rob would like to add.
One comment that I’d add is that if you look at the commercial lines space and the largest line in commercial lines as worker’s compensation according to NCCI 2010 combined ratio ran at somewhat between 110 and 115 I believe it actually look at 115 combined ratio for the accident year.
So that on its own is the largest commercial line is probably pointing you in a direction that things are running hard.
And then with regard to Workers' Comp in the pricing environment there obviously driven by the states but relative to the class of risk what do you experience there in terms of the change in the pricing dynamics? You mean pricing dynamics today? Yes.
Relative to the class of risk that the worker’s comp the exposure would be to.
Generally speaking we don’t get into the specifics of class of business within a line of business as to what we see going on and we don’t necessarily get (inaudible) telling the specifics as what leap were achieving within classes within a line but what I can tell you is that we were seeing certainly encouraging signs in the primary if you will or comp market as appose to the excess comp market which seems to be a very different circumstance where they doesn’t seem be any noteworthy discipline entering that part.
In the excess comp market people are just making incredibly optimistic statements or assessments as to what they think future interest rate should be used to discount their loss.
So we are having people use 5 and 6% discount rates on establishing loss reserves for excess comp and as appose to the current interest rates on 30 year treasuries.
We think excess comp is still incredibly competitive.
As far as primary comp goes the market does not march in lock step it really depends on the territory if you will how the market is shifting.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Sorry to keep on this loss cost thing and I realize I'm splitting hairs a little bit but if your rate is up 2% and loss costs are up 2 to 3% is it right now at this moment loss costs are exceeding rate or are they about the same? Where are we right now? I think you are trying to be more precise about loss cost than I can be.
And loss costs aren’t something we can measure it especially because the loss cost trends are based on frequency and it's literally one quarter whereas for pricing we have quarter-to-quarter measures with a lot of consistency.
Those numbers have some level of accuracy.
And loss costs as I’ve said is sort of you look at a trend and directional changes what I’m really telling people.
And I’d say that we are gaining a little we are losing little I’m not excited about [pricing because loss costs are actually going the wrong way.
So I’d still say we are net price positive but it's not significant and I’m concerned about loss costs directionally.
But you are asking for precision Josh but I don’t have any yet.
And I’m trying to tell people who follow our company about why we are little more cautious in our reserving why we are little more cautious about how good the pricing is.
That's totally understandable.
Can you give a little detail on the excess worker’s comp market that you already did.
If you listen to a lot of primary layer comp writers they're talking about rate increases and the brokers surveys seem to confirm that.
But obviously one of the primaries is that these loss costs are rising at worker’s comp they took a small charge on it.
What is going on in the excess market and how does pricing compare in the competitive marketplace? The excess markets while the primary comp market and the excess comp market while they maybe to a certain extent showing the same underlying exposure if you will and many cases the same customer base.
The fact of the matter is that the markets do not march in lock step at all.
Clearly there are regions within the United States where the comp market is beginning to turn in our opinion having said that once again it is our view that the excess comp market has yet to show any signs of turning and it remains a very competitive segment to the industry.
Along those lines if people say that primary is up 1% do you have an idea about pricing the excess market the rate move at this point? The answer is that we are seeing many without getting overly specific we are seeing many competitors in the excess comp space operate in a more aggressive way today than they did yesterday.
I think also the customer in the excess comp market are widely varying it's a very long tail line of business.
And there is some modest pretty aggressive well established companies have in there a new people who are wildly aggressive.
So I think it's a very wide range of competitors some who think it looks so attractive please get all the money long time and some who are just making what I define as irrational but judgment as to interest rate returns.
So from our point of view I think prices are just inactive when you compound interest rates at 2 points higher for 17 year's which is the average duration of excess comp.
So a lot money in pricing.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Farnam with KBW.
Talking about the new ventures how much additional momentum should we see from the new ventures? I'm trying to get an idea of how much capacity is being used for the new ventures thus far.
When you mean additional capacity I’m trying to understand what are you trying to answer Bob? You're getting pretty solid growth from the new ventures.
I'm trying to figure out will that continue? Will it grow even more? The answer is I guess we need to define the environment Bob assuming there is no turn in the market even though it is our belief that the market isn’t in the early stages of turning but the purpose of discussion let’s assume that there is no turn in the market.
It is our expectation that you will see some reasonable level of growth certainly for the balance for this year.
Having said that as we get into 2012 if we do not see a turning in the market and we do not add additional new ventures to the group I think well I would not suggest we will plateau or shrink I think it is likely that our growth rate would slow.
Having said that I think our expectation is we are in the process of returning market and we would expect the growth rate to continue well into next year.
I mean I think that critical element here has to with both the economy and the insurance marketplace.
So at this point our fast judgment is growth continues as it is maybe even accelerating.
However it's a lot of uncertainty and there is no question with the economy on edge like it is you can’t feel good about where all that takes us for the moment and therefore we would be stepping in the wrong direction if we continued our expectations unchanged as we feel a bit less certain about economic activity.
Fair enough.
And a question on any change in terms and conditions? I don't know how that terms and conditions have held up over the past couple of years.
Are you seeing them starting to tighten or are they still deteriorating? As far as terms and conditions go the placements that you are seeing them tightening a little bit is just when you see business migrate from the standard marketing with specialty or non-standard market inherently in that transfer ownership that you are going to see (inaudible) we are seeing a bit of that but not an overwhelming on that.
Putting that aside we are not seeing any tightening of terms in any significant way to where it has been recently.
I think by the way I’d add as part of the reason e have been losing business in our specialty business specialty pricing we have most because we haven’t been willing to change our terms and conditions and we lost business because of it.
And so our next question comes from Meyer Shields with Stifel Nicolaus.
I was hoping we could I guess this is for Gene the reserve releases and reinstatement premiums by segment.
It was other leases that e normally don’t talk about that on the call we will have that in our 10-Q.
With regard to the quarterly results did the natural catastrophes you incurred have any impact on acquisition expense? The catastrophes? Right.
In other words basically did the division compensation change because of the outside level of catastrophic losses? No.
One big picture I was hoping to run by Bill is it too early to tell how good this market will ultimately get? You've given your expectations.
The biggest issue that’s sitting out here is the economy as a whole and where we will fade I think that we are going to have every cycle changes gradually until some events take place.
Whether it's 9/11 or Reliance and Frontier going broke.
If we were to have two severe hurricanes you would change this market dramatically because reinsurance capacity would disappear because there are number of people who have no capacity to buy reinstatements who are in the reinsurance business.
They use their one reinstatement towards out there already.
And there is not a market for it.
And therefore that would change the market dramatically.
It's clear that if you look at Katrina a number of reinsurance in fact really went bankrupt but they forgot to tell me buddy and investors put a lot of money in it.
Between the time they decided to help people that were bankrupt and the time they raised the money.
Somehow they forgot.
I think that there is a lot of stuff out there.
And I think that we sit here and wait for the unforeseen events and how that it hurts our competitors and doesn’t hurt us because we hopefully are prepared for it.
And we go forward.
But I think that based on pricing and pricing all you need 15% increases in the average price 20% increases in the average price.
And even then the return on capital in the industry will be probably only 8% after-tax.
That’s based on where I see the combined ratio now for the industry.
Now there are lots of companies they are doing better than that.
And then there are plenty that are doing worse.
So if I were to give you a forecast I’d say that by the end of 2012 we will get 5% this year and we will need 10% more next year.
And then maybe even a little more certainly by the rate changed by the end of next year needs to be higher.
Our next question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
I've got a couple questions.
The first is you mentioned in the Specialty business the accident year loss ratio ex-cats improved by a couple points and I guess I'm assuming that the earned price impact is still either flat or negative and you mentioned claims beginning to go up.
I know the business mix is changing.
Maybe that's a big part of it but if you could explain that.
And the second question I'm wondering Bill if you could comment on the debate now about the debt ceiling and how you see it playing out? First of all I think the comments are pretty straight forward about the specialty lines business.
I mean I think that business is increasing volume is increasing mainly from new businesses.
And pricing is up a little bit.
That’s one of the places where we had some positive impact on pricing.
I guess I just wouldn't expect the earned effect of those price increases at this point to be outpacing your loss costs especially when you say loss costs seem to be increasing maybe it's just too modest at this point.
I think what I was trying to say is loss costs are giving us signs that signs give us concern because they have changed directionally.
And we feel we just have taken the view I should say always.
But certainly through the more than the past 10 years we have taken the view that you don’t better than everybody else by retrospective analysis you do better than everybody else by looking for signs that give you a directional point of view.
SO we got a little bit cautious.
We can always become less cautious if 3 or 6 and 9 months down the road we were too cautious.
For the moment we would rather be a little more cautious.
As to the debt feeling (inaudible) who voted against the raising the debt limit along with every other democrat on a number of occasions is just a little worse than we pointed out that we had 17 votes to increase the debt limit for Ronald Reagan which tells you that Congress only gave Ronald Reagan a little bit at a time but this President (inaudible) little bit at a time.
Look it's a terrible problem we have become so politicized that no one seems to put our nations interest first.
Individually you talked to these people I think Congressmen senators are really extraordinary people who are devoted to our country.
And then they all get together and they are worried more about reelection and it's unfortunate.
I think it's a serious issue optimistic that we will get at least some temporary solution.
It is a philosophic breakdown of the two extremes in our nations and not much from the middle which says get this off no one has thought about the fact that every other nation restricts healthcare costs through restricting funding.
Every other nation restricts their expenditures by controlling how much they spend.
I don’t mind about taxes if they want to raise taxes some of that sign.
But the fact is it has to be irrational taxes and it has to let our country be a competitive force in world which will become (inaudible) unless but right now we need to snap to an act like a single country that’s sophisticated and intelligent and that means we should get together and ask something and have a plan for how we are going to resolve this.
And for a Warren Buffet is a great idea that said if we have deficit more than a certain amount and no one in Congress would be allowed to stand for reelection.
I think that was a wonderful solution.
Our next question comes from Brian Meredith with UBS.
Bill I just want to follow on Jay's question for a second there if the U.S.
credit rating is downgraded from a AAA to a AA+ what would be the implications for the property-casualty insurance industry and also on W.R.
Berkley.
Specifically you do have municipal bonds some probably AAA rated what are your thoughts on that? First of all we have a relatively our duration is not long and we haven’t been tempted to go out and buy yield by going out along or buy yield by getting lower quality securities.
So I don’t think that that’s really going to be a significant issue for U.S.
We have lots of liquidity and it's kept in places that we won’t be restricted from having all of that liquidity.
I think that the issue will be the same severely issue we all face and that is today America and treasury securities are the reserve currency in the world.
And it's an unquestioned issue in all of our securities are priced off of that.
I think it will raise the issue about the quality of (inaudible).
But from a real day-to-day operating point of view since what come in everyday is more than what goes out every day.
It shouldn’t have any consequence and while in the very short run there might be a slight hick up I don’t think it's going be a consequential one.
We There aren’t many AAA securities and I just don’t imagine it would have a very significant impact.
And then for Rob are we seeing any impact at all from RMS 11 on some pricing in the industry yet on the primary side? I think we are certainly seeing it in the reinsurance marketplace and you are seeing it attempts of both to try and push rates on the primary side but it's really not materialistic at this stage in our opinion or certainly not significantly material as far as changing market conditions are rates for property but we will see as the year progresses and rating agencies take more of a position as it relates to RMS 11.
Our next question comes from Scott Frost with Bank of America.
I was wondering if you could go over any exposures to European credits specifically peripheral's.
I saw the foreign government agency exposure but I was curious about your corporate portfolio if you have any credits in the Euro zone that you're worried about? No we were based most of our credits are really what I will tell you managers know we don’t we have done that weren’t concerned about at all.
And most of our non-U.S.
credits are Australia Canada UK and Brazil.
Our next question is a follow-up from Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
If I could one question on you mentioned the facultative market is tight is that on the property cat side or just general facultative? No not tight.
It's very soft.
Soft sorry right.
Yes it's very soft.
And then soft on both left soft on the property side than on the casualty side but casualty side is very soft because the problem is on facultative business you price it independently of the originating price.
So if you charge a rate of 2% than the facultative people think the rate should be 6% they give you 4 to 6% for whatever they are taking which may leave you nothing for your primary business.
So you say I can’t buy I can’t afford to I guess I don’t have paid anything for what I retain.
So that’s the problem.
On the property frequently people get the property quote before they make their primary property quote so they take into consideration.
I see.
So what would have to happen on the property side for you or is there something that could happen on the property side that would cause to you take more property cat risk or is that something that you don't want to do? I think we are prepared to take more property cat risk but not domestic property cast risk.
We think on a global basis we will consider it but we are not going to do it domestically we have plenty of property cat exposure on a primary basis.
So on a reinsurance basis e wouldn’t take it domestically at all.
Our next question comes from Gregory Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
I wanted to just better understand I'm having a hard time modeling the investment funds side of the equation and I know roughly half the portfolio is in real estate and about a quarter is in energy.
What would you do if you were in our shoes to try to get a handle as to modeling that? Obviously it's going to be somewhat lumpy but any help would be appreciated in terms of how you think about it.
I’m sure Greg that Gene will be happy to go through but it's not very easy to marvel over a short-term basis because first of all oil prices are volatile and as to the real estate that is more predictable.
Gene can go through with you we know more real estate to market so that’s a bit more predictable but the energy funds it's a volatile is a market first for oil and energy related things but I’m sure Gene will go through as much detail as you want but it's very hard quarter-to-quarter to build the model.
So I guess Gene should I just follow-up offline then? Yes give in a call offline and he will with as much detail.
I’d be glad to also it's hard to predict but we can go through kind of what we have.
With regards to real estate do you have visibility? Do you sit in the third quarter and have an understanding as to what the fourth quarter is somewhat looking like for that part of the portfolio? To a degree we book these funds on a lag basis the one quarter lag basis so we talked to them all the time but we don’t really have their actual earnings until the subsequent quarter.
Another question just shifting gears a bit.
On the reserving side the reserve releases dropped from the 4 8 and 12-quarter averages.
How does that tie to your loss costs commentary? Did you all change anything in the reserve? We began a bit more cautious until we see how loss costs develop further.
So that is a sustainable the trend which you've called out you've actually reflected in your reserving that resulted in less releases and therefore that's probably the new level that we should be assuming? I wouldn’t say we changed trend I’d say that we have said let’s understand that’s a little better let’s see where that takes.
It’s better in any quarter to be cautious and get your footing and understand the knowledge you have than to continue blindly moving ahead.
So I wouldn’t say that we are just examining everything so I don’t think we have directionally change anything let’s be sure we understand what’s going on does it change it better to be cautious at the moment there is so many uncertainties out there caution is better.
We think we will have a better understating at the end of the next quarter and we may revert back where we were we may stay where we are we may get more cautious.
It's a constant revaluation.
Our job is not to be the same our job is to use our best judgment each quarter.
Next online we have Amit Kumar with Macquarie.
Just one quick question in regards to capital management.
Just what we had a modest buyback and I'm wondering based on where the stock is trading should we expect that going forward or has been any change in the capital management philosophy here? Mr.
Kumar have I ever told anybody what I’m going to do about buying back stock? I want to keep on trying.
The answer is that it's always the balance between what we see our needs for capital and price to stock at any moment and time.
And we will have to make that judgment than we do each day and we are how we see things coming along for the moment of use haven’t changed but they didn’t changed in the first quarter we didn’t buyback.
And next online we have Meyer Shields with Stifel Nicolaus.
Bill or Rob are the early signs of an uptick in workers compensation frequency are you seeing anything like that in medical malpractice? I think the difference medical malpractice is moving incredible profitable line of business more profitable business we would have expected.
And while it's been competitive worker’s compensation never got to the levels of profitability you got from worker’s compensation.
And it was just never as profitable as malpractice.
I think that malpractice business is seeming to be getting a little more stable at the moment but there is not any dramatic increase in pricing outlet.
And the liability property split right now is that about 60/40? No we are still probably I’d have said 75/25 and that’s down from probably (inaudible) 80 plus casualty 3 years ago in about 82 83% casualty 4 years ago.
And today we are probably 75% casualty.
And next online we have Kenneth Billingsley with BGB Securities.
Just a question for Gene.
Looking at the diluted share count for the second quarter it went up from the first quarter despite the little over 1 million share buyback.
Can you just talk about what else is going on in that line? Yes well a lot of that just has to do with the timing of when share transaction take place so we did have some stock exercises and option exercises in the first quarter that took place late in the quarter.
So came through on a full quarterly basis in the second quarter and some of the buy backs I’d drove in the second quarter came in later and didn’t get reflected.
So it's really just more than timing of those transactions.
And sir I’m showing no further questions at this time.
Okay well thank you all very much we are concerned about the economy concerned about Washington but enthusiastic about our business and the position we are in going forward.
So thank you all very much and have a great rest of the summer.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the program you may all disconnect.
Have a great day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day and welcome to W.R.
Berkley Corporation's Third's Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
The speakers' remarks may contain forward-looking statements.
Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words including without limitation believes expects or estimates.
We caution you that such forward-looking statements should not be regarded as a representation by us that the future plans estimates or expectations contemplated by us will in fact be achieved.
Please refer to our annual report on Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31 2010 and our other filings made with the SEC for a description of the business environment in which we operate and the important factors that may materially affect our results.
W.R.
Berkley Corporation is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any such obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would like to turn call over to Mr.
William R.
Berkley.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much Karen.
We had a good quarter.
We were pleased with our results.
It's roughly a year since we told you we expected the market to start to turn and we were going to begin to put pressure on raising prices.
Unfortunately we were early in that process but we in fact went through -- basically starting at year-end we continued that process.
We had now our third successive quarter of increasing prices.
It's been somewhat erratic although generally month after month with some variation at the end of each quarter where our competitors were competing for volume more aggressively where we've been able to deliver those price increases somewhat more slowly than I have expected but not significantly.
We've said that we expect by year end the price increases looking back will be 5% to 8% and I think it will be a little above the bottom of that level but we won't get to that 8% I don't think at the end of the year.
The environment continues to be competitive but nothing approaching where it was a year ago.
So I'll first turnover to report on our operations to Rob and then Gene will talk about the financials and I'll give an overall view.
So Rob? Thank you good morning.
Cash-free activity persisted through the third quarter leaving 2011 a year to be remembered or perhaps for some a year they would like to forget.
Clearly the uptick in frequency of cash [ph] is forcing many industry participants to reexamine how they define their P&amp;Ls.
Additionally the value that geographic spread brings to a property portfolio has become questionable during the number of severe events that have occurred around world over the past several quarters.
Unfortunately the casualty market is not a prettier picture.
Our ongoing expectations that the industry's casualty/accident year loss ratios are on the rise continue to become a growing reality.
Aggressive pricing over the past several years combined with increasing loss trends is proving to be a recipe for significant deterioration in industry results.
Finally the current interest rate environment is having a gradual yet building negative impact on overall returns.
Some of the lines of business that stand out as being amongst the most competitive are in the excess casualty and excess professional liability space.
In particular public company D&amp;O seems to be leading the charge when it comes to irrational pricing.
Unfortunately a common characteristic amongst these lines is the lack of loss frequency as well as a longer period of loss development.
Consequently carriers may be lulled into a temporary yet false sense of comfort with inadequate rates due to the lag in time before their portfolios true loss costs become apparent.
In spite of these challenges that I've mentioned there is a rapidly growing level of evidence that would support we are in the initial stages of a noteworthy change in market conditions.
The commentary we have been hearing in the marketplace regarding the need for action as it relates to both pricing and with selection is finally beginning to converge into a change in behavior.
This shift in behavior is visible to the increasing amounts of business that is being thrown out of the standard market into the specialty market as well as carrier's ability to achieve rate increases without sacrificing renewal retention ratios and continued growth in the assigned risk plan policy count.
While the states of change is not uniform across all territories and product lines it remains clear that this is an increasing trend spreading throughout the industry.
Additional encouragement can be drawn from the growth in auto premium activity which would appear to be stronger today than it has been in several quarters.
This apparent strength in auto premiums is a clear sign that the financial health of our insureds has improved.
The company's net written premium for the quarter was approximately $1.13 billion this represents an increase of 14% over Q3 2010.
The main contributor to this growth as in the past several quarters were our specialty and international segments.
More specifically our operations that serve industries as well as economies that continue to maintain significant momentum.
Furthermore the balance of our operations are in general no longer shrinking and in many cases are finding opportunities for modest growth.
The company's price monitoring showed an improvement in the rate of 3% for the quarter compared to the corresponding period in 2010.
Additionally it's worth mentioning rates were up approximately 3.5% in the month of September.
One should also take note that this is the third quarter in a row where we achieved a growing level of rate increase.
The renewal retention ratio remained at approximately 80% providing evidence that the quality of the book is not eroding as we achieve rate improvement.
The loss ratio for the quarter was at 64.8% which includes 4.8 points of storm.
This level of storm activity is notably above our historic experience and was primarily driven by losses stemming from Hurricane Irene as well as an unusually high level of weather-related activity principally in the Midwest.
Our expense ratio for the third quarter was at 34.3% this represents an improvement of roughly 0.5 points over the second quarter.
We anticipate this trend continuing as our earnings premium build.
To make a long story short the company generated a combined ratio of 99.1% for the third quarter.
Having said this when you adjust for abnormal catastrophes as well as a reserve take down the business continues to run at just under 100%.
The company's balance sheet remains strong on both sides of the ledger.
In particular when it comes to our loss reserves we continue to believe that it is not advisable to presume that future loss trends will remain as benign as they have been over the past several years.
More specifically we tend to be measured with our initial loss picks and recognize this caution as the books develop.
This approach continues to be evident through the results of our quarterly individual operating unit actual analysis leading to 19 quarters in a row of positive group reserve development.
The property and casualty insurance industry continues to be one that seems to have to learn the hard way.
It has become increasingly apparent over the past 2 quarters that painful lesson resulting from irresponsible underwriting has in fact arrived.
It is this bittersweet reality that is driving the apparent change in behavior that we're observing at an ever-increasing pace.
The need for additional rate continues to remain painfully obvious and it's finally beginning to be accepted and acted upon.
Over the past few years the company has remained focused on underwriting discipline as well as investing in existing operations and selectively starting new ones.
As a consequence of this activity our shareholders have patiently endured an increasing expense ratio.
Having said this it has remained our belief that we are on the cusp of receiving a return on this investment.
It is our strong view that the company remains particularly well positioned to disproportionately take advantage of this change in the market.
Thank you.
Gene you want pick up now with the numbers? Okay.
Well thanks.
Well first just back to premiums for a moment the 14% growth in premiums that Rob mentioned that was led by the international segment that international segment is actually up.
Net premiums are up 34% for the quarter that's primarily a result of strong growth in our new Lloyd's operation as well as our Asia-Pacific branch.
And approximately 4 points of the 34% increase for international was due to changes in foreign exchange rates.
The specialty alternative market and regional segments were each up 15% as all of those segments have benefited from ventures that we've formed over the last 5 to 7 years.
And our regional segment where we formed fewer new ventures over that time period was up 2%.
Gross premiums were up 16.5% slightly higher than net premiums and that's again due to the fact that we're seeing a greater portion of the business written by some of our newer companies.
The overall combined ratio was 99.1% up 3.7 points from a year ago and that's primarily a result of the higher catastrophe losses that Rob described.
Catastrophe losses represented 4.8 loss ratio points this year compared to 2.3 loss ratio points a year ago.
Total catastrophe losses were $51 million and that included $32 million for regional segment $6.5 million each for the specialty and region -- reinsurance segment $5 million for international and $1 million for alternative markets.
We had favorable reserve development of $56 million in the quarter and that compares with $51 million in last year's third quarter.
The impact was 5.3 loss ratio points in both periods.
All 5 of our business segments reported favorable development in the third quarter of this year with a majority attributable to the specialty segment.
The underlying loss ratio before cats in reserve releases was 65.2% that's up just 0.4 from a year ago as price increases and changes in business mix has basically offset any changes in loss costs.
That gives us an overall combined ratio of 99.1% and an accident year combined before cats of 99.5%.
Our quarterly pay loss ratio was 61.5% unchanged from a year ago and our operating cash flow was up 32% to $269 million.
As you probably heard by now the FASB has issued new guidance on deferred acquisition costs and we plan to adopt those new rules on January 1 2012.
We do not expect the new guidance to have a material or significant impact on either our expenses or our operating earnings in 2012.
However the initial adoption of this new standard will result in a reduction of the deferred acquisition asset on our balance sheet and a corresponding decline in book value.
We've estimated that the adjustment to book value will be less than $0.30 per share.
Net investment income was $114 million in the quarter that's down 4% from $119 million a year ago.
And investment income for the fixed maturity portfolio including invested cash was $123 million unchanged from a year ago.
And the annualized yield for the fixed income portfolio was also unchanged even though our average duration remained at 3.5 years.
So far we've been able to maintain the yield on the fixed income portfolio in part because the decline in treasury yields has been somewhat offset by wider spreads for non-treasury products.
And secondly we've been able to invest a slightly higher portion of our cash flow in both corporate and agency mortgage-backed securities.
With respect to merger arbitrage our in-house account broke even in the third quarter and our externally managed account reported a loss of $3 million.
That compares with arbitrage earnings of $14 million for both accounts in the third quarter of 2010.
Also investment funds reported a loss of $8 million in the quarter that compares with a loss of $19 million a year ago.
Within that energy-related funds which are carried at fair value reported a loss of $12 million while real-estate and other funds reported earnings of $4 million.
The energy fund losses reflect primarily the impact of lower oil prices on companies for which the fair value estimates are closely related to the price of oil.
Realized gains from the sale of investments were $21 million in the quarter and our unrealized investment gains before tax were $632 million at September 30.
We repurchased 4 million shares of our own stock in the third quarter and that brings us to a total of 5.1 million shares so far in 2011.
And finally that gives us an annualized return on equity of 8.4% in the quarter and 10% for the first 9 months of 2011.
Thanks Gene.
So we're pretty pleased that prices continue to move upward.
Opportunities in our market are increasing as standard markets push aside some of the business.
All is not perfect some areas of the business such as worker's comp have double-digit price increases other areas are still seeing virtually no increase.
But overall there's no question the market turn is definitive it's here.
Almost all our lines of business are having those price increases.
Terms and conditions are getting a bit better here and there and the opportunities in the specialty areas are beginning to increase.
We're pleased by all that the rate of our growth is mainly being shown as our new entrants or they're not so new anymore have gained traction and are adding to our bottom line.
We continue to have several companies that we've added in the past year in the technology area reinsurance enterprise that will start up in the U.K.
and we continue to work towards broadening our horizon in areas of the business that offer the opportunity for us to achieve our 15% plus return.
We think we still can attain that and while treasury yields have come down dramatically the spreads on mortgage-backed securities and corporates have gotten wider and thus investment returns have gone down a bit but not nearly so much as it would look when you examine treasury yields first.
I think we disagree with several of our competitors who elected to lower the quality of their portfolio in order to gain yield.
We don't think that the world is as wonderful as it might be and while we believe the economy is going to get stronger and we're optimistic we today as always have felt we take our risk in the Insurance business not on our portfolio and therefore we've maintained the quality of our fixed income of securities not going down in quality maintaining that AA average portfolio rating.
Giving up on occasion as I've said before some of that liquidity and we've been able to maintain our yield.
Although clearly if business gets a lot better and cash flows increase we will give up something on that yield.
It wouldn't surprise me if our new investment yields were down 5% or 8% over the next 12 months if we had substantially more cash flows.
We're pretty happy with what we've been able to do and what we've seen and because we weren't a corporate investor in a significant way or a real estate investor in a significant way we have lots of room in the portfolio.
But we are still maintaining basically the same duration and the same portfolio quality as we had before and we've been able to do that and still keep the yield virtually unchanged.
Business still is gaining traction and our -- especially in our new units or newer units and we're pleased.
It's looking like the cyclical turn is getting stronger and we're optimistic.
So with that Karen we'd be happy to answer questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Amit Kumar from Macquarie.
Just going back to your comments on the cycle turn.
There is this debate are market conditions currently similar to Q2 of 2000 when we had Unicover and several other issues which resulted in modest pricing improvement over several quarters.
I was curious what you thought were the similarities and sort of the dissimilarities versus Q2 of 2000.
Well first of all the market really had very little turn until October of 2000 when Reliance and Frontier went out of business.
And when Reliance and Frontier went out of business Unicover was a prelude [ph] to Reliance and Frontier going out of business and a lot of other things happening.
Every cycle has its own qualities.
Today it's so different than any cycle we've had before because of the financial debacle that we've seen in the prior several years and the extraordinary volatility in markets there was no place to hide.
People who had aggressive investment portfolios had -- some had severe problems although not so much in the property casualty business.
The opportunities to invest your money became challenging.
I think that this is a bit different than the 2000 cycle.
I would say that if you look at pricing standard line pricing is down between 15% and 18% from peak.
Especially in line price it's probably down 25%.
That said pricing at its peak gave us great returns and great underwriting results.
But along with that with investment returns down significantly over all you're looking at an industry that's probably not making money.
So I think the driver of pricing and cyclical turn is always the same and that is the fear of a total loss of profitability.
And sometimes it's individual events that bring about that fear sometimes it's an examination of trends.
And I think right now what it is is it's the loss of redundancies in people's reserves.
We're beginning to see recent year deficiencies develop and I think you've seen a few companies report deficiencies in their current year and I would guess that you're going to start to see a number of other companies in the past couple of years on their reserve positions were established at deficient level and they're going to have to start to recognize those deficiencies.
And between that situation which means they've got a problem with their pricing in a significant way and lower investment income I think you're going to find a number of companies especially those companies that claimed they were focused on these great information technology-driven bases are going to find that their past data wasn't as accurate as they thought.
And one of the things that happened and always is a keystone of a change in cycle is the data you relied upon didn't prove to be accurate.
And in this case the data of the reserve levels you put up for the current action of the year I think is going to prove to be deficient.
So I think for example the current action here for the industry is probably 110 and worse for worker's compensation.
And I think few people are putting up anything like those numbers.
And I think that there's a lot to come.
So no I think the cycle turn is different but I think for those companies who've adequately reserved the opportunities are going to be fabulous.
That's very helpful.
And then just related to that on competition.
You mentioned this competition aggressive competition on excess casualty and liability for quite some time.
I'm curious is it like a specific set of companies? And has the trend line -- is the trend line still downwards on that or do you see an inflection point approaching in terms of that reversal of that competition? I'm going to let Rob talk about it first because I need to be restrained and not throw stones at anybody.
So I'm going to let Rob talk first and I'll probably add some things.
My lawyer is shaking his head telling me that was very good.
So Rob go ahead.
Yes.
The answer is and I fear this may not be particularly helpful but it really depends on the part of the excess casualty space or excess professional space.
Generally speaking there are parts of those marketplaces that are as competitive today as they were 12 months ago.
Some of that has been created by participants in those markets that are not particularly knowledgeable on the subject matter and it hasn't occurred to them the problems that they are creating for themselves.
Others have withdrawn from those lines of business but it seems as others -- as some withdraw others turn up and try their hand at it.
So we are not seeing the shift there that we were seeing in other areas.
Once again partly having to do with the lack of frequency in some cases and partly having to do with the length of detail.
Having said this it is our expectation that over the next couple of quarters you're going to start to see the level of anxiety start to increase with many that have jumped in without looking to see if there's any water in the pool.
I guess I would add a little bit and say that I think that the true groups that are the most aggressive competitors the small companies that won't be around to make up for their mistakes.
And they're there and very very aggressive.
And their strategy is don't worry about interest rates they'll average back at 5% or 6% then you can discount them based on those numbers and you're going to hold the reserves a long time.
And they're aggressive pricers and those people will be out of business.
And then there are the big companies who use outdated statistical information.
But ultimately you need to make a profit and we think much of this pricing is right about to change.
It's always the last part of the business to change and then it changes at a very rapid rate and it's the last part because you don't see those losses for a while.
And our next question comes from the line of Vinay Misquith of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> On the new business.
Just curious as to what ROEs you're getting on the new business.
You've grown your top line quite significantly.
And do you think that the pace of the growth this quarter is sustainable? Well first of all we know we have carefully said we can't say it's new business anymore because some of this business has been here for a while.
If you look at the company all but 3 of the units have been here since 2009 and we can't say it's new anymore.
That business is -- represents a large part of our business for this year.
It's more than 10% of our business and it's going to grow a lot more.
These people were patient and sitting by the side and we would expect if anything that will represent an accelerating portion of our business and of our growth.
Some of these teams of people who joined us wrote $300 million $400 million $500 million of business before they joined us.
And given pricing levels we're happy to write $40 million of business in the first -- each of the first few years they were with us.
We would expect those teams of people will write a lot more business as opportunities present themselves.
So I think that that's going to be a real generator of -- it's a very substantial amount of growth.
And we have 3 units that we started 1 in 2010 and 2 in 2011 and the 2 in 2011 contributed 0 premium and we would expect that will be different in 2012.
And the one in 2010 really is just beginning to get any traction at all.
Research Division</strong> So what sort of ROEs do you think that you're getting on this business? Because the argument we hear from the other side is that prices are going up but with rates down that the ROEs are still high-single digits.
We would not enter into any business where we didn't think very comfortably we could get a 15% plus return.
And in the good parts of the cycle which we think we're entering now 15% plus means the plus side of that substantially.
So our expectation is that's where we'll be.
I would tell you that -- I'll give you a better assessment of that next year and we'll probably be able to give you our view.
But I would be more than disappointed if we weren't able to deliver those kinds of ROEs starting -- beginning the second half of next year on companies that have been running for a period of time.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
The -- just to follow up.
When do you think we'll be able to see margin improvement from rate increases? I'm sorry could you repeat your question? Research Division</strong> You are right now getting rate increases of 3%.
You said you're hopeful to get rate increases of around 5% by the end of the year.
When do you think that margins will expand? Because pricing is rising in excess of loss cost trends.
Well for instance in September pricing increases averaged 3.5%.
We expect prices are going to continue to rise and I would expect that that will continue.
I would think that debt margins will continue to improve really every month frankly as that continues.
Research Division</strong> So what are loss cost trends right now? I mean are they in the 3% range? Or 3% to 5% range right now? This is Rob.
As far as loss cost trends go it really depends on the product line that we're talking about.
Obviously certain product lines are more slow.
It slows to variables and that may be experiencing larger amounts of inflation or trends these days.
And generally speaking historically unless there's going to be a change that I'm advised of we don't get into what our trends are that we're using or assuming by line of business.
I think the biggest issue with loss cost is the mix of medical cost involved.
And medical cost is the real question.
And it's a real unknown at this point you've got the government trying to shove medical cost inflation everyplace except there and simultaneously you've got lots of pressure on the entire medical provider segment of this global business trying to deal with that.
So I think that's the big unknown.
And our next question comes from the line of Vincent DeAugustino of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess for Rob or Gene.
Looking at the expense ratio we've talked about the expectation for that to improve as the newer start ups gain scale.
And if we just assume that there's no additional start ups at full scale what ballpark range would you ideally like to see the expense ratio at? And then if there's any sense of how long it would take to get there with the current structure.
And then I just have one follow-up.
Let me just comment one thing and that is you have to remember that the expense ratio follows earned premium not written premium.
And second of all our view has always been the same and that is this isn't an expense ratio business this is a loss ratio business.
And we're not -- we view as -- when you take out commissions and you take out taxes license and fees expenses are sort of 10 points or less.
And when you look at that 10 points or less on an earned basis you'd expect that savings there just aren't going to move the needle much.
But our expense ratio was comfortably below 30 points -- our part of the market in the last cycle.
So we would anticipate better growth.
We would anticipate an expense ratio with that same area.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one kind of follow-up.
Let's say the low interest rate environment continues out to 2014 2015.
Maybe not as low as today but let's just say less than optimum.
Would you envision any structural change to the portfolio allocations? Not sure if high-dividend yielding equities start to look a little more attractive.
I know you said that at least in the current environment you're not looking to change but if that environment sustained longer...
Well we've in fact invested some money relatively modest amount in high-dividend equities.
Probably $300 million or $400 million.
And it's certainly something we would consider.
I think that every day in this volatile world you make decisions on where you think you're going to go and what you're going to do and try to assess the riskiness of those decisions and the capacity to adjust.
So finding ways to give you flexibility financial security and adjustment is important.
But we're looking at every kind of option from high-dividend equities to various kinds of direct lending.
And our next question comes from the line of Josh Shanker of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> You made comments and I don't want you to repeat because it's a repeat of a question you can just go to the next one but you were talking about the competitive landscape.
And I'm looking a lot of companies reporting including yourself whose premiums are ahead of auto premium and price increases.
I'm wondering who's losing premiums in this market.
Not by it specifically but by class maybe.
I think there's a few things going on.
I think first of all you're seeing some people just withdraw from the marketplace who are getting out of the business who are electing not to participate.
So you're seeing some of that.
And in bits and pieces everywhere in areas of the specialty business you're seeing people who as Rob commented are just finding the business wasn't as profitable as they thought.
And then you're finding those opportunities are there.
You're finding some people in the standard markets who are getting out of certain areas.
So I mean I think it's across the board.
And I think that clearly if you'd look at the total amount of business of our growth the substantial amount of it the growth Josh has been overseas.
I think a big part has been our Lloyd's syndicate in Australia and Southeast Asia and it's this relatively modest amount.
Our domestic business has grown but it's not a huge number.
And so I don't think it's anything dramatic at the moment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other question in that.
I'm just following up on your comments that you said that you thought the newer businesses would be 15% ROE businesses but much higher when the market would turn for them.
Is the legacy business not performing as well as those newer businesses? No I don't think that.
I think the legacy businesses were much higher return businesses than 15% when the market got hard.
And then what I'm suggesting to you is that the businesses we got in we have the expectations that they will do as well as the legacy business.
Research Division</strong> Do you think right now the ROE of the legacy business or the newer businesses is higher? We don't -- every business we got in we think has met expectation.
I mean when we get into a new business we talk to teams of people we sit and look and examine the industry they're in the lines of business they want to write and examine what we know about it and what we think the returns will be in various phases of the cycle.
And our expectation is we don't want to do things that we think will dilute our overall return.
Now it'll dilute our return when the businesses are entered because obviously you have to build up the scale.
In a soft cycle it takes time to build up the scale more time than it would in a hard cycle.
And in a hard cycle you can get up to scale in 18 months or 2.5 years maybe.
And in a soft cycle it could take you 4 years.
But once you get up to that scale you start to end up doing the same kinds of returns as the legacy business.
Now obviously something may change and one might do better and one worse but basically we think they'll both do the same.
Research Division</strong> And the extent to which excess capital is dampening returns right now? We were pretty aggressive in buying back stock.
And clearly we have some excess capital.
But if we continue to grow at the pace we're growing and I'd be surprised if we at least don't continue to grow at a relatively rapid pace.
We won't have that much excess capital.
We'll be able to generate enough capital to maintain good ratios but we won't have a huge amount of excess capital.
I think we have probably $500 million of excess capital now and if the opportunity came to buy stock back at an attractive price or to make an acquisition at an attractive price risk adjusted that's fine.
But we don't think we have -- we don't think we're going to have huge amounts of additional redundant capital.
We have enough now to put us in a position to take advantage of any opportunity.
And our next question comes from the line of Mike Grasher of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Rob you had some comments about growth in auto premium activity.
And just curious what about exposure units? And then I guess how about exposures overall whether it's the higher utilization rating commercial auto or payrolls and comp.
Are you experiencing improvements anywhere in terms of exposures? The answer is yes.
We are seeing that in many of our insurers whether it be worker's compensation and payrolls are on the rise in part because of people adding positions or adding to staff.
We also are seeing people who are adding power units to their schedules as far as commercial auto.
And then generally speaking much of our activity that is based off of receipts we are seeing that either the initial estimate was overly conservative or things are working out better than had originally been anticipated.
It is a better situation than what was expected as far as exposure.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any areas I guess accelerating? I think nothing that would really jump out.
We are seeing it's certainly quite apparent in worker's compensation but we are seeing it in some other areas as well but comp would probably be the one area that we've taken the greatest note of.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with regard to comp big picture here.
Is there a mix change I guess with clients where maybe excess comp demand goes higher as changes occur on the primary side be it price or any reforms that are occurring on the state level? Look it's certainly possible as primary comp rates go up people become more interested in alternative markets solutions and by extension they may be exploring the excess comp market to provide some cover above whatever their retention is if you will.
But at this stage we have not seen that movement.
Quite frankly worker's compensation for the average person walking down the street is a pretty good deal.
It's going to be a less good deal tomorrow but I don't think that reality has really come through yet driving that change in behavior in that exploration into alternative solutions.
And we also should add that excess comp is getting to be a little more expensive than -- it's one of those lines that relies on discounting.
And the interest rates people are using to discount have come down a lot.
So therefore the pricing for excess comp has gone up and probably ought to go up a lot more.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then is there a preference from your standpoint just in terms of which direction you would take that business on or prefer to take that business on? I'm not sure...
Research Division</strong> Between the excess comp and the primary.
We want to take it on wherever we're going to get the best margins.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a question.
You mentioned at the business level that overall are rate increases outpacing loss trend? I mean do you feel like you're seeing that in your aggregate book? I would say that at the moment they are just now slightly higher than loss trends.
And I think that directionally that they're accelerating in loss trends are not accelerating at the moment although they've been up significantly from where they were let's just say a couple of years ago.
But understand that the volatility that you all see in the marketplace and you see in the economy and change that.
We don't know a lot about what's going on as far as the government's policies on medical costs and so forth and that's the big thing that we worry about.
But in addition you've got lots of variability in the whole economic picture.
Today lost costs are not quite as rapidly increasing as pricing and pricing seems to be increasing at a faster rate.
But it's not our primarily worry right now.
We're okay with that but clearly everything about the economic picture is more variable today than it's been in the past.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one question on small versus large accounts.
Can you talk about where the competition is more severe? You talked about small versus large insurers.
But on the accounts themselves can you talk about how the landscape is different among those 2 groups? Mike it's Rob here.
The trends continue as it has been for probably the past couple of years now that there continues to be far greater competition around large accounts versus small accounts.
Presumably in part that is because people's anxieties -- some market participants are making sure they hit their budget then they start doing things like providing large account discounts which quite frankly never made a whole lot of sense to us.
But yes the greater competition does continue around the larger accounts.
The breaking point had been sort of around $100 000.
I would suggest that it slide down to $75 000 or so maybe even close to $50 000.
But one thing is even starting to see a few large accounts would be a big change.
So that hasn't happened yet but when it does that would be a really big change because that really means that people are saying volume is not as important as it was.
So it's one of the things we watch for carefully.
Research Division</strong> Great.
If I could one last one.
And this is just more like a -- kind of a -- in the business question.
So if your business is not very cat exposed overall like relative to the market and insureds have decent loss experience the policyholders themselves.
What is the conversation like when you are looking to raise rates 3% or 5% to them? Like how -- you're accounting for loss trend or low interest rates how does that result in and them accepting a higher premium? Well I think for starters not many folks look forward to the opportunity to pay more for anything.
Having said that we do try and encourage people to take a look back and think about where their rates are today and what we're asking for compared to what they were a few years ago.
And the reality is that we've been losing ground for some period of time and at this stage we need to capture some rate in order to have an organization that can make a reasonable return.
And we're not embarrassed about representing to our partners on the distribution side as well as our insureds that we're in business to make a return and that is our expectation and if that means we need to raise our rates we will do so.
So while it's not received with open arms I think generally speaking people understand that we are entitled to get some rates particularly given what has happened with the rates over the past several years.
I think that honestly Michael the discussion about rate is a minimal discussion when it's 3% to 5%.
I think when the discussion starts to get up to 10% it changes the tone and the nature of the discussion.
Because in fact most everybody you talk to have seen price come down substantially as Rob pointed out and in addition to that they recognize the fact that interest rates are down everything else is down all of which is how we make money.
So I think it's a reasonable and okay discussion.
I think that the discussion will not be as easy if you're pushing for a lot higher rate but in fact on the lines where you're pushing for a lot higher rate in general you can show them that people are losing money.
Here are the industry numbers.
And our next question comes from the line of Gregory Locraft of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> If I could just pursue the I guess the pace of change in terms of this particular cycle term.
You mentioned the 15th ROE beginning I guess back half of next year and if I look back at '00 to '02 '03 it actually -- the ROE didn't go above 15 until 2003.
So I'm wondering what in particular is making this rate of change in the market bigger than in the previous cycle term? Greg it's Rob here.
I think first of all it would be -- we were sharing with you our expectations but it's not a perfect science.
So trying to hang one hat on any 90-day period for such a significant change I think would suggest that there's a greater level of precision than really exists.
That is our best estimate.
Second of all I think if you go back and you look at the period that you were referencing much of the lag that we saved in achieving the type of returns that were mentioned earlier had to do with some negative reserve development that we had encountered from prior years.
So if you back the reserve development out my suspicion is while I don't have the specific numbers in front of me that is going to get you into the neighborhood that was being suggested earlier.
Saved me from talking Greg.
Because I was still in charge when we had those negative developments.
And our next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify that last commentary.
I saw when you were talking before when you threw out that 15% ROE that's what I -- I thought you were talking about kind of the pricing on some of these newer ventures what you hope to achieve.
So on a reported basis with the earned premium effect it seems a lot less likely you'd see an actual reported 15% ROE into 2012 anytime.
We were talking -- the question that was asked that I had answered that question about was when did I expect on an underwriting year these companies to achieve that and I answered starting in the second half of next year which wouldn't be reported for the 12-month period.
So that wouldn't be reported if you will -- June 30 2013 it would be achieved by then.
But I think that the point Rob made is true and that is the moment -- I can't tell you whether you're going to get price increases of 5% 6% 7% or 8% in the second of fourth quarter of this year.
I can't tell you what you're going to get next year.
I can tell you directionally where things are going.
I can tell you that my anticipation next year is that you're going to get another 8% to 10% price increases next year maybe even a little more.
And that's how things look.
And you will get better returns by a substantial amount because the marginal increase in pricing.
But we're also talking about the newer companies I think the older companies that have been around for a while aren't going to start to gain more traction also as time goes by.
So I would anticipate us being able to do better.
But yes you are correct.
I was trying to answer Mr.
Locraft's question as he presented it and not get into an "I said this" or whatever.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
I just want to make sure I understood where you were coming from so that's helpful.
Just a question on 2 segments where the growth rate accelerated quite a bit.
One was reinsurance which looked like maybe it was an easy comp there.
And the other one was alternative markets which can jump around a lot.
I was already wondering what's going on in both of those segments.
Yes.
I think that in fact when you -- the growth in the pieces of the reinsurance part which grew by $16 million.
Again a fairly small dollar amount which was basically our premium business just expanded.
And also some of it was our participation in the Lloyd's syndicate and that accounted for it.
The alternative market business growth...
That really had to do 2 things.
One the pools that we participate in where the premium just flows in and flows back out and then the other area has to do with accident and health businesses particularly medical stop loss.
It's where we have continued to experience a meaningful amount of growth.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Just on the Reinsurance business because I see a year ago premiums were down about 20% and I remember there being something that negatively affected that business? Is...
That was one particular transaction where there was some return premium.
That was just an unusual thing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in other words going forward is a 15% number a reasonable number to think about or is that a bit inflated because of that comparison? I think the comparison was a bit inflated number one and number two more than an insignificant part came from our participation in the Lloyd's syndicate.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Second question.
On the capital front certainly on a premium-to-surplus ratio you look really well-capitalized.
From a debt-to-capital standpoint I guess you're bumping up just over 30%.
Is there a range or a limit that you think about when it comes to leverage? We've told the rating agencies that we'll stay within 25% to 35%.
We ought to be based on what we said sort of at the higher-end of that range now.
We're not at the higher end we're right at the midpoint.
We have short-term flexibility there.
A great opportunity here we have plenty of borrowing power as long as we demonstrated to the rating agencies that would come down.
And we told them that that range has been the range we put forth to them for an extended period of time which is that 25% to 35% range.
So I think we have capacity we certainly have plenty of people who would be willing to lend us money.
But as we look at the world today we have plenty of capacity to expand.
We were opportunistic in buying back stock because we view the cycle each quarter as being more definitive and our stock traded down in the quarter.
So we took advantage of it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then last question in the investment fund I know that's reported at least many of them on a one-quarter lag.
At this point do you have any visibility into the fourth quarter number? Only for 2 funds.
There are only 2 funds that report one of which is okay and one of which is negative.
But it's -- one of the parts which we knew when we changed how we reported is especially in the oil and gas fund we invested in a group that did venture-type investing not quite development investing.
And once those investments proved out then they went -- the companies that we invested in became public companies.
And when those public company stocks go up and down the volatility in the marketplace with oil and gas prices changing we reflect those unrealized gains and losses through our income statement.
If we owned the same stocks just as investments they would just be changes in our unrealized gains and losses in the portfolio.
So that's really the problem we're facing but we knew it when we said look it didn't make sense not having these funds as part of our income statement.
So it gives us a little more volatility in that area and unfortunately that one fund accounts for a big part of the losses in the funds.
In fact I think it accounts for more than all the losses.
It's more than 100% of the loss of the funds.
And all it is is 2 successful investments that became public companies but as oil prices go up and down their stocks went up and down a lot.
And I might add it's back up again but that will be in the first quarter.
And our next question comes from the line of Adrian Mele [ph] of Eagle Capital.
Two quick questions.
First question do you have any opinion on if we're in a lower return world if this cycle would considerably look like past cycles or if you'd see a lot of capital coming in? If we're in a world where banks can't earn reasonable ROEs will capital switch over to insurance or should it look like other cycles? I would be surprised if it looked differently.
I think the people who put money in after Katrina have not had a good experience.
And a number of companies out there are not doing well and they're going to show bad results.
So I think it's going to look with the historic returns we've seen before and in fact I think more and more people who want to put their capital in the business want to put it in in ways that keep them from being locked up so they want to have it in special-purpose vehicles.
So I think less real capital is going to go in the industry.
So if anything primary writers like we are ought to have a better opportunity.
Okay great.
And then if we look at the way you've marked your business in the last year in the new units and we compare it to the last cycle I think you wrote ROEs in the high 20s in the peak of the last cycle.
Would you -- you're bigger now in terms of your divisions.
Would you expect given your business mix if the last cycle repeated itself would the ROE approach at the same levels be higher or lower given your current business mix? You just want to let Rob talk because the reason they weren't higher -- the reason they weren't higher last time is because we had some reserve deficiencies we had to make up at the beginning of the last turn in the cycle.
And we are unfortunately not in the position now.
So I would guess that we'd have a faster acceleration of our returns and our peak returns probably would not be nearly so long in the coming.
But I don't think it would be much different.
And our next question comes from the line of Brian Meredith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones here for you.
The first one Rob I think in the beginning you talked about some tightening in terms and conditions.
I'm just curious if you can elaborate on that and do you expect much tightening in terms and conditions in this firming marketplace we're in similar to what we saw in the last cycle turn? Actually maybe -- I don't think I can comment on terms and conditions but I'm glad you brought it up that was a good point.
Just by business migrating out of the standard market into the specialty market that on its own is going to be tightening up terms and conditions on the exposures that go from one part of the marketplace to the other.
Certainly it is our expectation that you will see policy wordings getting tightened up coverages getting tightened up attachments points being adjusted deductibles et cetera.
So the short answer is yes.
We are beginning to see the early signs of that once again as business migrates from standard to non-standard market and we expect we will see more.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And that's actually I guess helped looking forward with any kind of the loss cost inflation if it does kick up.
I beg your pardon? Research Division</strong> I guess that should help offset any loss cost inflation if we get anything kind of going forward.
Certainly it is very helpful to the rate you're getting for the unit of exposure.
And our next question comes from the line of Bob Farnam of Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> So is there anything that you worry about that could potentially derail the market turn? Bob you've known me a long time.
Every day I worry all the time about all kinds of things.
I think that the greatest fear you have is people who believe their numbers in a way that leads them to wrong conclusions.
And it doesn't require someone with an infinite amount of capital to derail a line of business or a group of agents.
So Reliance and Frontier weren't huge companies but they certainly had a huge impact on long-haul trucking.
And frankly a lot of companies who are relying on automated underwriting systems and have tried to remove people are going to not make quick enough decisions when trends change because trends take time to get into automated underwriting systems.
And that will slow down in some cases those companies responses hopefully management in those enterprises sort of override the system and say hey that doesn't count.
But I think that most serious managers in the business know prices have to go up.
And they're being driven by poor results and they look at their reserve development and say we may have had past years with redundancies we no longer do.
And if anything it looks like you don't have to admit to yourself that it is but it looks like there's some current year deficiencies.
And as long as people face those realities for most companies it's within their realm to solve their problems.
And I think that that's the situation.
But you're always going to have a company or 2 that deceive themselves that it can slow the change but I think that that's why we haven't had the change in a more rapid pace now.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So it's certainly nothing that's going to be derailing it it may just be delaying it longer than you think.
Yes.
And I would be surprised frankly if in fact -- I think we may be a little too pessimistic as opposed to too optimistic.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Sorry just a couple follow-ups if I could.
Bill one thing I just wanted to follow up with is your question on the 5% to 8% decline in yields if you continue to grow.
I was just trying to understand is that kind of a percentage of the current yield in the book or...
Yes.
In other words our 4% Michael will go down by 0.2% at 3.8%.
Research Division</strong> Oh so like 20 basis.
Got it.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And then just when you look at kind of what other folks have said during these conference calls have been positive comments here about commercial rates in the U.S.
Just wondering why the regional -- your regional segment hasn't seen some of that or maybe it has and it's just a mix issue if you could comment on that.
My understanding is that others have been commenting on their pricing as it relates to business insurance and when you look at that portfolio and you compare it to our portfolio of risks it would be probably similar to our regional group in particular.
And the regional group has been achieving rates that are above the blended rate for our group overall.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So -- but not seeing exposure growth I guess is that the offset? When I talk rate I'm talking about number of dollars we create for an apples-to-apples unit of exposure and as the premium count is not going through but to make a long story short to give you a number it was slightly over 5% for our regional group in the quarter with the rate increase and that's [indiscernible] if you will.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So does that mean that exposure units were down? Yes.
Modestly.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Got it.
And then Bill if you were looking at the environment now you're talking about like 5-ish percent now and kind of growing to maybe double digits next year what would you place of the odds of just a period of 5% growth in rate? I mean is that -- instead of seeing momentum take it up higher to 10% is that something that can happen that you think is possible or do you feel like it's just a matter of time before rates have to continue to move higher? I think the answer is when you look at just comp for instance to get the line to where it's breakeven including investment income today you need another -- that line of business is having a rough something slightly more than 10% increase right now and you probably need another 8% in addition another 8% to 10% next year.
Just to get the line of business to be a breakeven because you got to remember comp has a lot of inflation with medical costs and loss costs.
So I think you've got something.
Other lines of business to get to where they're profitable industry wide you need those kinds of additional price increases.
So I think that -- I'd be shocked if it stayed at just 5%.
Now if it was 5% more on top of the 5% possible.
But I would think it's going to be 8% to 10% more on top of the 5%.
But we'd have to look.
And our next question comes from the line of Keith Walsh of Citi.
Research Division</strong> For Bill in one of the last -- prior questions I should say you alluded to the marginal increase in returns from higher rates.
Maybe if you could just embellish on that a little bit talking about marginal returns on what relative to ROE in combined ratio from increasing rates.
Well I think the reality is it's rate increase minus loss cost minus expenses.
So I mean I think that if you say for simplistic sake your expenses are going to go up by 3% that's insignificant that's 0.3% on your rate base.
Loss costs go up by 3%.
Anything you raise your prices more than let's say between 2.5% and 3% I'm going to give you additional margin.
So if you get 5% you're going to add let's just say 2 points to your margin.
If it can go up to 8% you're going to add in round numbers 5 points to your margins.
So I think the question Mike asked which was a real critical one which is everything you get over 3% is going to be a real improvement in your combined ratio or industry-wide a diminishment of your losses.
So I think that that's a -- it's a really critical question Keith.
And I think that's why it's so sensitive as to how well you can get prices up.
And I don't think that that is the heart.
I think there's a difference between September's 3.5% and the average for the quarter of 3% tells you directionally what's going on and it was the same as we in fact directionally things are getting better and I think that it's why I'm really incredibly optimistic about where things go because that marginal trend is the critical number in profitability.
So 5% is huge when compared to 3%.
So I think your question's right on.
And our next question is a follow-up from the line of Jay Cohen of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Not to get too granular but you suggested just recently that the regional business was seeing increases around 5% and you also said that worker's comp you were getting more like a double-digit increase.
And I assume most of that's in the either regional or alternative market business.
It suggests that the specialty business is kind of well below that 3% still.
Is that accurate? And I guess it partly reflects in the D&amp;O which you say was still pretty competitive but could you reflect on that? I think that -- first of all a big part of that comp business is in that regional business.
So I think that that part second of all I think that when you look at the specialty business there is a piece of specialty business that's not getting price increases and lots of other parts that are getting substantial price increases.
I think that it's -- one of the problems with being an analyst is you're trying to get -- Gene and I were talking about it this morning you're trying to come up with a specific analytic number that won't add up the way you're getting at it.
But in fact I'm giving you information that's analytic from our pricing monitors okay? And it's a matrix pricing monitor the comes up with those numbers.
So I'm going to have to -- to give you your answer I'm going to have to spend -- I'd have to spend a lot of time trying to break apart all the pieces.
You want to add to that Rob? Yes.
I think if I understood your question correctly Jay obviously as we suggested depending on the product line we're getting a different level of rate increase.
The comment about worker's comp maybe it was lost but the significant rate that we're talking about achieving is really around the line of excess comps but we are getting a meaningful amount of rate on this primary comp.
I would suggest that at blended basis primary comps probably running at about 5 or so and excess comp is something north of that.
And I show no other questions in the queue at this time.
Okay.
Thank you all very much.
I think that -- I appreciate it and if anybody has any other questions feel free to give Karen or Gene a call.
And have a great day.
Good day and welcome to W.
R.
Berkley Corporation’s Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
The speakers’ remarks may contain forward-looking statements.
Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words including without limitation believes expects or estimates.
We caution you that such forward-looking statements should not be regarded as a representation by us that the future plans estimates or expectations contemplated by us will in fact be achieved.
Please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31 2010 and our other filings made with the SEC for a description of the business environment in which we operate and the important factors that may materially affect our results.
W.R.
Berkley Corporation is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any such obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
William R.
Berkley.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much.
Welcome to our year end call.
We were very pleased with our quarter and the direction of things.
We think that our general expectations are being met and we’ll start with Rob talking about our operating results for the quarter.
Rob do you want to go ahead.
Jr.</strong> Thank you.
Good morning.
For the industry the fourth quarter seemed to follow the same pattern that it’s been experiencing for the past several quarters.
Noteworthy catastrophe activity along with a continued deterioration amongst many of the casualty lines.
While cat events such as the floods in Thailand would seem to be exceptional or perhaps unexpected.
This view is questionable given the recent industry experience over the past 18 months.
Additionally eventually it will end in tear.
Having said this it would seem as though with every passing day the industry continues to further set itself up for classic hard market.
The attention of carriers is being fourth to migrate away from reserve redundancies and redirected towards the need for additional rates and more disciplined with selection.
In fact there is growing evidence that some carriers not only have been aggressive in their underwriting but also may have been overly optimistic in the reserving practices and may in fact be (inaudible).
Earlier in 2011 the spotlight was primarily on the need for rates in cat exposed properties and workers compensation.
More recently it would appear there is developing recognition that brought our actions required.
Shifting to organization the group’s net written premium for the fourth quarter was $1.09 billion.
This is an increase of 19% over the corresponding period in 2010.
The breakdown of this growth is approximately six points associated with increased exposures of existing insurers including audit premiums 4.2 points of peer rate and the balance from the new business.
As in the past several quarters the company’s growth continued to come about primarily as a result of how we have positioned our operations at more recently.
Marketplace dislocations as many carriers continued to adjust their behavior.
While the impact of these circumstances are felt group wide they are most visible in the specialty and international segments.
Additionally continued gradual improvements in the US economy is providing further assistance to our insurers which in turn we are benefiting from as well.
The group's price monitoring showed an improvement on average renewal rate of 4.2% in the quarter and just shy of 5% in December.
We anticipate this trend of building momentum of rate increase to continue well into 2012.
Further on the topic of price monitoring it's worth mentioning our metrics do not fully focus on our renewal business but also on new business.
Our data would suggest that the group is achieving slightly higher rates on new versus renewal business.
This would be an example of one of the many metrics we have that provide comfort with the respect to the margin in the new business level.
The renewal retention ratio remains again at approximately 80% providing further confirmation that we are achieving rates without undermining the underwriting integrity of the book.
The group’s loss ratio in the fourth quarter was 62.7% which includes 1.3 points or $15 million of storm.
Approximately $13 million of the $15 million is associated with the Thailand floods.
The company’s expense ratio in the quarter was 34.1%.
This improvement is mainly due to the gradual growth of our earned premiums.
We anticipate this trend continuing throughout 2012.
The combined ratio for the quarter came in at 96.8 however when one adjust for reserve development as well as catastrophic events the current accident year remains at approximately at 99.
the group’s philosophy in setting loss reserves is to initially select cautiously and revisit these picks regularly through a rigorous actuarial process.
This approach has led to 20 quarters in a row of positive reserve development.
The greater property and casualty commercial lines market has clearly entered a time of transition.
There is no doubt with every passing day we are witnessing an increasing piece of change when it comes to carrier behavior.
Market participants are not only looking to raise rates but also narrow their risk appetite.
This is not only evident in the rate increases the industry is achieving but also through the accelerating flow of business into the specialty market as well as the rapid growth we are absorbing in the assigned risk plan segment of the market.
We have seen these changes in marketplace behavior accelerated through 2011 and anticipate it will continue further in 2012.
It is very difficult for any of us to predict the future with any level of precision.
On a macro level things are generally unfolding however as we expected.
The movement we have been waiting for is rapidly approaching.
Years of underwriting discipline along with tireless efforts of many has positioned our organization ideally for a turn in the market.
The fruits of these labors will become increasingly visible over the next few years.
Thanks Rob.
Gene is now going to talk about our financial results and then I’ll try then I'll try to bring it together with our general view of the industry and where we stand from a positioning point of view with the company.
Gene go ahead  Okay thank you.
To begin with Rob mentioned that net premiums were up 19%.
Premiums actually increased for all five of our business segments and for 38 of our 46 operating companies.
That growth as Rob was led by the international segment which was 43% followed by specialty up 21% alternative markets 19% reinsurance 15% and regional by 2%.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates did not have a significant effect on those growth rates for either the company overall or for the international segment itself.
The increase in our overall combined ratio of 2.7 points resulted from slightly slower favorable reserve development as well as modestly higher catastrophe losses.
Favorable reserve development overall was $40 million or 3.6 loss ratio points in the quarter compared with $55 million or 5.6 loss ratio points a year ago.
Loss reserves developed for all five business segments and the reserve development was inline with reserve releases for the year which totaled $183 million and averaged $46 million for quarter.
Catastrophe losses were $15 million in the quarter compared with $6 million a year ago.
The 2011 losses included the $13 million from the floods in Thailand that Rob mentioned $5 million of that was in our own international business and $8 million was in the reinsurance segment and resulted from our minority participation in the Lloyd's syndicate.
The expense ratio improvement by two-tenth of a point compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 and also compared to the third quarter of this year as volume has grown and we expect that expense ratio to continue decline as the recent increases in written premium become recognized as earned premiums over the following year.
By operating segment our combined ratios were 96% for specialty 93% for regional and 98% for international.
The increase in the combined ratio for specialty was due to lower reserve development for that segment and the increase in the combined ratio for the reinsurance segment was also due to lower reserve development and also to higher property losses including the Thailand floods I referred too earlier.
The accident year number that Rob referred to is 99% in the quarter is exactly where it was for all of 2011.
Operating cash flow more than tripled to $185 million that’s due mostly to a 10 point decline in our paid loss ratio.
Our paid loss ratio is 59% in the fourth quarter and just under 60% for the full year.
Turning to investment income our net investment income was $117 million in the fourth quarter that’s down from $138 million in the prior year quarter.
The income from our fixed income portfolio was $121 million down $7 million from a year ago.
Despite the current interest rate environment the yield on the fixed income portfolio has remained stable at 4% annualized for the fourth quarter of this year compared to 4.1% for all of 2011 and 4.2% for the full year 2010.
Income from our merger arbitrage trading account was $7 million.
That’s an annualized yield of 8% and our investment funds reported a loss of $13 million that was primarily related to the decline in market value of energy related investments that are carried at fair value.
Those investments are reported on the one quarter lag and based on the more recent information we have seen on that we believe fair market values have already recovered that loss.
For all of 2011 our investment bonds reported income of $11 million.
Realized gains were $52 million in the quarter and $126 million for the full-year that’s primarily related to the sale of equity securities and at December 31 2011 our unrealized pre-tax investment gains including common stocks were $660 million up $144 million from the beginning of the year.
You’ll notice that we added a new schedule to our earnings release that shows a breakdown of our foreign bonds by country and bond category.
You also see that we have expanded our foreign bond disclosure by reclassifying approximately $230 million of corporate bonds into the foreign bond category also by country.
Our income tax rate was lower in the quarter that’s primarily due to the realization previously generated foreign tax credits and with that we end up with net income for the fourth quarter of $118 million and an annualized return on equity of 12.7%.
Thank you Gene.
Let me just try and give you some.
First of all I have to say that I’m more positive and more certain without the returning cycle and where things are going than I have been in years.
Cycles don’t change instantly they change slowly and gradually until further events accelerate their change I can’t tell anyone what those further events will be it could be a European insurer size having difficulty because of the euro.
It could be a U.S.
company who has reserve problems or an unforeseen event I can’t tell you precisely what it would be but there is no doubt that a number of companies have not faced out for all of the problems or potential problems in this difficult environment both financial and industry.
We think that that cycle continues to move along and the increasing pricing better terms and conditions it doesn’t always get measured December as Rob said we were just shy of 5% average price increases for the quarter 4.2% but that doesn’t tell the whole story.
There are lots of people who misclassify business and wrote excess and surplus lines business as bonds.
So a 5% or 8% or 10% price increase doesn’t solve the problem when they really need a 30% or 40% or 50% price increase.
So we might write the business that are the [total REIT] business basis.
So some of these numbers are little misleading like when you hear about price increases in addition we ask to keep in mind that price increases go back to the pricing charge originally so if you misclassify excess and surplus lines business as standard market business you can’t charge enough marginal or any additional pricing to have the business becoming profitable it is in the different classified example.
So you have to be careful what you hear and how you react to that there is no doubt that people are looking at the past several year’s results as our which year’s loss reserves and asking whether they’re adequately reserved what their accident year picks have been.
We don’t believe our business is worst that any other company even though our accident year loss reserve fix or combine ratio fix sort of 98 99 give or take.
We think we are a bit on the conservative side but that’s the strategy because we can’t judge with the certainty about loss cost trends or when and if inflation is going to be around the corner.
We are more confident today that inflation is certainly a few years away and we will be able to review our reserves with the more positive outlook going forward through 2012 because of that.
So we are optimistic that just as we were able to deliver double digit returns this year that we’ll continue to do so.
We’re still able to find some opportunities to invest that give us reasonably good yields common stocks don’t represent much of our portfolio and that will probably dividend yielding common stocks all likely to represent a bigger portion of our portfolio.
We’re all likely who is going to buy very high quality commercial mortgages 50% 60% loan-to-value that we think are very well skewed with constantly looking to things like that where you don’t get instant liquidity but not very long duration still we are not interested in having our durations a lot substantially overall.
We think that the cycle pricing wise will accelerate slightly.
I have been optimistic it took till December till we touched the bottom of my pricing expectations of just about 5% and in fact it was just with that not quite.
But the signs are that those pricing expectation are little certain in 2012 and along with that we are finding that people are coming to us because of our consistent approach so even when we maintained our underwriting standards even when we maintained our pricing we were always there as a market.
When we brought in new teams of people they didn’t close people out they gave quotes even if they didn’t write business so we have teams of people who came to us having written $200 million $300 million $400 million $500 million before and for us they wrote $20 million or $30 million of business where they are sitting there well armed with capital and having maintained those great relationship and people are anxious to do business with them because they were always there they were always polite they always quoted we think that we are going to get the benefit of that.
So it’s not going to be the 26 companies we had five years ago it’s the 46 companies we have the core are old companies that we were made up Berkley Corp shrank by 25% so while you may have seen Berkley Corp get somewhat smaller the older companies shrank by 25% not many of our competitors did that.
We think we’ll regain that business and then some and we’ll have the benefit of all the new business.
So we think we have a great world ahead of us and we’re extremely excited.
No doubt investment income is going to be a challenge it’s the challenge we are most concerned with but we are pretty confident that we can find opportunity at this point in time to do not quite as well as they have done 18 months or three years ago but certainly as well as we have done in the past couple of years keeping that yield around 4%.
So with that Mary I’m happy to take questions.
Certainly.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Amit Kumar from Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Thanks and good morning.
Good morning Amit.
Just going back to your comments regarding new business pricing and renewal business pricing can you sort of talk about the other leg you know which is the loss cost trends and assumptions you have for 2012.
First of all I think that we would say loss cost trends are 2% to 3% is our estimate so we think pricing now significantly exceeds loss costs.
Number two we think we have built into our prior year’s loss costs and inflation rate higher than what we have realized and in fact it’s one of the reasons we’re very comfortable with out reserve position now because it clearly doesn’t appear at this moment that we’re likely to have consequential inflation and we were more conservative than many of our competitors and we felt that appropriate to build in a loss cost level and for that possibility and I think that we would probably see even considering medical inflation that was certainly less than 3%.
Okay that’s helpful.
And I guess the other question I have is you talked about business moving back to specialty I know that in the past you have talked about you know losing a lot of the larger accounts.
I’m just wondering has that behavior changed this quarter are you seeing any of that flow coming back to you on the larger accounts? I think I general we don’t see behavior changing in a broad based way – Rob (inaudible) he can talk about the (inaudible).
Jr.</strong> I’m not sure if I would clearly differently it by scale of account even though that certainly will [in fact] I think that I would choose to define that accounts that seem to have more hair on them those are the ones that are more quickly turning up in the specialty market that’s how we never should have left begin with as some of the standard markets are common to their bookings and reacting so the competition around larger accounts well that continues to a certain extent because it helps people make their budget.
Having said that I think the great differentiator is really there is an issue of loss experience those are the consecutive account.
Got it and then I guess just finally you didn’t buyback a lot of shares in Q4 and I’m just wondering you know just based on what’s your saying about the market conditions.
Would it be fair to assume that at something which is somewhat in the background; just based the new opportunities you’re seeing going forward?  It’s always nice when a friend ask that question.
Though here’s – let me take you through the old story about it.
So then maybe be we wont’ have another person to ask the question.
First of all you all know we paid just a little over 28 000 shares to the stock we bought back; less than book value.
So we were happy with the stock we bought back would have bought more back if we could have at that price.
We always try and buy stock back at an attractive price even if it stretches our capital position; we would buy back stock.
So if we could have bought a $100 million of stock back at that price we would have bought a $100 million stock back at that price or a price near that.
We couldn’t unfortunately.
So we’re price sensitive to what we’ve had.
What we do is each quarter we sit and look and look where our premium volume is going.
How much excess capital we have and we anticipate we have what our dialog is with rating agencies and where we’re going and ensure how much capital we have that we think is excess capital and then we move forward from there.
I could easily see if the stock sold at a big enough premium for an extended period of time to say to pay dividend a special dividend.
Even though in some way is that sort of wasted money because it doesn’t help how people look at it it’s a way to get money back to our shareholders and it’s certainly something we would consider.
I think giving shareholders their money better than money back was selling at a particular premium is better than buying stock back if we have a lot of extra capital.
At this moment in time I think we will continue to look to buy back stock.
It’s not that out of our price range it’s in somewhat out of our price range.
But there’s a lot of opportunities; we think there’s a lot of opportunities for growth and expansion and I’m hoping that I’ll be able to need every dollar of capital I have but that’s a little more optimistic than even I am at the moment.
Got it; okay thanks.
Thanks for the answers.
Good morning.
I – just first starting off with the with a loss cost trend question and one follow up if I may.
Looking at worker’s comp medical loss costs inflation from the likes of NCCI it looks like medical loss costs running somewhere in the low-to-mid single digits kind of you talked about earlier.
But it kind of compares to an accelerating pace in the low-to-mid-teens in 2001.
So my question is does it – a lack of rapid medical loss costs inflations accelerations imply less industry reserving (inaudible) compared to what we had gained last time versus now going into the next hard market.
Does that imply less upward pressure on work comp rates as we kind of accelerate from here?   Okay I’d like to make sure that we understood the question.
Earlier you had referenced some NCCI’s statistics could you share those once more? Sure just looking at a different industry stats and kind of what some of the participants are talking about it; it’s medical loss cost inflation in the – say 3% to 5% range and if we look back to kind what was happening say in 1999 to 2001; we had seen quite aggressive acceleration of loss cost trends out there into the low teens.
And so if we’re only running a – let’s say a rather stable [word in] the single-digit range I’m just kind of curious if without that accelerating very high inflation rate does that mean that we won’t see the same level of the adverse development pushing the industry higher on work comp rates as we kind of go into the next hard market?  Look clearly the medical inflation component is very relevant to many lines and a few more so than worker’s compensation.
Having said that I think that the fundamental issue that is driving the change in worker’s compensation it really has more to do with how many dollars people were collecting per unit of exposure.
And well clearly medical is a significant component and people need to contemplate that appropriately and then coming up with their pricings quite frankly putting that aside for a moment people just got overly aggressive as how they priced the business beyond this the medical component.
I think in addition to that other trend factors such as frequency probably stands out in particular as far as something that people were overly optimistic about and it’s probably one of leading drivers as to the change in appetite and behavior that you’re seeing in the marketplace today.
I think the medical is an important component I would not [slowly] hitch my leg into that assumption as to what’s driving the change.
Okay that’s very helpful.
And I guess just kind of following along that the rate topic here.
I don’t think that the lack of adequate underwriting profitability or coordinate [investment] income yields.
It doesn’t seem like that is – that surprised anymore I think that’s probably accepted.
So I’m just kind of curious if you see any risks pushing the market back into soft territories.
If everyone is acutely aware of the poor operating environment.
So I guess what I’m asking is if irrationality can persist in this sort of environment if we’re all kind of operating in this the same environment expectations? Well there’s no one who could dial a [phone] that doesn’t know with irrationality can exist in anything at any time.
So I can’t comment on that.
But I will tell you that if anything at the moment people have if – have not even begun to feel the pain of the under pricing that took place in 2009 and 2010 and certainly the beginning of 2011.
So I think that irrationality aside I would expect that there will be a lot more pain.
And if you’re back in history at turning the cycle it always looks like we did worse than everybody else by expecting a 99 action in here when other people were expecting 95s 92s and everyone has talked what happened to Berkley underwriting they really have gotten sloppy and the answer is we haven’t gotten sloppy we just have printed the numbers more of a reflection of what they are.
So I would suggest that many people in the industry have probably not adequately reflective of the current action in here is vis-à-vis their pricing and I think the pain is just beginning.
So I would be surprised but you can’t ever bet on how foolish people can wish.
And in terms of that pain coming down the pipe how would you venture to take a guess on how long it is before we start to see some installment fees popping up or that really just depend on what reserve numbers – company is going to – putting out…  I think by and large the industry is well-capitalized I don’t – I think if you’re going to see an insolvency it’s going to be under – it’s going to be for something coming up that we didn’t foresee; someone who had a cap on the reinsurance and they mostly underpriced their business for someone who’s more modest-sized company with a $1 billion of capital and just lot more than they understand or someone who has investment problems because they were too aggressive.
I’d be surprised if there were any (inaudible) solvencies with the exception of the exposure somehow or another to currencies or foreign exposures that people no one anticipates.
All right.
Thanks for all the answers.
Thank you.
<br>Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vinay Misquith from Evercore Partners.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Sort of wanted to get some more clarity on the transition of business from the standard market to the ENS market and I believe you’ve mentioned that that was because of the risk selection rather than just pure price.
And so just around that are you I mean if Berkley able to charge a higher price versus the standard markets and also why aren’t standard markets taking that business if pricings are maybe 15% to 20% as you would be charging because it’s – you know because it’s an ENS market versus standard paper.
Jr.</strong> Okay I think there were a few questions in there so let me turn in address them one at a time.
I think first of all the observation that we have shared in the – and we have seen over the past several quarters is that the migration of business back from the standard market into the specialty market.
Obviously if you will but they are also examining their portfolio and taking note of certain classes of business or exposures that don’t really fit within their appetite or their comfort zone.
As a result of that they are coming through their book and they are driving the business to seek another alternative in the specialty market and often times the E&amp;S market.
I would suggest you that by and large the specialty market is commanding a higher price than the standard market is seeking and I would suggest that the E&amp;S market is an extreme if you will both from a terms and conditions as well as a pricing perspective.
So I do believe that the business that is leaving the standard market into the specialty market is commanding a higher price the written terms and conditions are beginning to tighten and our expectation is that the flow of business from standard to the specialty market will continue to accelerate.
I think I would add one thing and that is the underwriters will have this business and are looking at it un-renewal in the standard market.
Aren’t equipped to deal with changing hats and becoming E&amp;S underwriters and underwriter at X Y Z company who has written it [as a Bob] doesn’t have the beginnings of the knowledge necessary to write it and price it appropriately they squished it and mushed it so would fit in their box as an E&amp;S as a Bob policy which never should have happened.
So the fact is the risk can’t fit in their area at all so it just it’s not like we are a Bob underwriter and we are going to then write something they just don’t have the expertise.
Okay.
Fair enough.
So I shouldn’t be looking at the plus 5% saying pricing is not up all at much why you guys are writing business it’s really I mean it’s really an apples to oranges correct? Yes.
Okay.
Fair enough.
The second question was I mean you certainly seem to believe that pricing will rise more this year versus last year.
Just trying to get a sense of what the opportunity costs that are waiting sort of rather than growing 19% fourth quarter why not wait for a few quarters until you get more appropriately priced product to write this year versus last year? Well first of all if you look at every market turn we start to grow before the dramatic access in price because it’s easier to renew business once prices start to change.
You can’t – this is not a speed boat this is not a boat that turns on the dime and you say okay wait wait wait go and then all of a sudden you change how to behave.
As we start to see these things changing you got to persuade brokers; you got to persuade agents to start to give you the business.
If I thought I can wait it would be better to wait till that moment happens but that’s not how the real world works it isn’t like buying a security and selling it it’s you’re starting on that parade to build the business which you then hopefully will renew at a higher price next year.
And we have the capital to do it and we think we don’t write any business that we don’t think is profitable.
So the fact is that we started growing in 2011 because we thought the pricing was beginning to be profitable and we think that’s continuing to be the case and we will renew the business that we wrote in the first quarter of last year at a slight increase and an increase on top of that increase and so forth.
So it’s just how we believe you optimize the results for your business it just doesn’t turnaround you just don’t go into an agent or a broker and say give me the business now here it is so we just – that we just don’t think that’s how you run a business.
Okay fair enough.
And so in terms of profitability on the new business what ROEs do you think the new business is being put on your books right now? We would hope that we would achieve our 15% return that’s our expectation every piece of business that we write we target that now that having been said there may be one – it’s one area or another that doesn’t get us to there but that also depends on the investment returns we can get it depends on a whole lot of things but I can assure you that if we’re going to look back at the business we wrote at the end of 2012 you are going to see certainly an expectation that we will have had and return that would average 15% or more.
Good thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Greg Locraft from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Hi good morning.
Actually just one of the follow-up on the ROE.
Can you do a 10 ROE in 2012 and if so how will you get there? Well I think that we did more than a 10 this past year.
And as we have said we’ve shifted some of our investment portfolio to realize gains.
So some of our investment returns are going to come as gains as well as not gains in the bond portfolio also gains in common stock even though we are not investing big amount of money we’ve been pretty successful in that.
So I think we will – I think the combined ratio is likely to come down.
We think that we still have some level of redundancies and we are not sure how much that is but we are going to reconsider where we think inflation is going to be in our reserves as the year goes on but yeah we expect to have a double-digit return.
Okay.
So I mean I actually I have the ROE this year as an eight and change not as a 10 but you’re saying include investment gains so you want to – it’s a net ROE is that what you are saying not an operating ROE.
Yes because we’re taking out all of our funds and so forth and taking them out and we’ve told people on two calls ago I believe maybe three calls ago that given our investment strategy which is shifting that – we think that that income is a better measure but… Okay.
I think our operating ROE was a little over 9% for the quarter; I think 9.1% for the quarter.
Okay okay.
And then I guess again to the last question you mentioned a 15 on new business.
No no that was – the question was how do we price new business.
And the answer is we price the business with a target of 15.
Okay.
And when you price it at 15 are you picking it? I guess it seems to me that you’re – philosophically given how well the releases have continued you’re pricing it for 15 and then maybe picking it much lower and that’s why the reported ROE is significantly below the new business ROE after – new business target ROE after all the – after several quarters of growth.
I’m trying to figure out what’s holding back the reported numbers from the target numbers.
When they price it – when they price the business they are not pricing in cushions on reserves and so forth [and caution] that we build it.
As well there is a lag.
It takes time.
So the results you see now are results from probably 2010 2009 it’s a blend of years.
It’s not just – what’s reported in 2012 will be a combination of 2009 2010 2011 and 2012 and it’ll be a combination of – those years will be a combination of reviewing reserves as we set them up.
You have the unfortunate job of trying to make an extremely complex business into something that seems easier to analyze.
But as you well know it’s this blend of accident years that makes it a little more difficult.
I’m sure if you’d like Gene and Karen would be glad to go over on how that blends in but… Okay.
It’s just not one accident year that gets reported obviously.
Okay great.
And then last one is just flexing the balance sheet.
You guys are crushing it on the top line now.
The market’s getting better.
You’ve obviously built the engine for this kind of a situation.
How do we think about the upside to your top line? I guess if you continue this you’ll be at a [$1.2 million] plus premiums are surplus by year-end.
Can you – how much can you do if you love the business on the front-end? Well I don’t – first I don’t think we will.
I think that if we grow at that rate you have to remember we have retained earnings we’re generating.
So if we do even taking a 10 or a 12 because net income is what generates capital.
So if you do that we’re only going to be about [$1.1 million].
But the fact is I think that if we’re generating high returns and we love the business we could probably run at [$1.5 million to $1 million] for a period of time.
But the cornerstone there Greg is what kind of return can we get.
If we’re not going to get over 15% reported returns of net income clearly we’re going to be constrained to grow at a 15% or 20% after a couple of years.
But we think our returns will be good and we think that we’ll have the capacity to grow as much as we’d like.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Nannizzi from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Just a couple questions in the regional segment.
I’m trying to reconcile written premium trends there to some of the commentary.
So first what was the rate change if you could in that regional segment of pure price or pure rate? Well we don’t give it out by segments certainly [we don’t do that].
Okay.
So – but it sounds like it was positives.
So… Every all segments had positive rate direction.
Right okay.
So then – and then exposures were also positives? Yeah I think exposures in the regional were – I don’t they were positive.
I would say [flat or down] maybe even down a little bit.
Okay.
I guess my drive is – so I mean just kind of listening to other folks and trying to digest what we’re hearing is it seems like U.S.
commercial line pricing particularly at the small end is where you’re seeing some of the better pricing and some exposure growth.
But it sounds like you’re seeing rate but not a lot of – not exposure growth.
I’m just trying to reconcile those trends in terms of how that – are you seeing that in your book or you’re not? Jr.</strong> Mike it’s Rob here.
Hey Rob.
Jr.</strong> Let me take a crack at this.
We certainly are seeing rate in the regional book.
Exposure growth it is there but new business is very difficult to come by given what our view is to what rates need to be.
So we’re able to get the rate that we would like on our renewal book which is give or take running around 80 plus percent in the regional group.
Exposures maybe up a little bit and that’s coming through in our audits as far as the renewal book.
But new business is probably the challenge really across the board as people are trying to hold on to their books and [technically] the distribution system given the change in market conditions is reluctant just to be moving accounts around.
Okay I see.
I see.
Then I guess just probably just you kind of talked a little bit about current – your outlook for rates and talking about pricing and earnings through.
How should we think about the impact of higher prices earning thorough and offsetting the negative impact of investment yields on earnings.
I mean it – are we deploying where that should be – they should offset each other in ’12 or you think that the earns-through of pricing is going to overcome the negative income of investment yields on earnings? Well first of fall our fixed-income investment yields remain virtually flat 4.1% down to 4%.
So we’ve been able to find places where we’ve been able to maintain the fixed-income yields.
The return on the portfolio was purely from investment funds returns.
And I think Gene already said that in fact the loss under investment funds and those [their effects] are reported; it was a delay of a quarter already have been made up.
So we know the first quarter investment funds are going to effectively offset those.
Also they’re going to be positive by – I don’t know what’s the number Gene the ones we know about? Yeah.
Well the loss for this quarter was $13 million.
So it will be something less than that but it might be – a lot of that’s already been recovered so.
Right.
So the fact is that the funds that we reported with a quarter lag effectively are going to be $13 million positive.
So if that’s going to swing investment yield for example in the first quarter it’s one of the problems that you have with some of the various accounting changes that are being impacted.
In addition to that we’ve been able to be opportunistic and we still have a – while we have good cash flow it’s still not overwhelming us yet.
And we’ve been able to find things to do with the money at this point in time.
So I don’t think investment income is going to suffer at least in the first six months which is a plus because the pricing impact take as you well know take five quarters to be fully reflected.
They get partially reflected each quarter a little more.
So it’ll be the third quarter before they’re mainly reflected and the fourth quarter till they’ll be fully reflected.
So investment income will be good.
There will be modest impact but very modest in the first quarter of pricing.
Hopefully expenses will be better because volume will increase of earned premium because that comes in right away.
So I would think that it would be an accelerating trend.
So by the end of the year things will be [better the risk] by the end of the year the cash flow was such that we can’t find places to invest the money.
The positive is you will have all those price increases having a greater effect plus what I expect will be [substantial] this year.
So I would expect though it’s an improving trend; investment income is doing well and certainly not going down because we’re not investing for short-term stuff for the most part.
So it’ll be marginal new investments.
So I don’t think that that will be the case and I think we only have about $1.8 billion that sort of rolls out in the next 12 months.
Okay great.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Doug Mewhirter from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Doug.
Most of my questions have been answered.
I just had a question for Gene.
You gave your yield is that a book yield? And also does that approximate new money yields notwithstanding all the previous comments that [Bill has] made? Yeah it is a book yield and it has approximated as you can tell by the fact that it just haven’t changed that much.
So we’ve been able to achieve those kind of – nearly that kind of a return on our new earned investments.
Okay great.
Thanks.
It’s all my questions.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Josh Shanker from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone.
Mike asked most of my questions.
The only other question was on really the numbers.
I’m trying to [seeing] Gene’s methodology on ROE.
You said 12.7% ROE.
I’m trying to get to it myself.
Can you walk us through it a little bit? That was net income.
That wasn’t operating income.
Yeah I still get only about 12% though.
I think that [you’re reaching] that Gene.
Yeah.
I mean I don’t think we serve the purpose.
I guess the only point I’d make is we use beginning-of-the-year equity so that just [maybe].
Maybe that’s it.
Okay that resolves.
Thank you very much.
I might add we have for 40 years used beginning-of-year equity or I shouldn’t say 40 years at least 15 or 20.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jay Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Yes thank you.
Many of my questions have been answered as well.
But Gene I’m wondering if you can just give us the reserve development by segment.
I know that comes up in the Q and the K but do you have those numbers.
All right Jay I think it will be glad to go through them but we don’t they don’t get tight out until the end of today.
And I’m sure they can go through them what we have them in the aggregate but they don’t get fully tied out until the end of the day with KBMG signing off.
So given its year end I’d appreciate it if you would understand and let them give it you at the end of the day.
Thank you understand.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Howard Flinker from Flinker and Company.
Your line is open  Hello everybody.
I have two questions.
One an extension to your comment about possible bankruptcy is would be that the markdowns on sovereign bonds in the Europe could put tremendous pressure on some of those companies.
Can you just talk about it we don’t know how big the mark downs are going to be? And the second when it comes to return on capital and return on equity Warren Buffett would have allow the insurance businesses if we did not include this capital gains.
The use of the money is part of your business.
And so if you include it it seems realistic to me.
The first question is minor they are both minor questions.
You had a lower tax rate in the fourth quarter did that come from because of capital gains on muni bonds.
No it came from foreign tax credits that effectively came in in this quarter for various technical reasons but that’s all.
But in fact capital gains are the same tax saving was regular.
Municipals do give us a big benefit.
Okay.
But its foreign tax credit and its likely foreign tax credits will continue to be a benefit as our foreign businesses are expanding.
Yeah sure.
And second I’m curious about what I thought was a terrific gesture two years ago when BP had a blowout.
You paid your clients claims I think within three days something like that.
And now it’s almost two years later what kind of responses you had from those or other clients? Have you been able to acquire other clients I will comment philosophically after that Rob will talk about the actual business Yeah Jr.	</strong> I think the answer is that the response from the marketplace was positive.
I think people appreciated our timely reaction and getting them the funds that were entitled to quickly.
I think incrementally it helps us build our brand you have greater to be confident of being treated fairly.
Building a reputation takes a long time and doing the right thing is what we think you do and we’ve been trying to do that for a long time and that was just an example you do the right thing and people eventually figure out that it’s worth paying a little bit more than do business with people who in fact deal with you in that way.
No doubt.
I am just curious without mentioning names but some actual oil and gas companies where drillers come to you and say we’d like to change? We deal through brokers and agents but it’s a small community and I think that or else being the same people know who has good reputations and bad.
No doubt.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bob Farnam from KBW.
Your line is open.
Hi there.
Thanks and good morning.
Just a quick question pardon me if I missed it but how has your premium retention been when you’ve been raising the rates have been able to retain the accounts that you’ve been raising rates for? Yeah the group’s renewal retention ratio is running at above the 80s which is give or take a similar level towards the (inaudible) past couple of quarters that obviously gives us further encouragement that we are able to push rates potentially further and also gives us a level of comfort that the underlying book is not – is not being eroded from quality perspective.
Jr.	</strong> I might add that if you go back couple of years ago when we were standing firm about pricing we were (inaudible) for a while.
And we were losing business not because we were trying to raise rate but we were trying to maintain rates and we were – our usual retention levels were lower 75%.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
I show no further questions in the queue and would like to turn the conference back to the speakers for closing remarks.
Okay well thank you all very much.
We are very enthusiastic about where the market place is and where things are.
Obviously there is plenty of things that can go wrong in any environment that is volatile and uncertain is the economic climate we are in today that certainly we think that certainly in the foreseeable future things are looking very positive.
Thank you all very much.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This does conclude that program and you may all disconnect at this time.
Good day and welcome to the W.
R.
Berkley Corporation’s First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
The speakers’ remarks may contain forward-looking statements.
Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words including without limitation believes expects or estimates.
We caution you that such forward-looking statements should not be regarded as a representation by us that the future plans estimates or expectations contemplated by us will in fact be achieved.
Please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31 2011 and our other filings made with the SEC for a description of the business environment in which we operate and the important factors that may materially affect our results.
W.R.
Berkley Corporation is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any such obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
William R.
Berkley.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much.
Good morning everyone.
We were pleased with our quarter.
We were pleased with how business is going.
We are glad all of you are here so you’ll get the opportunity here about our loss reserves and so forth we don’t put it in our press release about our development and things in order to get a better audience on the call.
With that and we’ll start with Rob talking about operations and then will follow with Gene talking about the financials and then I’ll talk a little bit about what’s going on and then we’ll take questions.
So with that Rob why don’t you go ahead? Jr.</strong> Okay thank you.
Good morning.
Market conditions continue to improve during the first quarter.
While our cycle term may not appear visible during any 90-day period when one reflects back and where we were a year ago it is clear there has been significant improvement.
Evidence of the change can be seen in many ways including the increasing number of carriers publicly announcing significant rate increases.
Additionally we are seeing many market participants adjusting their risk appetite resulting in a gradually increasing flow of submissions into the Specialty markets.
This increase in flow predominantly tends to be [risk] with poor loss experience or other competitions.
Furthermore the distribution system seems to have recognized and accepted that we are generally exiting the soft market.
Consequently they are becoming ever more successful and selling the rate increases that many carriers are required.
Lastly the continued accelerating growth of the state defined risk plan populations clearly supports the notion that market discipline is returning.
Having said this life is not perfect and that includes the insurance industry.
There are a few carriers in both the standard and specialty insurance market as well as the reinsurance market that don’t seem to fully appreciate that things are changing.
As a result of this circumstance there is somewhat a lopsided barbell in the marketplace between those that are seeking late adequacy and those that don’t get it.
Having said this the market is turning in spite of this limited number of irresponsible companies that are serving as a hindrance not a barrier.
Primary workers’ compensation and cat exposed property continues to lead other lines with regard rate increases.
the reality of increasing loss costs combined with cat activity over the past several years have clearly caught peoples’ attention.
Additionally the impact of recent revisions to cat models as well as the growing consequence of lower new money rates continues to apply added pressure.
While change in behavior may vary by territory and product lines clearly the general trend is definitively upward.
Having said this for the moment there are certain lines such as excess workers’ compensation and parts of the professional liability market that it remains more resistant to increase the prices.
fortunately however it would seem as though pricing has bottomed out in even these lines and is generally no longer deteriorating.
As we have suggested in the past there is a correlation between the duration of the tale – excuse me and the time it takes market participants to recognize a change in behavior is required.
Additionally the lack of frequency can also experience a similar delay in recognition of underwriting issues.
However even longer tail lines in business that has become exceptionally competitive can overshadow these rules of thumb.
As our Chairman says even long-tail lines of business can become short-tail if they are sufficiently underpriced.
The company’s net written premium for the quarter was $1.2 billion; this represents an increase of 11% over the corresponding period in 2011.
More than half of this growth came about as a result of improved rates.
While all five of our business segments grew during the quarter the lion share of the increase came from our International and Specialty segment.
The performance in these two segments continued to be driven by their exposure to strongly performing industries as well as strongly performing economy.
Additionally some of the operations in these two segments are amongst the most leveraged in the group and greatly benefit from a hardening market.
Finally a significant number of our younger operations are in these two segments.
The group’s rate monitoring for the quarter indicated an increase of approximately 6.5% over the same period in 2011.
It is worth noting this is a significant increase from the 4% that was achieved in Q4 2011.
Furthermore it is also worth mentioning that this is the first time in several years the group has achieved rate increase on top of rate increase for corresponding period.
This is significant given it suggests we have reached a new level of momentum where we’re truly to build upon itself.
Additionally with our renewal retention ratio remaining at approximately 80% it provides comforting evidence that we are not sacrificing the quality of the book while achieving improving rates.
Margin on new business also appears to be headed in the right direction.
The company’s new business rate relativity metric would suggest we are charging a 104.2% for a new versus renewal business.
Put another way with light exposures we are charging 4.2% more for new versus renewal business.
The company’s general philosophy continues to be that one should be charging more for new business given the additional knowledge we have about our existing book.
Our loss ratio for the quarter was 61.8 while this is a similar performance to the first quarter of 2011.
The result was achieved in a different manner due to varying contribution from the different operating units in the group.
This result also includes $4 million of natural cat losses in addition to $2.5 million associated with the Costa Concordia loss.
The expense ratio for the quarter was at 34.7 while this performance was in line with our expectations we anticipate it will improve as the year progresses.
Gene will be providing more detail on this topic along the others shortly.
In the aggregate the company delivered a combined ratio at 96.5.
This result was achieved through the contribution of all five business segments generating in underwriting process.
However when you adjust for the performance to an accident year basis we believe the business is running in the high 90s.
We continue to have great confidence in the soundness of our balance sheet and in particular the strength of our aggregate loss reserves.
As we have explained in the past the company reviews each of our operations’ reserve in a detailed manner every 90 days.
this allows us timely insight into how the book is performing.
We would caution observers not to lead to the conclusion that the lower level of reserve redundancies recognized in the first quarter will be the new norm going forward.
While it would be pre-matured to declare we are on a hard market.
there is undoubtedly sufficient evidence both in our results as well as those of others in the industry to support our view that we are clearly in a hardening market.
The underwriting discipline that our organization has exercised throughout the sales market combined with the investments we have made in new and existing platforms will undoubtedly offer increasing returns as the trajectory of the market turn continues to steepen and accelerate.
Thank you Rob.
Gene you want to go through the numbers simply? Okay Bill.
I'm going to start first with a brief summary of the impact to the change in accounting for deferred acquisition costs.
I’m sure you’ve all heard enough of this by now.
but in the past we issued new guidance that limits the deferral of acquisition costs those costs that are directly related to the successful acquisition of new and renewal insurance contracts.
we adopted this guidance on January 1 2012 and we retrospectively restated our previously issued financial statements to reflect the change in accounting.
the impact of that change to our balance sheet at December 31 was a reduction in [dark] asset of $84 million and a reduction in our common stockholders equity of $55 million or $0.40 per share.
The impact on our income statement for the first quarter of ‘11 was to increase underwriting expenses by $1.3 million and to increase our overall expense ratio by two-tenth of a point.
There is a schedule on our Investor Relations section of our website that shows the details of the impact of this change in accounting on our financial statements for each of the past four years.
We expect this accounting change to cause some delay in the improvement and the recognition of improving expense ratios especially when business is growing and to have the opposite effect when business is shrinking.
I’ll cover this further when we get to the details of our expense ratio for the quarter.
Turning to our results with a solid quarter with respect to both underwriting and investment income our net premiums written overall up 11% to $1.2 billion.
As Rob mentioned that growth was led by the International segment which was up 50% with strong growth and the Asia-Pacific European and Lloyd's businesses.
That was followed by 9% growth for Specialty 6% for Reinsurance 4% for Regional and 1% for the Alternative Markets segment.
The overall loss ratio was unchanged from a year ago with 61.8 losses from natural catastrophes where $4 million it doesn’t include the Concordia loss compared with $24 million a year ago which is an improvement of 2.1 loss ratio points.
Prior year reserve releases where $25 million down from $51 million a year ago which is a difference of 2.9 loss ratio point.
Most of the favorable reserve development in the quarter was related to the Specialty and Reinsurance segment and was related to accident years 2009 and prior.
The 2012 accident year loss ratio excluding cats and reserve releases were 63.7 in the first quarter down nine-tenth of a point from a year-ago as price increases exceeded our reserving assumptions regarding loss cost trends.
In addition our paid loss ratio was down slightly from 59.1 to 58.5 but as a good sign of that beginning to move in the right direction.
The expense ratio was 34.7 in the quarter unchanged from the restated expense ratio for the first quarter of ‘11.
As I mentioned under the new [debt] policy expenses are recognized earlier than before which will slow the recognition of improved proving expense ratio somewhat.
Another way that we look at expenses internally and I know some companies’ actually report this in their earnings releases is on a written basis which compares expenses incurred during the period without any (inaudible) deferral with business written in that period.
This takes out the process of trying to reallocate expenses from one quarter to another and an attempt to match them with earned premiums.
The written ratio varied a little bit more from one quarter to the next due to the seasonality of premium writings but it provides a very objective measure of the year-over-year expense trends.
And on a written basis our expense ratio was 32.7% in the first quarter of 2012 down nine-tenth of a point of 33.6% in the first quarter of ‘11.
Net investment income was $158 million up 8% from a year ago.
Income from fixed income securities including cash was $119 million that represents an annualized yield of 3.9% compared with 4.1% in the first quarter of 2011.
Income from investment funds was $28 million up $16 million from a year-ago with strong earnings from energy and real estate funds and the merger arbitrage trading account earned $6.5 million which is an annualized yield of 8.5%.
Realized gains primarily the sale of equity securities were $47 million in the quarter compared with $29 million a year-ago and unrealized investment gains to after tax were $452 million at March 31 up from $430 million at the beginning of the year.
We have a summary of our investment portfolio on page nine and 10 of the earnings release.
You’ll see the total invested assets were just over $15 billion at March 31 and we’re up $555 million from the beginning of the year.
That increase includes $350 million of proceeds from a senior debt offering that we completed in March and of that amount $200 million will be used to repay senior notes that are maturing on February of 2013.
So all that adds up to a very solid quarter with net income of $135 million and annualized return on equity of 13.7% and an increase in our book value per share of 3.8%.
Thank you.
Thank you Gene.
So overall we're pretty happy with the quarter.
Our results are reflective of what I think are the discipline we’ve shown over prior years and substantial improvement in our performance as we gain market position we’re pleased with what we see.
we measure our reserves carefully as both Rob and Gene mentioned.
We are comfortable and in fact our reserves as we measured in which as we look back at the prior three years’ earned premium and then look at our total reserves outstanding we choose three years’ earned premium because that serves the duration of our loss reserves and our reserves are in an all time high compared to where there has been any measuring point we’ve used in the prior periods.
So we’re pretty happy about where we stand reserve wise.
Inevitably our on-going accident year loss ratio is going to improve its going to improve only because of price increases exceeding loss cost.
So as that 4% from the fourth quarter starts to come into earn premium in the 6.5% in the first quarter as it becomes earned we’re going to see improving result.
So by the end of the year we would expect 3% or 4% improvement in that underlying accident year loss ratio.
That setting aside all the unusual variables you can see quarter-to-quarter in the property casualty business.
But in fact with price increases where they are that improving loss ratio is certain to come into play.
We think that while in individual lines of business you still are seeing people compete aggressively here and there it doesn’t take long before people figure out what they’re doing is stupid.
But stupidity is not limited to any one company or any one underwriter it pops up in all markets we just notice it more when most companies are beginning to be disciplined and understand what’s going on.
So yes it is the unusual behavior becomes more visible.
I think that the cyclical change is always the same exactly how it implemented they will be different but it isn’t going to be a hockey stick and it never has been a hockey stick until some particular event happens which drives a dramatic change.
It can be a hockey stick; dramatic rate increases in a particular line of business or a particular segment of the market.
But overall we’re seeing good strong price increasing and the business is moving towards profitability.
We don’t think interest rates are going to dramatically move up.
We think it is still one world and the difficulties in Europe are going to impact the investments opportunities and we think lots of the marketplace has capital embedded in Europe.
So it’s going to keep pressure on the overall market.
So we’re excited we think we’ll have an excellent year.
We would expect that we will be able to deliver on our book value increasing by 13% to 15% for the year and we expect that we will be able to have additional capital gains if some of the things at Berkley capital and some of our other investments will deliver we’d be honest gains for the balance of the year.
With that Kevin we’ll be happy to take questions.
Thanks and good morning.
Just going back to your comment regarding pricing versus loss cost; did I hear that correctly did you mentioned that 3% to 4% delta maybe just expand on that in terms of your thoughts on the earned premium rates versus loss cost and how you got that…?  No I don’t think it was the delta.
I think what I said is we would expect that by the end of the year we would start to see an improvement in accident year loss ratio possibly as much as three to four points.
So for example by the end of the year if my expectations are correct let's just say by the end of the year you have 8% or 9% increases in your premium rates.
If you have 8% or 9% and you have let's just say a 3% loss [product] increase part of that would come through and then you waited for each quarter prior to that and I’m just saying that’s likely to give you by the fourth quarter up to 3% or 4% or a decline in Europe accident year loss ratio.
Okay thanks.
Thanks for that clarification.
Maybe I guess touch up on California comp and where do you think those trends are now as it relates to the workers’ compensation do you think the rates are finally increasing loss costs?  I’m going to let Rob talk about that.
I think the answer is trying to get your head around California comp loss cost is a pretty slippery slope given that they're willing to change benefits at a jump of a hat and make it retroactive.
Having said that I think the market realizes that they have significant catching up to do.
I think the rate increases that we are getting at this stage in that book are certainly keeping up with our belief as to where our lost costs are going or we’ll be over a period of time and we’re reasonably comfortable.
Having said that I think that the average pricing in the marketplace overall they find themselves in a hole and even the rate increases that they are trying to get today I don’t think is getting them to an underwriting profit in general.
Got it.
That's helpful.
And I guess one other question just going back to your opening comments regarding increasing flow in Specialty.
In terms of – can you talk about the – what’s the pricing differential between ENS versus non-ENS entities for W.R.
Berkley company on an average.
Jr.</strong> I think the tricky part here is that its not just about it is an individual risk what a regional company with price adverse at Specialty Company because it turns its conditions it’s a lot of moving pieces it’s not just purely priced.
What I would suggest to you is this and I’m not to speaking about our businesses but I’m speaking about the market place if you will is that – as I suggested earlier it’s the risk that have a bit of hair on them whether there would be property or casualty for whatever the reason may be or other issues are complications with – they are looking back over the wall into the specialty market and to the extend that they actually drift all the way over to the ENS market the rate increase that exposure would be experiencing is quite material.
I think and you have to understand how we got here.
And that is what we really gets us to a softer market is standard market rates first they get cut a bit and then what happens is they loosen their underwriting standards.
So they say we’re riding all those and not cutting rates anymore and what they’re doing is they’ve loosen their underwriting standards so business that historically was in the ENS market place or otherwise starts to move to the standard market.
Then they had – injury then they cut prices even more because they compete for that (inaudible).
So the sequence of things that happen is first people start to raise their rates and then they figure out they can’t raise their rates enough to pay for this business that never belonged in the standard market at all and then they – their standards that goes back.
So that’s how we got there and that’s how it reversed itself and that’s how the cycle moves and the cycle moves and as far as terms and conditions all of a sudden because when you realize you can’t charge enough you just stop riding the business.
So we represent the worst business in the standard market and it’s the business that they don’t want to renew.
Got it.
Okay thanks.
Thanks so much for all your answers.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Keith.
The first question for Gene you alluded to this in your commentary around the expense ratio maybe if you could talk about when do we start to see more leverage in that number? And maybe if you could even talk about that number currently excluding the start-up so we see leverage there currently and then I’ve got a couple follow-ups for Rob.
Yeah well I mean we’re already seeing in our written expense ratio the leverage come through.
I think like I said before that that calculation that policy kind of slows that down a bit.
But we’re seeing it today and expect it to continue not so much as a result of the start-ups anymore but I think more so as a result of the fact that the top line is growing as much as it is.
Jr.</strong> Keith in some ways growth now with this new (inaudible) calculation is a penalty again and that is you’re not even recovering all your costs on the financial business.
So growth is now once again especially real growth significant growth is not only not beneficial or breakeven it’s a penalty.
So the faster you grow especially once you pass some single-digit number it starts to have an adverse impact because you’re not deferring even your real cost.
So the faster we grow the more adverse that’s going to be at least for the short run.
Okay.
And then Rob I’m just curious why is that net earned premium growing faster than the gross and the net written if rate continues to improve sequentially I would have thought the opposite? Jr.</strong> Could you repeat that (inaudible) make sure you understand that Keith.
Why...
Jr.</strong> Why is the net return different than the growth written as far as growth rates? No the net earned is growing faster than the net written and I would have thought the opposite if rate is improving sequentially quarter-over-quarter.
Jr.</strong> Turning to Gene...
Yeah.
Well I mean the earn is a reflection of the growth not just in the quarter but over the last 12 months of the growth rate.
Jr.</strong> Typically insurance premiums over that.
Yeah.
And we have some policies that are even longer than 12 months so you can’t really tie them directly to the change written in the quarter.
Jr.</strong> There’s nothing that’s changed if that’s what you’re asking Keith.
It maybe because our reinsurance fee...
Reinsurance is probably the big differentiator because now we will as Gene suggested obviously the timing of the earn coming through versus the written now we will change our reinsurance purchasing over a period of time.
Jr.</strong> Yeah.
I mean we’ve got different kinds of reinsurance that covers this year which may have had an impact on it.
Yeah.
That of course will affect the difference between the written – gross return and net return and we have had some of that but in terms of the earned that’s more just a different time period that we’re measuring there.
Okay.
And then just last one for Rob.
on your commentary sill few carriers don’t get it.
Does that imply a highly competitive market for new business and would you expect your retention as a result of that to dip below the 80% level that’s been running at? Thanks.
Jr.</strong> When I say a few carriers I guess what I’m trying to suggest is that they are the minority and the greater marketplace if you will is not only as a realized or recognized action needs to be taken but it's actually translating into their behavior.
So from our perspective you are seeing a change and they are serving as – some of these folks are serving as an obstacle in front.
I think the reason why you’re seeing renewal retention staying in there for ourselves and presumably for some others is because the distribution system recognizes that market is changing and they are less inclined to try and shop business solely on price.
So I think all things being equal it's becoming a less competitive or an aggressive market compared to where it was having said that it can vary by line of business.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Good morning everyone.
I wanted to talk a little bit Bill for a couple of years you’ve been concerned about the industries reserves.
When you look at competitors and peers in the industry they still seem to be releasing a lot of reserves.
do you standby your concerns about industry reserve positions and when do you think that has become an issue?  The answer is I think that some people in the industry have been more aggressive than they probably would have been.
And like I don’t know that I can tell you when that’s going to happen I think you’ve already seen several companies have deficiencies and by and large smaller companies have already had to address those AIG had to address and has.
But my guess is there will be more to come.
but I can’t tell you how soon that will happen.
And do you have (inaudible) on the pace of loss cost trends of where we’ve been one year ago where we are today and where we’ll be in a year you can talk to a yearbook or you can talk to the industry broadly depending on how you think is it appropriate? I think the loss cost trends are no longer totally benign.
they’re certainly increasing modestly.
The global economic picture always has an impact on how these things happen and come down.
and clearly I think the issues that are being faced in Europe overall will impact the economic picture every place.
That being said I think we passed through the period in the United States at least with the benign loss cost picture but I don’t see anything running why – some of you saw loss cost grow at 2% to 3% I think that would be my expectation.
Look at that in some point the United States just like the rest of world is going to have to face up to the ultimate issues of how do you deal with deficits that have accumulated over a long time and inflation and all that goes with that.
but we sitting here today that’s certainly more than 18 months away.
Thank you very much.
Hi good morning.
The first question is on the top line whilst strong this quarter that seen to sequentially decline for their some sort of one-time items this quarter and how do you foresee your top line over the next two quarters?  I think first of all last quarter there was a particularly beneficial item that caused some of the increase.
But I think the turn cycle is not a nice predictable straight [earned].
Candidly we were more optimistic about that growth at the beginning of the quarter than we are today.
we didn’t know why we were surprised that it was in the point or two higher.
but only when you sit and write numbers on a piece of paper can they be very predictable Vinay it’s not –I’m not trying to be cute I don’t really know precisely why where we had some companies that move much faster in the first quarter than in the fourth quarter.
And then we had some that just sort seems to snap their growth.
we had a couple of companies where because they were disciplined in their pricing and we were really pleased they were disciplined in their pricing.
they actually contracted in the first quarter and we were okay with that.
It only takes a couple of companies in the narrow marketplace on [one-one] business or another to make the business competitive for the short run.
And that happened in a couple of lines of business.
So I don’t think it’s a trend and we’re in a position where we saw growth at this level we thought we’d be more aggressive in buying back our stock for instance.
but we’re going to have to wait and see ourselves.
We at this turn of the cycle and at that moment in time are predicting how much you’re going to grow and how much price increases are going to happen hard to tell.
We’re still very positive and we would still expect certainly growth at least the level we’re at now maybe a little more.
Okay fair enough.
The follow-up is on the loss cost trends now you mentioned that Berkley is looking at a 3% loss cost trend some competitors out there are seeing it’s about 4% that still seems to be I mean not very high.
how would you look at pricing in the industry going forward and I believe you mentioned about 8% to 9% in the next two quarters.
But so if in the absence of significant spike in loss cost trends do you still see pressures building within the system for rate increases?  First of all I think a couple of (inaudible).
I said I felt loss cost trends were 2% to 3% and I felt and hit by the fourth quarter I thought price increases would be in the 8% to 9%.
I don’t think that they’re now I think that but continue to get a little better.
I might point out that every 1% decline in interest rates.
For the Reinsurance business you need 7% on price for the standard property casualty company business you need about 3.5%.
You’ve had a 150 basis points decline in interest rates over the past two years maybe or it depends who you want to use and how you want to measure and what you want to say.
But just to offset interest rates you need substantial rate increases without giving consideration for the fact that in Specialty lines prices have to come down 25% and in Standard lines probably 15% or 17%.
So yeah I think that right now people who were to print their accident year results honestly a lot of people would have for company results operating losses on a marginal basis.
So yeah I do think you’re going to have to have pretty significant price increases.
For a while before the companies get to where they’re on a marginal basis making money.
You can’t look backward to your portfolio you have to reinvest the money each day and you have to look forward.
I mean some of the people were going to be in the most trouble are the people will price their underwriting margins and build them based upon their average portfolio yields as opposed to the marginal portfolio yields and they’re going to find out that companies are losing money.
So I think price increases are essential for the industry just to get the breakeven.
Okay that’s good.
Thank you.
Thank you and good morning.
Hey Larry.
I’m just curious with the new business pricing at 104.2 versus renewals does that allow you to basically make a loss [picks] consistent new and renewal business?  I’ll let Rob answer that.
I think that precision to something that we’d like to have.
But I’ll let Rob answer.
Jr.</strong> The answer is that what you’re suggesting is what we target and when we think about our design loss [picks] and we revisit them every 90 days we’d certainly contemplate what the mix in the contribution is a new to renewal business.
Having said that our approach to (inaudible) on the side of caution a bit was new business versus renewal business is not just in how we price the business but also and how we book the business.
From our perspective as I suggested earlier a whole lot more about your [enforced] book than you do about new business.
So we look for a higher rate for new business and we probably air a bit on the side of caution as to how we book it from a design ratio pick.
Having said that when we look at the book that has been written we are cognizant of what percentage is new versus what is renewal as we revisit those loss picks once again every 90 days.
Okay great that’s helpful.
And then with regard to your comment on the reserves the favorable reserve development for the quarter and that we shouldn’t assume that the drop this quarter is indicative of anything in the future was there anything unusual in that or is that just to suggest that one quarter doesn’t make a trend? Jr.</strong> I think we’re trying to get across the message and the message is which I follow-up on that when I made the comment that our reserves relative to the average three years earned premium is at a high level or higher actually than they’ve ever been.
And they’ve gotten higher in each successive year for the past five and despite of reserve releases and that no one should think that the amount of reserve releases was indicative in somewhere another of our concern of our reserve position.
we do a review we conclude where we think we are but we didn’t want people to get the wrong impression.
and frequently people think that the amount of reserves you release is a reflection on your reserve position.
I now think I can speak from our company as well as a number of others.
I don’t think it necessarily is some companies who are deficient still release reserves they even – they released record amounts of reserves it doesn’t change the fact that they’re deficient it’s just they’re more anxious to show better earnings.
Some companies that are redundant are cautious in what they release and they may be getting more and more redundant.
I think investors tend to read too much in about reserve releases reflecting upon a company’s overall reserve position.
Great thanks.
And then finally just reading between the lines Bill I mean I know you’re talking about kind of a gradual up tick in pricing this year it’s still relatively moderate loss cost growth.
But I sense that you still believe at some point in time this is going to turn into a more traditional hard market.
Is that an accurate assumption? The hard markets always start this way and then something happens something happens because someone [cheated] more than they thought they were and gets into [dyer] financial difficulties.
I mean it happened to AIG but AIG got bailed out by the government.
I mean look at all the billions of dollars of deficiencies they had to make up forth.
And we don’t know if that’s done or not they do have very honest guys running the business now and I’m sure they will get there.
but the fact is none of us know where and what is sitting out there.
and all I can tell you is that every time we go into the beginnings of an upward cycle it takes people a long time to get through paying for their past sins.
and usually someone doesn’t have the ability to make it through.
I don’t know who that’s going to be and I can’t tell you for sure.
But there certainly are a lots of issues and risks to that situation.
and I think that you can have other kinds of problems out there.
We certainly don’t know who might be impacted by the European issues and the financial issues of the European banks.
Lot’s of the capital that supports the overall industry is based in Europe.
But I think there are a lot of uncertainties.
I think the fact that is profitability increase is very dramatically with 8% or 9% price increases in this year and with the same next year you see dramatic increases in return on capital – return on capital in the high double-digits certainly for us high – excuse me high teams.
and certainly in the second year of 8% or 9% both increases our returns will be in the 20.
But I can’t tell you or help any more than that.
But yeah I do think prices will continue to go up and I think that those price increases will get to be more substantial just like today a few companies can restrain price increases by their aggressive behavior.
those few companies end up going both; I mean this is what happened with the Reliance and Frontier.
They caused a lot of people a lot of money because they restrained prices in a couple of areas and then they were broken and literally in one month prices in commercial transportation in October of 2000 went up 28% on average.
So that will happen there will be a couple of what I would call smaller to mid-sized companies with a lot of business.
Great.
Appreciate your thoughts.
Thank you.
First question I guess is so if we backout the International segment trying to understand what happened to exposure trends relative to that the pricing change I’m assuming this may not right but I’m assuming that price change outside of International in your segments was better than the pricing change in the International? and just one follow-up.
Mike we typically don’t get into the detail of the pricing so to speak by segment I would tell though that the International segment while rate play the component it had more to do with additional units if you will of exposure driving the growth there as opposed to some of the other segments where [lead] played a more significant component in the growth.
Right if that’s so if we back out the International in Thailand you just focus on everything excluding that I think net written premiums were up just under 5% and so if the 6.5% price change that you saw year-over-year I’m just trying to figure out how to think about what happened to exposures and whether it’s regional or specialty given those sort of the bigger remaining segments? Say that I want to make sure I was following you.
Gene was sending me a piece of paper which was of not much help.
So if we take the consolidated results and we take out International written premiums if math is right net written premiums were up 4.7% excluding international.
And you said that in the International more of the growth was exposures not rate so I’m assuming that 6.5% is probably just fair as a starting point for the business outside of international.
So it looks like if rates were up if you had a $100 of business last year and then you lost some and then you wrote some new business you’re getting 6.5% rate on the business you kept.
I’m just trying to understand why the exposure line actually increased less than the rate change? So 4.7% versus 6.5% I guess is my question  Well first of all I think you have to breakout (inaudible) it’s a longer question and we’re going to answer you.
But a big part of that is impacted by alternative markets which grew at a very low rate barely grew at all and that was because of one particular area that in fact declines because how competitive price their business and we had substantial decline in premium in that one area.
So when you take that out I think that’s probably a little misleading so for example Specialty grew at roughly 9%.
It’s a lot more complicated than we can answer on this call.
I understand.
But I think you’re underlying assumption is by adding up of how many dogs do you have.
If you have 17 animals it’s hard to give you an answer that will make sense but I think that in the specialty business.
And by the way you also have to weight it by amount of premium as it’s not just adding up the pieces.
So I think that the answer would be that the units of exposure in the alternative markets declined and price increase in Specialty business but price increases still drove most of it and as I said I’m sure if you want to go through the details of it we can try and to do that and Gene will go through with you Michael later on.
But it’s not something you can sort of aggregate and just sort of add up it’s a fairly detailed thing.
I think it’s one of those cases where the mathematical conclusion is correct but I think it doesn’t give you the correct aggregate conclusion because as I say the biggest section in the Specialty prices were up 8.8% (inaudible) was up 8.8% and unit exposure were up slightly.
Got it.
That’s helpful thank you very much.
And then just one question about some of the new businesses either in Specialty or International.
Did you add any new teams or new platforms during the quarter? And in terms of the capacity of focus that you’ve brought online I guess particularly International where we’ve seen the most growth.
What sort of percentage of the business that they were writing before they came online here are the writing now? Just to kind of get an idea of pipeline of potential business there? Thank you for your answers.
Jr.</strong>  Mike we added one new team and they’re going to be focusing on the public entity space and at this stage they have not even begun to write business or there is nothing that’s been down.
We expect that to be happening later this quarter so there has been no impact from what we did as far as starting new businesses in the first quarter on the income statement.
We do think that over time it will be a meaningful contributor to the group but certainly at this stage there’s been no impact.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Hi most of my questions have been answered.
Just two quick questions.
First I noticed if my calculations are right your wholly-owned investees reported a pretax loss is that I guess a seasonal swing or is there any particular issues?  It’s just a seasonal swing they expect to meet their budget for the year.
Okay.
And my second and last question you talked about how primary workers comp rates been going up industry wide although loss costs have been kind of unpredictable as well.
But you said that excess workers comp isn’t following and you talked about how there is still some competition in the alternative markets why do you think there is a disconnect and do you think that logjam would eventually break loose this year or do you think it will take a while – going through the (inaudible) market I mean?  Yeah I think what you’re really seeing is just as we have suggested earlier the difference in [KL] or duration of KL as we had suggested earlier excess comp has a much longer tail than primary comp and as a result of that it takes a bit more time from insurance carriers or market participants if you like recognized that they have an issue.
So I do expect that you will see a shift in excess comp and as we also suggested earlier is probably give or take bottoming out.
But there is a bit of a lag or a delay before the reality comes into focus and you’ll see the same type of momentum building in the excess comp line that you are seeing in primary comp.
Okay thanks.
That’s all my question.
Inc.</strong> Thanks good morning.
Two quick questions if I can.
First for Rob when I guess cost (inaudible) not to extrapolate too much from the first quarter’s as they are releases… Jr.</strong> That’s right.
Inc.</strong> Where you saying the $25 million is lower or higher than I guess the expected run rate? Jr.</strong> I think I was trying to suggest to you that I wouldn’t hang my hat at that is the number or the level going forward.
I think it would be very problematic if I answer to your question more specifically.
Inc.</strong> (Inaudible) I’m sorry.
I think if you put that together what I said you should have the answer.
Inc.</strong> Yes now I think I do.
Which is our aggregate reserves have never been stronger.
Inc.</strong> Right that’s why (inaudible) I think this is interpretive Rob the first time that’s why I was asking.
Jr.</strong>  Okay.
Inc.</strong> In general Bill when you think about the mix between property and casualty it looks like you’re a little bit more heavily focused on the property side than historically is that a reflection of rates or change in approach because as a larger company you can afford a little bit more volatility?  I think there is several things that happened.
First of all with interest rates down the difference in expected return for short-tail line and I don’t mean property lines but short-tail lines has changed because you’re now no longer getting the benefit of that higher investment return on longer tail reserves.
So on marginal business that we write new business out the improved return from casualty business is less than on shorter tail lines of the business.
So yes we have shifted whereas longer tail lines of business used to represent let’s just say between 85% and 87% of our business today and probably represents 82% of our business still very predominantly casualty focus very predominantly long-tail but yes consciously a decision that says we’re willing to shift.
Number two pricing on some of those lines of business have gotten much more attractive.
And number three some of those specialty lines in fact do have some volatility that when we were a lot smaller company we couldn’t take and now we can afford to take it things like marine business where we can afford to have an adequate and that to make money on line of business.
So all of the above that you mentioned.
Inc.</strong> Okay thank you very much.
Good morning.
Just one question it’s just something you guys have talked about and that was in the quarter the underlying loss ratio was better than a year ago.
I guess as I thought about it I expected that the earned premium for the first quarter still reflected obviously business written last year when price increases did not keep pace of claims inflation.
So while I think you’re right you certainly should see improvement later in the year.
I was surprised to see it in the first quarter anything else going on there?  Jay there are a couple of things going on there but probably the most noteworthy what have to do with a benign first quarter as it relates to property losses and obviously that drops right through.
So relative to what our expectation would be for property loss activity in Q1 versus what it turned out to be things were a little bit better and while there are a couple of different moving pieces I would suggest you the lack of property loss activity was the leading contributor.
That was my second question (inaudible).
But overall I think that the trend of loss costs again were less than 4% probably slightly less than 3% of the third quarter rather.
So there is a slight benefit of those price increases in the third and fourth quarter of last year.
Got it.
And then on the fixed income portfolio can you talk about the difference between the new money yields and the expiring yields or your book yield I should say?  Well first of all we have been pretty cautious about reinvesting.
In the past 45 days you’ve could in a 10-year guess anywhere from 240 to 197 and we’ve been cautious in what we’ve done.
So we have more cash than we’ve ever had I should say ever had.
We have more cash than usual.
We have I think $1.4 billion cash give or take.
So I would say a couple of things we’re doing Jay.
Number one we’re looking to try to buy highly protected mezzanine mortgages where we can get 5% or 6% that have sort of three to four year duration five year at most that will help us offset by lower yields on our fixed income marketable securities.
So I’d say overall we’ve started to invest between 3.75 and 4 in a quarter.
So we don’t – we think it’s going to have a slightly adverse impact.
We hope that’s going to be offset by common stock dividend yields which we could have invested probably $400 million of common stocks based on (inaudible) yields and attractiveness for what we think will be gain but not what I call a dynamic stock portfolio but a conservative one.
And in addition finding – the particularly small niche thing that we bought some housing bonds that give us tax credits that will give us effectively 7% or 8% yield.
But it doesn’t appear in the investment income it’s going to appear in a lower tax rate.
So for now we think we’re okay.
Still sort of maintaining this give or take 4% boggy and our yield.
But as I say I’m very comfortable as the market changing.
There is no doubt in my mind about price increases and where they’re going.
My biggest concern is the harder the (inaudible) turns and the greater our cash flow where we’ll be able to keep finding niches to invest and then opportunities to invest at the current portfolio level.
And I think that certainly the situation we’re seeing in Europe which is the populous movement not to face facts of economic discipline physical discipline is an issue we’re going to face here too.
And if we don’t we’re going to have inflation and with inflation you don’t want to lock in higher rates for longer terms which we actually have not done.
Got it.
And then one last quick question I guess for Gene.
Can we assume the catastrophe losses were all in the regional segment? That’s right.
Great thanks a lot.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Question on the excess workers comp piece so with AIG pulling back in that space have you seen any changes thus far and do you see that as a good opportunity to have that market change more quickly?  AIG has reduced their relative competitive position before they had gotten more sensible they’re pulling was certainly helpful.
There is one company that we think was a very aggressive price in the business.
They didn’t price their discount on their investment yields and excess comp is average duration of the portfolios price by 17 or 18 years.
And it’s enormous impact would rate assumption interest rate assumption and they based discount on their average portfolio yield not based on current marginal interest rates because of that share prices were from 40% less than ours and that’s the one place in our industry where we loss business substantial business.
That company is in the process of being sold so we’re hopeful their new owners will get sensible.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay thanks.
Good morning guys.
How are you?  Good morning.
I just wanted to ask about the 4.2% higher price increase you are achieving higher than your renewal business.
How is that comparison of pricing for these two buckets trended over say like the (inaudible) quarters? And could you also comment on what the down versus quarter trend has doing in the same time period for the new business?  Let me answer the first one and then I will – then if you could ask the second piece I didn’t catch the whole thing.
Relatively speaking within the certain number of basis points that delta between new versus renewal has been pretty consistent over the past several quarters.
So that is not a new phenomenon we decided to start to bring that to people (inaudible) because A.) We think it’s relevant and B.) Surprise us how the industry in general doesn’t really seem to talk about new pricing that tend to focus only on renewal pricing which we didn’t feel as appropriate.
So the short answer is that it’s been pretty consistent.
Okay.
And the second question was actually just how is your down versus quoted metric has been trending in your new business and say in the same time period four quarters?  As far as those ratios by the group or by segment or by operating unit that’s just not the stuff that we typically get into.
I would tell you that new business is a bit more competitive today than it was in prior quarters at the same time we are finding opportunities.
And it has once a year as become a bit more competitive for new business and that’s more I think a reflection on a change in the attitude of the distribution system as much as anything.
Great thank you.
Surprising almost all have been answered maybe just one question.
As you move from more into mortgages on the asset side you gave some good statistics there.
But what sort of loss assumptions you’re using in those sorts of assets relative to what you might be using when you think about corporate investments? Thank you very much.
Jr.</strong>  The mortgages we’re buying are all less than 50% debt to value.
So we’re not really using anything with significant leverage and we’re all – the mortgages we’re buying have relatively short duration.
So the things we’re using is fairly frankly we don’t think there is any consequential risk that was we’re not in the open market we’re not buying just stock as a marketplace.
Do you (inaudible) underwriting these or are you buying products from others?  I’m not going to talk about the specifics.
We’ve had relationships with people who have done this for a while  Well thank you all very much.
We are very enthusiastic and well clearly we felt we will grow more in this quarter than we did.
I think one of the things it happens in a cycle (inaudible) the distribution part of our business is sort of sitting and adjusting to price increase environment and not out shopping the business that also means until some of the companies start to – that higher standards or terms and conditions there is not as much business outlook I think that’s going to start to change more dramatically.
I think right now what we would expect to have price increases continue when to accelerate somewhat and as we said by the end of the year we’d expect 8% or 9% may be a little better and we’d expect [growth] to get somewhat better than it was in the first quarter.
So thank you all very much.
Have a great day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!  Good day and welcome to W.R.
Berkley Corporation’s Second Quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
The speakers’ remarks may contain forward-looking statements.
Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words including without limitation “believes ” “expects” or “estimates.” We caution you that such forward-looking statements should not be regarded as a representation by us that the future plans estimates or expectations contemplated by us will in fact be achieved.
Please refer to our annual report on form 10-K for the year ended December 31<sup>st</sup> 2011 and other fillings made with the SEC for a description of the business environment in which we operate and the important factors that may materially affect our results.
W.R.
Berkley Corporation is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any such obligations to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
William R.
Berkley.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning.
First everyone should understand we do not [inaudible] insurance business.
We got out of that business in 1986 and haven’t seen it since.
Number two I must be the only person that was happy with our quarterly earnings based on the stock price.
We’re pretty pleased with how things are going we’re pretty pleased with where the business is and the direction we see things.
I’ll talk more about the general industry and our position.
First Rob is going to talk about the operating segments and then Gene will talk about the numbers and then I’ll try to pull it all together and take questions.
Rob? Jr.</strong>  Okay.
Good morning.
Market conditions in the second quarter were a continuation of the trends we observed in Q1.
Carriers seem to be increasingly aware of the realities that stem from a weak investment environment combined with less robust prior year reserve development.
Additionally it is becoming more apparent that the benign loss trends experienced over the past several years may not be a proxy for what we should expect going forward.
The reality of these ongoing circumstances continue to apply pressure to the situation and it consequently is requiring market participants to refocus on achieving and underwriting profit.
However while the need for a change in behavior may be clear it is equally apparent there is significant tension between the desire to increase underwriting discipline versus the impact these actions may have on production.
Having said this by and large companies seem to be accepting the realities of the industry’s challenges and are consistently looking for additional rate while simultaneously continuing to show early signs of an introspective examination of their risk appetite.
In particular it is encouraging to see national carriers taking this path given the meaningful tone they play in setting the stage for the overall market.
Generally speaking the excess market continues to be one of the areas that is the most resistant to change.
It would appear as though there is a misperception held by some that the loss activity that is occurring in the primary layers won’t climb up the coverage tower over time.
A prime example of this would be excess comp.
It is our view that some of the loss activity that the primary comp carriers have been experiencing with time will begin to impact the excess comp market as well.
Having said this perhaps the silver lining is that history would suggest that areas that get the softest for an extended period of time tend to be the ones that offer the best opportunity in a hard market.
Net written premium in the second quarter was $1.19 billion.
This represents an increase of 12.6% compared to the corresponding period in 2011.
All five business segments contributed to the growth although to varying degrees.
The expansion of the specialty and international segments continues to be a result of our market positioning breadth of product offering and relationships as we have discussed in the past.
The strength in the alternative markets was driven by improving market conditions specifically in primary Worker’s Compensation.
The growth in the reinsurance segment primarily in the treaty division we believe is generally a result of [inaudible] becoming increasingly sensitive to financial strength as well as their confidence in the value our team brings beyond financial capacity.
Our regional segment experienced less growth than other segments which is a reflection of the level of competition in their part of the market and their unwavering commitment to underwriting discipline.
The growth in the quarter not only varied by segment but also by operating unit.
Of the 44 units writing business during the period 31 of them grew a total of 23% while 13 declined a total of 14%.
As we have suggested in the past our model allows us to focus on growth when opportunities present themselves and the ability to shrink when necessary.
The company’s rate monitoring report indicated an improvement of approximately 6% compared to the second quarter of 2011.
This represents the sixth quarter in a row that rates have improved and the second quarter in which we have achieved rate increase over rate increase for corresponding periods.
Additionally this is the third quarter in a row where we believe our rate increases have more than outpaced loss trend.
Our rate monitoring for new business showed that we are achieving 4.6% more rate on new versus renewal business.
Finally our renewal retention ratio remains at approximately 80% suggesting as it has in past quarters that the quality of the book is not being sacrificed as we achieve these improved rates.
The group’s loss ratio for the quarter was 63.7.
This result included 2.3 points of storms which primarily impacted our regional segment.
The company’s expense ratio in the second quarter was a 34.5.
This is an improvement of almost half a point compared to the second quarter last year.
This modest progress is a result of the group’s increased earned premium however it is partially offset by costs associated with some of our younger operations as well as some changes in our reinsurance program.
As we have suggested in the past we anticipate a continued gradual improvement in this area as our earned premium builds.
Gene will be going into more detail on this shortly.
When one puts all the pieces together the group delivered a combined ratio of a 98.2 for the quarter.
However when one looks at the business on an accident year basis we believe this reported number is a reasonable indicator.
The company’s balance sheet continues to be in good shape; in spite of the challenges in finding investment yield the average rating of the investment portfolio remains AA-.
Additionally on the other side of the balance sheet we remain more than comfortable with our aggregate MOSS reserves.
On balance the group is performing in line with our expectations given where we are in the cycle.
Rate increases are outpacing loss trends and as a result we expect our underwriting margin to improve as higher earned premium flows through.
While a turn in the market always seems to take longer than one would expect it continues to be comforting that with the many signs that would suggest we are well on our way.
Gene you want to pick up?  Okay thanks.
It was another solid quarter for us with significant improvement over the prior year for both underwriting profits and investment income.
I’ll start by going through the premiums but I really only have a couple points to add to what Rob already said.
First for the international segment premiums were up 22.5% to 208 million with strong growth from both our insurance business and our new reinsurance business in Europe.
And also if you adjust for the impact of foreign exchange international premiums were actually up 30% in constant dollars for the quarter.
Our alternative market premiums were up 21% to 148 million with strong increases for primary Worker’s Compensation business.
Our reinsurance premiums were up 14% to 113 million.
Specialty premiums were up 12% to 454 million but if you look at our 20 specialty companies the way Rob looked at the overall business you’ll see the same focus on growing the profitable business.
We had 14 specialty companies that grew by 31% and 6 companies that declined by 17% total.
And the regional business was up 3% to 268 million.
The overall loss ratio was 63.7% in the quarter which is a decrease of 2.6 points from a year ago.
Catastrophe losses were down significantly to 26 million from 63 million a year ago.
That’s an improvement of 3.9 loss ratio points as we had fewer cat events in the quarter compared to last year and a significant decline in the average loss per event.
We had favorable reserve development of 30 million in the quarter.
That’s 2.6 loss ratio points and it’s up from 25 million in the first quarter of this year.
Most of the favorable reserve development in the quarter was related to the specialty and reinsurance segments and was primarily for accident years 2005 through 2010.
The accident year loss ratio before catastrophes was 64% unchanged from a year ago.
On an accident year basis there’s only about four points of rate increase in the earned premiums so far and that’s offset by our loss cost assumptions which continue to be conservative.
On a policy year basis there’s at least an additional two points of rate increases that will convert to earned premium and underwriting margin that will become more visible in the second half of the year.
The overall expense ratio declined .4 of a point from a year ago to 34.5% with declines of one point each for alternative markets and reinsurance segments and 2.5 points for the reinsurance segment.
The specialty and regional expense ratios were up slightly and that’s due primarily to changes in our reinsurance programs.
These changes include a shift in some programs from quote share reinsurance treaties that had seeded commission to excess of loss structures with no seeded commission.
As I mentioned last quarter following the change in accounting for DAQ we’ve begun to place more focus on the gross written expense ratio which is gross expenses before DAQ divided by gross written premiums.
On that basis which we think is a better measure of our current operating costs the specialty expense ratio and the overall expense ratio declined by 1.2 percentage points from a year ago and we expect that trend to continue.
The overall combined ratio was down three points from a year ago to 98.2 in the quarter and the accident year combined ratio before cats was about a 98.5.
Net investment income was 161 million up 8% from last year.
Income from the core portfolio which includes fixed income equity and over $1 billion in cash was 126 million compared with 128 million a year ago.
We’ve added over 900 million to the core portfolio at new money rates in the past 12 months as a result of strong cash flow as well as the proceeds from a $350 million debt offering in the first quarter of this year.
The annualized yield on the core portfolio was 3.7% and the duration was 3.4 years for the fixed income with bonds.
Income from investment funds was 36 million for the quarter up from 16 million a year ago.
That’s a return of 22% in the current quarter on an average invested balance of approximately 650 million.
Most of the income in the quarter was from funds that invest in energy-related businesses.
Those funds as well as the rest of our investment funds are reported on a one-quarter lag and we expect the returns for the energy funds to be lower in the third quarter.
The merger arbitrage rating account made a modest profit in the second quarter and had an annualized return of 4.2% for the first six months of this year on average invested assets of approximately 315 million.
Real-life gains primarily from the sale of equity securities were 24 million in the quarter and 68 million for the first six months.
In addition to that we had unrealized gains before taxes of almost 100 million since the beginning of the year and have unrealized gains of 750 million at June 30<sup>th</sup> 2012.
Finally I’ll mention just a few other key numbers for the quarter that are in the release.
Cash flow which was 239 million up 48% from a year ago.
Share repurchases we repurchased 1.3 million shares for a total cost of 48 million.
Our ROE which was 11% in the quarter and 12.4% for the first six months.
And book value per share which was up $1.93 or nearly 7% from the beginning of the year.
Thank you Gene.
We were really pretty pleased with the quarter in spite of what seemingly others weren’t.
We run the business as we said as owners.
That means we count catastrophes.
That means we count all kinds of other things.
We look at how we’re doing as far as increasing book value per share.
We think that’s the real measure.
We meet lots of people who say without catastrophe losses? Well it’s great to say but that when you don’t have catastrophe losses you count the high returns that come from that chicken today feathers tomorrow business.
We also think that people who don’t show realized gains and losses over an extended period of time tend now to show the risks inherent in their portfolio and you can take greater risk and never be held accountable for it.
That aside I might mention that we do have substantial unrealized gains in our private equity portfolio which was not in gene’s number of our unrealized gains which as I mentioned before we expect some significant portion will be realized before the end of the year.
I think the biggest news is we’re not worried about the cyclical change in the market.
People that are parsing over 6% or 6.5% or 7 instead of 7.5 are really focusing on the wrong thing.
The cycle is changing.
Clearly the economic activity may well have slowed the pace of rate increases somewhat but the cyclical change is taking place and rate increases continue to move up a pace.
Whether it moves up at 6 or 6.5 is sort of irrelevant.
As it continues though our view still is really unchanged that by the end of the year we’ll be looking at 8 to 9% rate increases and nothing has changed that.
I was really trying to get across a message that this is clearly in any short period of time people’s psychology is impacted and therefor price increases may have a blip for a month but there’s nothing that’s here.
The cycle has changed.
It’s no longer the issue.
So what are the things we sit and look at? Well first of all when we look at our reinvestment rate for our portfolio in spite of us finding niches and whatever we’re just not able to reinvest at as high a rate as we got before.
Therefore while our after-tax returns are probably not much different because municipal returns are better and we bought a fair-sized portfolio of high-quality dividend-paying common stocks the fact is our yield has come down by probably 40 basis points or so and is going to probably come down by another 15 or 20 by the end of the year because cash flow’s coming in and reinvestment rates are not as attractive.
The biggest thing to worry about is our biggest concern.
Second on our list of concerns inflation or no inflation.
We’re making some conservative assumptions and loss costs.
Are we too conservative? Maybe.
But just as important we’re making conservative low-risk assumptions on how far out we go with our investment portfolio.
We’re investing with relatively short duration.
We’re still buying in the five- to seven-year area and keeping our portfolio duration in the area of 3.5 years.
That is because we believe the risk of ultimately having to face inflation is still there.
We don’t want to have a big charge in our portfolio when you mark the market and not be able to get out of our own way.
Therefore we’re being cautious on both sides cautious in our picks for our losses and our expectation there and cautious in keeping our portfolio shorter than we might.
In the short run that costs us money.
In the long run it’s beneficial in our risk-adjusted criteria that we put forward for our shareholders.
We are happy with where we’re going.
We think our returns can continue this way for a while.
But obviously if we don’t see a turnaround in the economy where interest rates start to move up at some point we’re going to have to look and say “Is 15% still the right target?” The key to that target is return it’s investment asset leverage for capital and it’s opportunities.
I think that from our point of view we’re pleased with where we see things going at the moment.
I think that there still are a few people out there doing stupid things on occasion there’s nothing we can do about that.
Most people though are much more responsible.
It’s clear that this is a tough competitive business.
No matter how good an investor you are you still have to have underwriting expertise.
Back a long time ago when I was getting in the business people who were investment managers thought this was the best business to be in including me.
I found out that no matter how good you are at investing money without underwriting expertise this is not a good business.
So I think before I babble on why don’t we take questions.
Tyrone why don’t we open this up for questions?   (Operator instructions).
We have a question from Amit Kumar from Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Thanks and congrats on the quarter.
Just going back to the discussion on I guess new business pricing versus renewal pricing and how the new businesses above the renewal.
I know that in the past you had mentioned that you know you examined the business makes and you revisit the lost pays every 90 days.
Can we just sort of revisit that discussion and maybe tell us how the new business has been you know when you’ve gone back and looked at it has it been performing in line or has it been different?  I guess once again to confirm yes it’s – we do review our reserves every 90 days by operating unit and we cut it slice it and dice it every way that you can image or certainly that we can image.
So far as far as the new business performance from the past several years when we have been having some – some increased growth we are very comfortable with both the pricing and more specifically the margin that that business is providing us.
So there are no early returns that give us reason to pause but in fact the pricing on that new business that we have been writing over the past couple of years actually has turned out to be something different than what we have suggested.
Okay that’s helpful.
I guess the only other question I have is on capital management.
You bought back some stock.
I’m sort of stepping back you know thinking about the industry your discussion on economy.
You’re expectation for I guess 8 or 9% pricing at year end.
If it is softer than that you know should one anticipate more capital management for 2012 or is this a one-shot deal in this quarter?  Nothing is every one shot everything in life is continuous.
Yeah you know when you get married how do they say the ring is continuous everything in life is the same way.
I think that you know one of the things we pay attention to is our premiums to surplus and premium surplus continues to go down as our portfolio continues to do better.
As I mentioned we have very substantial unrealized gains in our private equity portfolio that are not reflected that we expect to occur this year that isn’t something that was in our calculations.
So I think that money that gain is something we may well use to buy back stock or we may instead decide to examine repurchasing our preferred.
You know I think it’s a continuing process.
We don’t reach the conclusion until the moment of do we want to sell the stock now we would probably make that decision this afternoon.
But you know the fact is that it’s opportunistic.
As you know well we try and run the business we think will get the best return to our shareholder and if we found an opportunity we would take advantage of it.
But the reality is our capital account has grown pretty significantly and our (riding) surplus are going down.
So there’s – there’s plenty of opportunity to balance all that out.
So this was only $15 million it was not a you know a huge amount.
Got it.
Thanks.
And don’t buy a crop entity thanks for answers.
I appreciate your advice Amit.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Gregory Locraft of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
I just wanted to again on the private equity I guess harvesting the gains can you frame maybe how much it is and what is it and then actually relate it on the energy loss for the third quarter?  Can you also frame that as well?  It sounds like you know…  There was no energy loss.
We said we thought it would earn less because it varies.
So I don’t think we said it would be an energy loss I think we had the earnings from the funs related to energy will be lower likely in the third quarter than the second quarter.
And you know we don’t – that would be not in the best interest of our shareholders.
But you know I think in the aggregate there’s certainly in excess of $100 million of unrealized gains in that private equity portfolio.
Okay so 100 million of gains that can be used obviously to buy back stock and the preferred by year end?  That’s sort of how you think about things?  No that’s not what I said.
I said that that will – that the gains from the private equity portfolio weren’t in our original calculations in examining what we might do but everything stands alone.
It’s our capital account that’s going to be probably somewhere better than we anticipated and therefore we’re evaluating what and how we want to balance it which includes whether we call – well we wouldn’t buy it back we would call the preferred which would take up 250 million or whatever dollars or buy back stock.
You know it’s a constant balancing act.
Okay great.
And then the last question is just I think back in the first quarter on the February timeframe when we did the fourth quarter call you mentioned that the year was going to be backend loaded.
And I’m just wondering are these sort of – is this the ROE we should be thinking about and expecting or how do you stand today versus that comment relative to [inaudible]? Well what I was trying – the explanation you’re talking about was when I tried to explain to people how earned premium comes in.
In other words an increase in price comes in from an accounting point of view accountants will probably argue with me but let’s just say 12.5% in the quarter.
You write the business 25/25/25 and 12.5 in the fourth quarter and so price increases come in later on.
So in fact here’s the second quarter we’re getting price increases from the second quarter of last year the third quarter the fourth quarter the first quarter and the second quarter.
So as you move out by the fourth quarter you’ll get 100% of the pricing increases from the first second and the third quarter.
You will get 12.5% of those price increases will be earned from the first quarter and 12.5 in the fourth quarter whereas in this quarter give or take it’s going to be 4%.
And if you said you’ll be at 8% by the fourth quarter you’ll probably have 7% give or take in the fourth quarter of improvement in the earned premium.
So it’s backend loaded assuming price increases are tending as they are.
Right okay.
And then I guess maybe perhaps just to clarify because I’m – so really what we should be expecting is material margin improvement on an accident year ex-cap basis starting 3Q 4Q?  I mean you’re showing it now it’s just the year over years are going to be looking – we’re going to be getting hundreds of basis points of improvement starting now?  I’m sorry starting third quarter.
Well you’re choosing hundreds the answer is I think that we would expect – I couldn’t persuade my accounting people to give me specifics they were so difficult to deal with then.
But the answer is if you said that you’ll get 2.5 to 3.5% improvement in dollars of our earned premium over loss cost by the fourth quarter that would be a reasonable assumption.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Vinay Misquith of Evercore.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong> Hi good morning.
Looking at the margins once again this quarter…  I'm sorry it’s not clear could you… Inc.</strong>  Hi sorry.
Yeah now can you hear me?  Okay great.
Yeah that’s great.
Inc.</strong> So this quarter the earned rate increases are plus 4% and I remind myself that historically you’ve had a 2 to 3% loss cost trend.
So just curious why margins were roughly flat this year versus the prior?  Because we had more pessimistic people and they were more overwhelming and I didn’t fight as hard as I should have.
So you know they were more cautious but the answer is you’re trying – and I understand why we’re trying to split hairs on whether it was 3 or 4 and we look at it every quarter where we think loss cost trends and honestly the economy being a little slower than we thought will end up having us review loss cost trends and me may end up saying hey well we’re a little cautious so we may go from 4 to 3 or from 3.75 to 3.
Okay?  So it’s a continuing process.
So that optimism is not just in price increase or the rate of adoption and speed of price it’s also in expectation of loss costs.
Inc.</strong> [Inaudible].
So I you know I think we were a little more cautious in the second quarter than we may well be in the third but that’s not a promise it’s trying to give you an understanding that you know this is real-time stuff we’re not talking about you know - I understand you have to invest day to day but we’re looking at this and we look at our numbers and look at developments and we have all these actuaries fighting amongst themselves.
You know one dies every quarter from fights and we have to replace him.
So the fact is that it’s not always the one I want to die that dies.
I’ve got a few of those in mind.
But the fact is that it really is a continuing process and I you know and I think that when I say I wasn’t pushing harder the fact is how we all feel and how optimistic or pessimistic we are influences that short-term decision and as we get to year end we’re trying to true it up as much here it is as we can and I think that we were a little more cautious in the second quarter than the economy ended up warranting.
Inc.</strong> Fair enough.
And then on the pricing I mean on the related comment on pricing so about 8 to 9% by year end.
Just curious as to what your views are for next year and also given the fact that the economy’s weaker?  Well I have one of those magic eight balls in front of me coincidentally.
I have – they heard your question and I turn it and it says most likely.
So I guess that means it’s most likely to continue going up at the same rate.
No I think that – I think that we would expect pricing to continue increasing at sort of the same kind of pace you know 8 to 10% rate 8 to 9% rate you know if you used 8% as a target that would be what we think.
And I think at that point you’re starting to really move into very positive territory.
But understand one thing there’s two issues that the world has to understand; investment income is going to start to really hurt a lot of people a lot of people.
People who are in the auto business and invested short term with a 1.5 or 2-year duration are going to get you know virtually no investment income unless they change the duration of their portfolios.
We have been good at it it’s something we’re pretty good at.
So… Inc.</strong> You mentioned on the call that the investment deal is coming down correct?  Yes.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then one final thing on the alternative.
You mentioned that [inaudible] bought 100 million of …  No I said at least 100 million.
Inc.</strong> Sure.
Do you expect that to be released or sold in the second half of this year or is that just going to remain in sort of unrealized and not appear in the income…  We would expect it’s going to – at least some significant part of that is going to happen this year.
Inc.</strong> Okay that’s good.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thanks so just first question I guess is trying to understand Bill your comment in the press release about the economy and the impact on pricing.
And obviously the economy and exposures a direct relationship there but I just want to understand just a little bit more color on that comment more follow-up.
I was trying to explain to people that as the economy is under sort of more pressure this is just not a smooth world.
We're not independent of the rest of the world.
Prices are still going up.
Nothing has fundamentally changed.
However we don’t really see an acceleration quite as quickly as we thought before.
We still think by the end of the year we'll  be at that 89%.
If you would have asked me where we would have been  in the second quarter I would have said 6.5 to 7.
We were at 6 so it was just slower than I thought.
The psychology just isn't as powerful as I'd like it to be.
But no directional change.
You know it's one month people get depressed and feel pessimistic.
Honestly I think we're pretty much past that at the moment.
And I think you're starting to see a little bit more positive attitude.
Inc.</strong> All right thank you and just trying to understand a couple things too and maybe this isn't right.
But as I understand it probably the U.S.
instead of outside particularly in casualty and your international business has been growing I'm sure as you added folks and are writing new types of business.
But just trying to understand kind of growth in international.
And then on the flip side regional which as I understand is mostly U.S.
has been growing slower than the rate change that you've been talking about for the last few quarters.
So just trying to understand maybe the dichotomy is not the right word but just trying to understand maybe the tradeoff between those two.
Thanks.
First of all growth in new businesses in Europe has helped that and Australia and Asia as well as Brazil and Latin America.
Some other parts of Europe have also grown.
But it's been driven by a couple of particular things.
Our syndicate employees and our re-insurance business in London is at the – I think that the regional business has been terrific with price increases.
And they have not grown as much.
Their price increases have been more than their growth which obviously means we've lost some business.
That's a segment of the business that is more competitive at the moment.
But we're really pleased that in the places where the world is more competitive the people are more disciplined.
So that's why it's sort of not a uniform picture every place.
Rob do you want to add to that?  No I think that generally speaking you've covered it.
I think there are parts outside of the United States where there are really significant opportunities as there are parts outside of the United States where it's overwhelmingly competitive.
Hence the point earlier that we have some operations that are growing.
We have some operations that are shrinking into paint with such a broad brush to set such as suggesting.
All markets outside of the United States that are more competitive or less competitive I think is a slippery slope.
As far as the regional companies go as I had mentioned in my remarks it has been a little bit surprising to us how that piece of the marketplace has remained a bit more competitive at the same time.
As suggested a few moments ago our underwriting discipline and focus on profitability is such that we are prepared to effectively shed policy count as it was also suggested a moment ago in order to achieve the rate that we think is required.
Inc.</strong> Great thanks and then just one last one I guess is and Bill kind of your comments before about margins through the rest of the year and earning premiums through.
I mean if we were to kind of fast forward to the end of the year what do you think is going to have a more pronounced impact on margins and earnings?  Is it the reduction in the loss ratio or the bigger premium base against which you're spreading your expenses?  I think that the loss ratio will have a bigger impact by the fourth quarter.
I think by the time you get to next year you will start to see a real benefit from the premium.
We are also you have to remember the constant balancing of what kinds of re-insurance you buy and how that impacts back to expense ratio.
It's pretty significant.
So I think there's a lot of moving parts that are in there.
Inc.</strong> Great thank you very much for your answers.
Thank you next question is from Bob Farnam of KBW.
Your line is open.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong>  Heading back to the European business I'm just trying to get a feel for with your strong credit rating is that really giving you a lot of opportunity in the European space?  I think it gives us a lot of opportunity.
Every opportunity has its risks.
And we emphasize the risk adjusted return.
And I think that we see lots of opportunities to grow and enhance our business.
And we're cautiously examining those opportunities.
Rob spends a fair amount of time over there looking for opportunities.
And he's cautiously optimistic that something will come along but cautious is the by word.
When you don’t know how something is going to come out it's a pretty critical assumption and there's a lot of leverage in these things.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay and can you just shifting topics your liability duration relative to prior years has your business mix changed and is that coming down or is that staying?  No our liability ratio is basically unchanged.
It's about four years.
Our assets are about three and a half give or take.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Right okay thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our next question if from Meyer Shields of Stifel Nicolaus.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong>  Thanks good morning everyone.
Bill just a question.
If you're making a capital allocation decision deciding between a dollar profit in the investment funds and a dollar profit in underwriting is there any difference in terms of how you would evaluate that?  Well I think from my point of view the question is investment allocations I can look at the same decision every day.
Building a better business is always a more attractive thing for me.
So I would always invest in expanding my business than an investment in something else.
However the uncertainty of an investment for instance the uncertainty of expanding the business is certainly not the same.
The long and the short of it is we always want to build our business.
We always want to expand our business.
And every opportunity that we see that lets us create long term value we want to seize it.
And the tradeoff you're always making is you want to grab everyone that's really attractive.
And we for instance haven't bought back our long term trust preferred even though it's a lot better return than the things we're buying because it suits our capital structure.
So that would be a good example of it's always there.
I can always buy it back.
Don’t use my capital resources for the moment to do that.
So that would be a good example.
Inc.</strong> Okay sounds great.
And Gene if I can turn to the reserves I guess I was going to ask for the releases by segment.
And also in the first quarter you talked about how maybe the $25 million in reserve releases was not a good run rate.
Is the second quarter a better approximation?  First we don’t give out the reserve releases by segment for any of these calls but we'll do that in our queue.
Second I don’t think it's any better run rate.
I mean that number fluctuates quite a bit as the year evolves.
We get more and more insight into how the current underwriting year is performing as well as the older years and things change.
So I wouldn’t assume that's necessarily a run rate either.
Inc.</strong> Okay thank you.
Thank you your next question is from Jay Cohen of Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Thanks my question was answered.
Thank you very much though.
Thank you there are no further questions in the queue right now.
I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Berkley for any closing remarks.
Okay I think the one thing I want to remind people which I think is so important as times are changing cycles probably those people that followed our stock for a long time remember me talking about it in 2003 2004 and on.
And that is paid losses are the only thing no one can fool with.
Paid losses are a certainty.
They can vary quarter to quarter with storms and with other things.
But if you look at paid losses to encourage premiums or better yet paid losses to earned premium including loss adjustment expense that trend is a really good indicator for what our company is doing.
I would urge you to keep track of that for all the companies you follow us included.
You can't hide from paid losses.
There's no except for.
There's no maybes.
It's a great comparator to see how companies are doing.
Simple number define number.
I thank all of you.
We are really excited.
We think the business is great right now.
And we're very pleased.
Good day and welcome to W.R.
Berkley Corporation’s Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
The speakers’ remarks may contain forward-looking statements.
Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words including: without limitation believes expects or estimates.
We caution you that such forward-looking statements should not be regarded as a representation by us that the future plans estimates or expectations contemplated by us will in fact be achieved.
Please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 and our other filings made with the SEC for a description of the business environment in which we operate and the important factors that may materially affect our results.
W.R.
Berkley Corporation is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any such obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
William R.
Berkley.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much.
Good morning.
We were very pleased with our quarter.
We were especially pleased with the direction everything seems to be moving in.
And before I go on about my enthusiasm I’ll let Rob talk about the year’s results – the quarter and the year’s results and then Gene will talk about the numbers.
And then the real enthusiasm will come through.
Go ahead Rob.
Thank you for the introduction.
Good morning.
The fourth quarter was a continuation of the story that has been unfolding for the casualty market over the past few years.
Growing concerns among certain market participants over prior year loss reserve development continue to serve as a catalyst for a change in behavior.
Additionally there would appear to be an increasing awareness of the impact that diminishing investment income is having on the industry’s economic model.
While this macro situation is widely discussed the sense of urgency in tackling these issues seems to vary from carrier to carrier.
Having said this there is an ever-growing percentage of the market that is pursuing rate in an effort to remedy the situation.
On the other hand the property market certainly did not have a business as usual quarter.
Hurricane Sandy provided a reminder that bad things happen and on occasion in a very big way.
Once again the industry received a wake-up call with regards to the imperfections of both cat modeling as well as local building codes as we endure the impact that a large tropical storm can have on a region.
Though many companies managed to make a profit in the fourth quarter in spite of Sandy the question remains is the industry truly achieving an appropriate risk adjusted return for this product given the level of volatility it assumes? Workers’ compensation remains one of the lines of business where the market is most aggressive in seeking rate.
Having said this given how soft the market had gotten for comp along with loss trend and lower investment returns it would be premature to view this currently as a green light product.
The excess casualty market is also showing early signs of a return to underwriting discipline as meaningful rate increases are beginning to be attainable.
On the other hand there continues to be naive optimism in much of the professional market where rate increases remain far too modest.
Additionally the lack of rate increases in both the marine and parts of the property market remain surprising in light of the recent loss activity.
The company’s rate monitoring of renewal business for the fourth quarter indicated an improvement of 6.5% over the corresponding period in 2011.
Our new business relativity was 1.09% which indicates our new business is priced 9% stronger than our renewal business.
All five business segments contributed to this improvement in rate though not equally as the domestic insurance segments ranged from 5% to 11%.
Also worth noting this was the eighth quarter in a row the group achieved additional rate and consequently the fourth quarter in a row where rate on rate was obtained.
While the 6.5% was slightly less than what we achieved in the third quarter due primarily to mix of business it is generally in line with what we have achieved in 2012.
We remained convinced the market has maintained its pricing momentum and it has been further confirmed by what we have seen so far with our January 1 business.
As in the past we continue to believe we’re obtaining this improved rate without jeopardizing the quality of our book which is evidenced in part by our renewal retention ratio which continues to remain at approximately 80%.
When one puts these two pieces of information together it clearly supports the idea that underwriting margin is improving.
Net written premium for the quarter was $1.228 billion.
This represents an increase of 13% compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
All five business segments contributed to this growth which ranged from 20% to 8%.
More specifically 34 of the 45 underwriting operations grew in the quarter.
When one looks more closely at the growth you see 6.5 points associated with rate 6 points associated with exposure and 0.5 points with audit premium.
The company’s loss ratio for the quarter was at 64.6 points which includes 3.2 points associated with Sandy.
While four out of our five segments were impacted by Sandy the majority of the loss was in our international and reinsurance segments.
The expense ratio for the period was at 33.5% which is an improvement of 0.8%.
As we have suggested in the past we anticipate this trend is – we anticipated excuse me this trend due to our increasing earned premium.
When one puts the picture together you end up with a combined of a 98.1%.
However when one adjusts for storms as well as reserve development we believe the company is running at about a 96.5% which is an improvement of approximately 3 points when compared with the fourth quarter last year.
This improving trend should continue at higher rates and increased volume continues to be reflective in our earned premium.
The balance sheet the company’s balance sheet remains particularly well positioned to take advantage of this improving environment.
This is demonstrated not just by the high quality of our investment portfolio but also the strength of our reserves again confirmed by 24 consecutive quarters of positive development.
So far it appears as though our 2010 and 2011 accident year picks are holding.
With every passing quarter it is becoming more apparent we are entering a hard market.
The number of carriers seeking broad rate increases continues to grow and the minority of companies that continue to act irresponsibly is a dwindling population.
While it is true we have not yet reached the point where there is low-hanging fruit it has been many years since we as an organization have been so encouraged by the market.
Thank you Rob.
Gene you want to pick up please? Okay.
Well in spite the impact of Sandy we were able to report significant growth in our net income for the quarter due to higher investment income substantial realized gains as well as improvement in our core underwriting margins before catastrophe losses.
I’ll start with underwriting.
As Rob mentioned premiums were up 13% to just over $1.2 billion and the growth was pretty evenly spread across the group with Alternative Markets up 20% International 16% Reinsurance 15% Specialty 11% and Regional 8%.
Our underwriting profits were $24 million in the quarter compared with $34 million a year ago and the overall combined ratio was up 1.1 percentage points to 98.1%.
The increase in the combined ratio was the result of our losses from storm Sandy.
Although relatively modest considering the size of the industry loss our net loss from Sandy of $40 million before tax added 3.2 percentage points to our overall loss ratio for the quarter.
We had significant reinsurance recoveries from both our per risk reinsurance treaties as well as our catastrophe reinsurance treaties.
The losses by segment are in the earnings release but one thing to note is that we allocate reinsurance recoveries to specific business units based in part on the unit share of the cost of the treaty so as a result recoveries by company and segment are not directly proportional to the gross losses incurred and that’s why you see relatively smaller Sandy losses for the Specialty and Regional segments.
Our underlying loss ratio before catastrophes and reserve releases declined 2 percentage points from a year ago to 63% due to the impact of year-over-year price increases on underwriting margins.
As Rob said we expect that trend to continue as business we’ve already written at higher prices is earned over the next four quarters.
Favorable reserve development was $20 million or 1.6 loss ratio points in the quarter.
That’s down from Q4 of 2011 but right in line with reserve releases for full-year 2012 which averaged $26 million per quarter.
Approximately half of the favorable development in the fourth quarter was attributable to the Reinsurance segment.
Our expense ratio improved by 0.8 percentage points to 33.5% again as a result of price increases and growth in premiums.
The Alternative Markets Regional and International segments reported lower expense ratios with International down 6 points as recently started companies have achieved more scale.
The Specialty and Regional expense ratios were up slightly due to higher cedant reinsurance costs and higher commissions including contingent commission accruals.
Our net reserves increased $91 million in the quarter to $8.4 billion at year-end and the paid loss ratio decreased by 2 percentage points to 57.0%.
Investment income was $152 million up $35 million or 30% from a year ago.
The increase was due to investment funds which earned $27 million in the quarter compared with a loss of $12 million a year ago with stronger earnings this quarter from both energy funds and real estate funds.
Income from the remainder of the portfolio was down $4 million or 3% to $125 million in the quarter.
And the annualized yield on the overall portfolio was 4.1% for the quarter and 4.0% for all of 2012.
We also reported realized gains of $116 million during the quarter including a gain of $68 million from the sale of one of our private equity investments.
At year-end 84% of our portfolio was invested in cash and fixed income securities with a duration of 3.4 years and an average credit quality of AA-.
The pre-tax unrealized gain on securities that are carried at fair value was $797 million at December 31.
We paid out $1.09 in dividends during the quarter including a special dividend of $1 per share in December and we also repurchased 170 shares of our own stock at an average cost of $37 per share.
176 000 shares.
Sorry.
So that adds up to a net income of $165 million and annualized return on equity of 16.7%.
That gives us an ROE of 12.9% for all of 2012.
That’s 2 points higher than full-year 2011 and just 2 points shy of our long-term goal of 15%.
Thanks Gene.
Well as I’ve said innumerable times this is a long-term business.
We saw these changes taking place and beginning to evolve a while ago.
We’re seeing the fruits of our investment in new start-ups that have taken place over a number of years.
The benefits of start-ups are twofold.
One as opposed to buying something you don’t get someone else’s problems.
And two you don’t get intangible assets on your balance sheet you get to tax deduct the expenses of building the business and you don’t have carry forward issues as you go forward.
We’re seeing the rewards of that and we expect to continue to see that.
We’re very enthusiastic about going forward where we see changes.
While various people may say they had in rate increases of 5% or 7% or whatever first of all everyone has to keep in mind price increases start from whatever pricing level you have and different people have different strategies to acquire new business to grow their business and no one should try and get this to a fine point that the difference between a price increase of 6% or a price increase of 7% is material over the short run.
We think that we push the market as best we can every day and most of our companies are prepared to not write business if they can’t get what they think is an adequate pricing level.
Because of that some of our companies have grown while others have in fact not grown at all.
We think that’s the strategy and the strength of our enterprise and our structure.
We continue to seek out and to some extent find new and unique investment opportunities that allow us to get better returns.
We expect some of our private equity investments will result in further realized gains this year and we have found some new things to invest in that we think will give us subsequent returns because in fact you’re always investing for the two or three year ahead future as you look for those kinds of opportunities.
So we believe that this is just the beginning of improved results as earned premium reflects those price increases.
We think that it’ll continue and it needs to because in fact a lot of people will be surprised at how much returns will be impacted by the current lower rates.
If you’re in the reinsurance business you need seven points on pricing just to offset a 100 basis points decline in investment returns.
And if you’re in the standard markets price increases have to be three or four points.
So you not only have to make up the decline in prices since 2008 but you have to go further than that to offset the investment income.
So people haven’t yet fully recognized how much they have to raise prices.
But it’s beginning to happen and people understand that whereas in the past a 95% combined would give you a good result today you’ve got to get that combined and – down into the area of 90%.
So we continue to work towards that improved combined ratio.
We think we’re on our way.
We expect that we’ll see continued improvement as our earned premium reflects price increases and we’re extremely optimistic.
With that Mercy do you want to come on and we’ll take questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Josh Shanker from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Hi everyone.
In terms of looking at the combined ratio compared to where it was two years ago before the price increases it’s not yet materially better.
I know that it takes time for written to become earned but is that happening more slowly for any reason? I mean we would’ve – I would’ve thought it would be better now given the rate increases that you’ve reported?  Well I think that first of all you have Sandy in there this year...
Well even if you take the cats out I would take the cats and the development out and look at I guess...
Go ahead.
I was just going to add putting – if you take the one-timers out Josh I think that things are improving perhaps not as quickly as some would expect but in part that’s a result of quite frankly how we pick our design picks as we discussed in past calls.
Because of our sensitivity to trends and inflation and things of that nature it’s not a very – it’s not just a straightforward simple formula how things will flow through.
So just because you get x points of rate it’s not – this can completely flow through.
Depending on the line of business in the product we make certain assumptions as to how we see future loss costs.
So is it going to come through? Yes.
Is it going to come through more and more as the earned premium builds as you suggested? Yes.
But as again we’ve suggested in the past we don’t want to declare victory prematurely on our business just – and let the full rate increase flow through because again we like to err a bit on the side of caution when it comes to our picks.
I think you also have to recognize that there was more positive development when you go back to 2010 for instance by a significant amount.
I think the positive development in 2010 was sort of four points better than it was and so while the loss ratio looked the same in fact there was really four points of more positive development in 2010 than there was in this year.
So as there becomes less positive development the current accident year is picking up that slack.
Well if I look at x development in cats I have a 64.1% loss ratio for 2010 and – for the full year and for 2012 was 63.6% about 50 basis points of improvement.
I don’t know maybe my numbers aren’t quite right there.
I don’t have the sheet right in front of me.
It’s not quite right but it’s directionally right.
I think that it was slightly better than that but the answer is it has not fully gone in.
I think we’re also probably being a little more conservative in our loss picks at this point in time because we’re more concerned than – candidly than seems needed in the current environment.
We’re probably more concerned with inflation than many of our peers.
Great.
And then on...
Our current loss picks are probably a bit more conservative.
And then on your optimism you’re as optimistic as ever although I think at this point you would have thought that rates could be approaching 10% on renewals given what you’ve said in the past.
Are there spoilers out that are preventing you from reaching -?  I think what I said is in 2013 I expect the price increases to be in the 8% to 10% range.
I think that – I’m hoping that that’s the case.
I think that no business that’s led by a pessimist generally succeeds and that is my view yes.
I think there’s something to that Bill.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Amit Kumar from Macquarie.
Your line is open.
And good morning.
Good morning.
I guess it’s related to the last question on pricing increases.
Maybe just talk about what you might be seeing for 2013? I mean do you see that 6.5% already turning to sort of 7.5% 8%-ish or just because this is the fourth quarter you’ve gotten rate-over-rate? Maybe just talk about the directional trends until now.
I’ll make one comment and then I’ll turn it over to Rob.
I do think that one thing we saw differently than some other people we did see better prices in October-November than we did in December.
December was a more competitive pricing month.
So it’s hard to look – it still goes month-to-month how competitive things are.
Rob do you want to comment?  Yeah well I guess just to add on to what you said a moment ago it’s not unusual.
You see people trying to make their year-end budgets.
So they give the full court press if you will in December.
Having said that in spite of that full court press the environment was still one where it was pushing for more rate.
Our general view is that you will see the marketplace looking for as much of a rate increase or more during 2013.
Trying to predict with such a fine brush if you will down to what some might suggest are basis points that’s a pretty slippery slope.
But generally speaking there’s nothing that leads us to believe that 2013 will not be a continuation of what we saw in 2012.
And it’s more likely that rates will continue to build if you will from where they are rather than erode or diminish.
That’s interesting.
I guess other question is also on margin improvement.
My sense is I guess what you’re saying is that if loss costs remain at similar levels simplistically we should at least see a 300 basis point 300-plus basis point improvement for 2013.
Is that – maybe it’s too simplistic but is that fair?  I think that we would expect that overall the improvement in margins 2013 to 2012 should be in that level.
Okay that’s all I have.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vinay Misquith from Evercore Partners.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
The first question is on the expense ratio.
Been just curious we saw some expense leverage this year.
Do you expect to see more of that in 2013 versus 2012? Has the build out of the platform really been finished in 2012?  I think that yes you’ll see more expense benefits as time goes on.
As profitability increases there is more both incentive payments to producers and to management but we think that is – that overall the expense ratio should come down significantly.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
The second question is on growth opportunities.
We’ve heard from a few other players maybe one other specialty player that maybe there is some more business coming into the excess and surplus lines market.
Have you seen that trend increasing recently?  This is Rob.
The answer is that we are seeing more submissions coming in whether – and I would suggest that the specialty market population is growing.
But it certainly has not reached anything approaching what traditionally we’ve seen in a hard market.
So you can see as throughout – we’ve commented on occasions throughout 2012 you can see that ground swell beginning to build but I don’t think that we’ve fully hit our stride yet but it’s coming.
Vinay I think that if we were – if you were to ask us what is a little different about this market change I think that’s one of the things that we haven’t seen as quickly as we would have thought appropriate for our expectations and our look at the market.
And that really is we would have thought that there would be a lot more business flowing into that specialty market than seems to be flowing into that market at the moment.
But it’s coming but it’s coming much slower than we would have expected.
Sure.
Fair enough.
One last numbers question.
Since the business mix has changed a little bit just curious what your normalized cat loss ratio should be for the year?  For 2012 or...
No for 2013.
2013.
It’s pretty hard to say but historically it’s been around two points two and a half points.
Yeah I don’t think our business mix has changed so materially.
I think that we do have a little more exposure on a gross basis but we have been pretty good at buying strategically and spending a lot of our own money on it – reinsurance.
I mean one of the things that I find interesting is that people always say if it weren’t for cats we would have had x result.
But in fact the reason we have better results is because we buy reinsurance and it impacts our results every year because we pay premiums for it.
Right.
So I think in fact the two and a half points probably three points on the outside would be what we would expect and we wouldn’t think it would be much more than that.
The rest of our cat gross exposure is in fact in our reinsurance line – reinsurance purchases.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
Yes.
Our next question comes from Meyer Shields from Stifel Nicolaus.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Rob I take your point about not reading too much into small fluctuations in terms of the average renewal premium rate increases.
But I guess one thing that stands out is that at least in the last hard market you did see what was very clear acceleration from quarter to quarter in terms of the magnitude of rate increases and I was wondering if you could talk about why you think we’re not seeing just more obvious acceleration?  Well I think it depends on when you choose the point in time that the market started to turn.
If you choose the fourth quarter if you will of 2001 then that’s one thing.
If you look back to in our opinion when the market really started to turn which was late 2000 I think you would see again much more of an incremental building or a gradual ground swell that came about.
So I think that it is likely that you’re going to see the momentum build.
Will it be a perfectly smooth curve? No I don’t think so but historically I’m not sure if it’s ever been.
Okay.
And Bill...
Obviously if we have – just to add to that I think if we have a noteworthy event that could be a shot in the arm if you will that will change the circumstance.
And I also think as I suggested in my comments and others I suspect have discussed the impact of investment income it seems to be something that everyone in the industry is talking about but very very few are actually contemplating that when they think about how they price their product.
I think that possibly could be the second shoe to drop.
I think that I might add that the cycle for the E&amp;S business especially was down much harder.
So the bottom of the cycle was harder so you really needed those tremendous increases in prices just to get back to equilibrium.
This cycle was not down as hard and you didn’t have what I call a fear event take place; that fear event still hasn’t taken place.
It was the World Trade Center that was the fear event.
At the bottom of the cycle things started moving up they moved up and then they started to turn back down again.
But the fear event didn’t take place.
It was merely the issues that caused the normal cyclical swings of the business.
Okay that makes perfect sense.
I wanted to ask quickly about the recent hire for southeastern standard lines.
Is there something that you see particularly attractive about that market or is it just an area of growth?  I think all of the above.
We think it’s an interesting part of the country which has performed reasonably well and has good future potential.
We also philosophically have a view as to how big a regional company can be from a territory before it really is no longer a regional company.
And we concluded that Georgia was a state that we wanted to have more of a presence in.
And we wanted to have our base if you will to serve the surrounding states more local as far as its proximity to those.
So it was really a strategic decision a combination of the talent that was available how we view the marketplace and our view as to need to be somewhat local in a region of the country truly to have a differentiator as far as your business model.
Let me go off on a slight tangent and say we have a different view than most of our competitors who have a business and then think they grow by expanding and extending and then you get to be an almost national company instead of a regional company or a specialty company that keeps adding new pieces to it.
As opposed to our view which is you keep small pieces that are close to the customer close to their specialty with great expertise that you don’t have to succeed by having a bigger and bigger company.
Those aren’t our views.
So we were in some of the states around Georgia.
Georgia is a big state where there’s lots of opportunities and we felt like this was a real opportunity.
And we didn’t want a – have one of our companies from three states away decide to move in and be another non-local company there.
We think that’s the strategy to keep units small keep them close to the customer in everything we do.
And then we think that’s one of the core ways we differentiate ourselves.
The guy who is making all of the decisions is going to be in that marketplace.
Okay fantastic.
Thanks so much.
Our next question comes from Brian Meredith from UBS.
Your line is open.
Yeah thanks good morning.
Good morning Brian.
Good morning guys.
A couple questions here.
First one Rob Bill I wondered if you could talk a little bit about what you’re seeing with respect to loss trends? I mean you mentioned that inflation is somewhat of a concern for you.
Is it still running kind of where you said it was in the third quarter and what gives you some concerns about potential trend acceleration?  If we break trend down maybe into medical versus everything else Brian medical continues to be I think a concern for all industry participants.
As far as everything else trend still seems to be somewhat benign but we have a general concern as to where inflation is going and we think that we will not be completely inflated from that.
Obviously it was referenced a few moments ago as it relates to the investment portfolio but that clearly impacts us on the risk-bearing side of the business how we price our products and how we reserve for it.
So again what we’ve experienced so far doesn’t necessarily give us a big reason to pause.
It’s more as we look out the front windshield and see what may be coming our way.
But we feel as though it is prudent not necessarily to assume that future trend will necessarily be what we’ve experienced to date.
Brian this is Bill.
I think that to add to that as Rob said when you look out the front window you try and look ahead.
And for us first and foremost insurance companies in spite of what people talk about do better in inflationary environments than in non-inflationary environments.
So we’re not afraid of them but there’s both two things that impact it and you have to be prepared for them.
The risk of a fixed income portfolio with a longer duration and the risk of an investment portfolio that can’t keep up giving you returns.
So I think that what we are trying to say is we’re trying to be careful in establishing our reserves assuming that within the life expectancy of that duration which is three and a half years give or take that we’ve considered that sometime in that period inflation will come home to roost and we want to be sure we don’t have an adverse surprise there.
And the other thing is in our bond portfolio we’re going to just constantly be watching that duration.
The duration has come down over the past couple of years a little bit.
And it’s likely to come down a little more as we look out.
So if we do nothing as far as cash flow and reinvestment our duration comes down from 3.4 years to 2.4 years.
It may not come down that much but our duration is clearly going to shorten up over the next 12 to 18 months.
We think inflation is out there and while we don’t know when we think it’s clearly going to be out there.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And then next question Bill on the 15% ROE target which you hope to achieve here I’m just curious how likely do you think that is achievable given that there’s a lot of other companies out there that have basically lowered their ROE expectations in the current interest rate environment.
They’re happy with either high single-digit or a low teen return on equity.
Do you think you’re going to face some resistance there? Do you think it’s – you can still achieve it in this rate environment?  Well if you lower your target you’re surely not going to achieve it.
We believe that it’s achievable and we’d rather have that as our goal and our target and fall short than say we’re going to settle for a lower target.
It is going to be tough with this interest rate environment.
There’s no question about it.
Every single person on the management team talks about it.
They understand it.
Clearly we did a little better at that with our 12.9% return this year.
And we think that in 2013 we’ll be able to do better than that.
Whether we get to 15% or not I can’t tell you.
But everyone in this company is really cognizant of it.
Our long-term incentive plan that was established five years ago paid out.
It only paid out at about 57% because we didn’t hit that 15% return.
So – but if you don’t meet the standard lowering the standard doesn’t help.
We believe that for us to achieve outstanding results for our shareholders we ought to keep that target.
Now that’s not to say we think we’ll make it every year.
But I certainly wouldn’t lower it consequentially.
Great.
Thanks.
Then Bill just one quickly could you give us your thoughts on what you think is going to be happening with interest rates here the next 12 months to 24 months?  Well in the shorter end of that I think interest rates are not going to move up very much.
In the long run I think you’re going to probably see interest rates move up.
But I think you have so many variables in the concept of one world between Europe Japan China and the U.S.
it’s no longer this forecast of what’s happening in America.
It’s really a much more of a global picture and currencies trade so freely.
So I don’t see anything happening that’s going to cause interest rates to move up in the next eight to 12 months.
I think as you go out further than that I would expect interest rates to move up.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jay Cohen from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Couple of questions.
I guess one question on the Alternative Markets segment.
It looks like the loss ratio there was quite a bit lower than it had been running I’m wondering if there’s anything unusual there?  Yeah well that’s a segment that’s been achieving the highest rates across the group.
It’s predominantly workers’ compensation.
So we’re seeing more of that benefit come through there than we are in the other segments.
Got it.
The alternative market is primarily -  Workers’ comp.
Workers’ comp and that’s where the biggest rate increase has been.
Got it.
Can you also tell us how the arbitrage funded this quarter?  Essentially it broke even for the quarter.
Okay.
And then lastly Bill you had mentioned that you are finding newer places to invest if you could talk about what you see some of those opportunities are?  Well obviously I have talked retrospectively because I’m not – the best and clearest example is for about three months we found mezzanine mortgages that were opportunities because they were loan to value and still in the range of first mortgages.
So a mez mortgage where loan to value was under 60% where we could get 6% or more.
But that only lasts for a short period of time so we put to work let’s just say $100 million or $150 million and the market changed and that rate came down to 5%.
And there are other things like that where we provide debt financing in small quantities for special projects that aren’t so big to attract big investors but we can step in get done and do it for particular funds that have special purpose vehicles where we’re very well collateralized 2:1 3:1 4:1 5:1 and give us the opportunity.
People who have lots of time to do that they don’t have to wait for us.
They don’t need us.
So we’re continuously finding those things.
The biggest problem Jay is that they come in $50 million or $100 million pieces and it’s very difficult to find out how quickly they’re going to last but you have to be cautious and not put so much money in any one of them at any given moment in time.
So these smaller pieces give us diversification but by the time we go for the second piece other people have found it or they found other people.
So it’s a constant hunt for opportunities.
And it continues and we’ve got a couple of new ones that we’re just doing but obviously I’m not anxious to talk about them because I’m not anxious to make the investment cycle shorter than it is.
It’s short enough already.
Yeah yeah.
I guess the other issue for the investment income is that you’re shortening duration that’s got to put some additional pressure on the fixed income portfolio.
I think I said we will take advantage of the shorter duration as we see this move ahead but I’m not expecting that certainly for the next six months.
Got it.
But I think that we will somewhere in the 12- to 24-months period try to do that and it will also depend on how many of these other opportunities I can find to give us some benefits.
Got it.
I think we sit here and say that in the short run inflation is a trouble.
In the long run inflation is a benefit.
Knowing when you pull the trigger to protect yourself for the short run is a critical management responsibility.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Yes sir.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from Amit Kumar from Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Just a sort of a clarification on the prior discussion on margin then we were talking about that 300 basis point – at least 300 basis point improvement did that also include an improvement in expense ratio or is that in addition to that?  That was what we thought would be our gross improvement.
It could be – we could benefit more but you have to understand there is also a negative impact from expense ratio because of change in accounting.
So where that exactly falls out I’m not sure.
We were giving you an approximation.
Someone asked us would that mean we should see at least and I said yes.
I’m not trying to make your job easier Amit.
Okay that’s all I had.
Thanks.
Thank you.
I’m showing no more questions at this time.
I’ll turn the call over to Mr.
William R.
Berkley for closing remarks.
Okay.
Well I think that one of the things that differentiates companies is how well they prepare for the future how carefully they look at the future and how they make strategic decisions.
We think we do some of those things especially well from buying reinsurance to investing to expanding and a strategy of managing businesses that are close to the customer.
We’re very enthusiastic.
We do see that 300 basis point improvement in margin.
We think that the adequacy of our reserves has never been stronger.
And we’re very excited over the next several years to take advantage of what’s clearly a hardening market.
Can I say that it’s the hardest market ever? Certainly not.
But is it going to allow for profitability in a more than adequate way? Absolutely.
So thank you all very much.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you.
Good day and welcome to the W.R.
Berkley Corporation First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
The speakers' remarks may contain forward-looking statements.
Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by use of forward-looking words including without limitation believes expects or estimates.
We caution you that such forward-looking statement should not be regarded as a representation by us as future plans estimates or expectations complemented by us will in fact be achieved.
Please refer to our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and our other filings made with the SEC for a description of our business environment in which we operate and the important factors that may materially affect our results.
W.R.
Berkley Corporation is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any such obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
William R.
Berkley.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much.
We were really pleased with our quarter.
I think that -- a number of things I'd like to just comment on and then I'll turn it over to Rob.
First of all you'll see our change in format as we try to address what we think is a better presentation as an ongoing basis of how to look at our company.
That's an evolutionary process and we think this gives people a better picture in part because our various segments seem to move around and overlap and no longer gave a good picture of our ongoing business.
Second of all I think that the growth that we're showing an increase in prices is coming into our financial statement as we've tried to in fact explain on a slower basis and one what might have expected.
But we're really enthusiastic about it continuing to build over the balance of the year.
And we're very optimistic as to how things are going.
So with that I'll let Rob talk about our operations and we'll turn it over to Gene and I'll come back and make a few more comments and answer questions.
Rob? Good morning.
Through the first quarter of the commercialized market continued to experience further gradual tightening.
This ongoing trend seems to be primarily fueled by concerns stemming from prior year reserve development.
However the low interest rate environment is also beginning to have a real impact on investment income and consequently overall profitability for the industry and people are beginning to recognize the issue and react.
There has been a lot of talk about this over the past couple years but we're now beginning to see it translate into action in the form of greater discipline on the underwriting side.
We believe these factors will sustain the market improvement.
While on the surface market conditions during the first quarter appeared consistent with the second half of 2012 there were a number of signs that a sense of urgency is on the rise.
The combination of continued strong growth in the assigned risk plan and less competition for certain large accounts with a noticeable spike in submissions coming into the specialty market from the standard market is evidence that we are likely to see further tightening as the year progresses.
The overall casualty market continues to firm as companies are looking to raise rates as well as reduce capacity or line [ph] size.
While the professional market lagged the broader market it is also now showing signs of improvement.
Although in general the excess lines continue to be more resistant to such changes.
The workers' compensation market was also somewhat of an anomaly with discipline returning to the primary market while the excess space remains surprisingly competitive.
One can only assume the explanation is the difference in the duration of tail and that companies are not yet recognizing that their excess business was underpriced.
The commercial auto market aviation and marine market all continue to remain quite competitive.
However given the industry results we are anticipating a noticeable shift over the balance of the year.
Finally the property market.
While improvement rates are available they are less robust than one might expect given the global cat activity over the past 2 years.
We continue to emphasize the importance of rate adequacy and underwriting margins throughout our organization.
The company's rate monitoring of renewal business for the first quarter indicated an improvement of 7.3% over the corresponding period in 2012.
Our new business relativity metric indicated that we charge roughly 2% more for our new versus renewal business.
All 3 business segments contributed to this improvement in rate for both new and renewal business though not equally.
More specifically about 4 of our operations did not contribute to balance contributed.
This is the ninth quarter in a row the group achieved additional rate and consequently the fifth quarter that rate on rate was achieved.
Cumulatively our written rates are up 15% in 2010 and our prices are on level with where they were at the beginning of 2005.
Of course loss cost have risen since then and interest rates are lower so there is still more work to be done.
As in the past we continue to believe we are obtaining this improved rate without jeopardizing the quality of our books which is demonstrated in part by our renewal retention ratio continuing to remain at approximately 80%.
We continue to believe these 2 meaningful data points demonstrate that the group's underwriting margin is improving.
Gross written premium for the quarter was $1.63 billion.
This is an increase of 16.4% when compared with the first quarter of 2012.
When you take a closer look at the breakdown of this growth 7.3 points came from rate 8.5 came from exposure growth and audit premiums added 0.6 points.
Our international insurance and global reinsurance segments grew by 25% and 23% respectively.
While our new businesses are contributing to the growth they are not the sole driver.
37 of our 47 underwriting operations reported increases in earned premiums during the period.
For the quarter of the company's calendar year loss ratio was at 60.4% an improvement of almost 2 points compared with the first quarter last year.
The improvement in the x cat accident year loss ratio was about the same as cat losses and reserve releases were comparable to the same quarter a year ago.
Perhaps more importantly the company's paid loss ratio was 53.8% which is the lowest it's been in several years.
Our expense ratio for the quarter was at 34.3% a reduction of approximately 0.5 point.
This is gradually improving as our earned premium continues to build momentum.
We expect this trend will continue.
However it is impacted from time to time by costs associated with the development in new operation.
When you put it all together the company produced a combined ratio of 94.7% which represents an improvement of approximately 2 points.
As the year progresses we expect this trend to continue primarily due to the benefits that both the expense ratio and the loss ratio will gain from higher earned premium as well as improved rates.
We continue to be comfortable with our balance sheet due to the strength of our investment portfolio as well as the health of our loss reserves as evidenced by 25 consecutive quarters of positive reserve development.
The company continues to subscribe to a general philosophy that in the aggregate it is better to err on the side of caution when selecting initial loss ratios and adjust accordingly as more information becomes available.
The market continues to tighten evidenced not just by higher rates and the power of compounding of these higher rates but is additionally supported by the narrowing appetite of the standard market once again demonstrated by growth in assigned risk plans as well as increased submissions into the specialty market.
Our company remains well poised to take advantage of this improving market.
Thanks Rob.
All right Gene do you want to take us through the financials please? Okay thank you.
Before I go through the numbers let me just take another minute to describe the change that Bill referred to and the way we define our business segments.
First the new domestic insurance segment is really just an aggregation of former specialty regional and alternative market segment.
And over the time the distinction between these segments has become a little less relevant from a financial reporting perspective.
As Bill said that's because many of our profit centers especially the newer ones don't just write one type of business.
It falls within one category or another.
Therefore they don't specifically fit in a subsegment and we felt it was better to combine them.
The other 2 segments international insurance and global reinsurance are the same as we've previously reported except that we moved 2 companies Berkley Re Australia and Berkley Re UK from the international segment to the reinsurance segment.
You'll find -- you can find an exhibit on our website that presents our historical financial results under the new segment alignment.
By the way we also recently completed a significant change in our statutory financial structure.
Effective January 1 2013 all of our U.S.
insurance business is being reinsured to our lead company Berkley Insurance Company under a 100% intercompany pooling agreement.
This will significantly reduce our administrative and regulatory costs.
And we also think having all the business in one annual report will provide more useful statutory financial information.
Now with regard to the financial results it was another strong quarter underwriting quarter with an overall increase in underwriting income of 70% from a year ago.
The improvement was driven by a 12% increase in earned premium and by lower loss and expense ratios for each of our 3 business segments.
As Rob said gross premiums were up 16% to $1.6 billion.
Ceded premiums were up more than that.
It's 30% due to 2 things: higher reinsurance limits as well as strong growth in some of our newer companies.
We tend to buy more reinsurance for companies in their early years while they are developing a sufficient spread of risk.
You should also note that approximately 1/3 of our ceded premium is business ceded to state-assigned risk plans and related self-insured entities that we administer.
Net premiums were up 14% to $1.4 billion with increases of 12% for the domestic insurance segment and 22% each for international and reinsurance.
For the domestic insurance the growth was led by our E&amp;S companies and our monoline workers' comp business.
The international growth was mostly from our businesses in the U.K.
and Europe and the increase in reinsurance was driven by growth in Asia Pacific region and the U.K.
Changes in foreign exchange rates had minimal impact on the international growth rate.
In terms of our combined ratio.
Just to add a few comments to what Rob had to say the combined ratio declined by 1.8 percentage points to 94.7%.
Underlying loss ratio before cats and reserves declined by 2.62%.
Prior year reserves developed favorably by $24 million almost unchanged from $25 million a year ago.
All 3 business segments reported favorable reserve development this quarter with the majority of that coming from the reinsurance segment.
Cat losses were light again at 0.4 loss ratio points unchanged from a year ago.
And the expense ratio improved by 4/10 of a point to 34.3%.
Because we're growing so significantly we've talked about this before we also look at our direct written expense ratio that's before ceded premiums and DAC because we think it's a more current measurement of our expense trend.
And on that basis the expense ratio declined a full point to 30.6%.
Investment income from our core portfolio was down $2 million to $121 million with annualized yield of 3.6%.
Income from investment funds was $11 million with an annualized return of 5.7%.
Although the investment fund income was in line with our expectations it's well below the 18% returned -- return that was earned in the first quarter of 2012.
The difference is mainly due to energy funds that had a especially strong earnings in the first half of 2012.
Realized gains from investment sales were $20 million during the quarter and pretax unrealized gains were $804 million at March 31.
At the end of the quarter 81% of our portfolio was invested in cash and fixed income securities with a duration of 3.3 years and an average credit rating of AA-.
Unrealized gains were up slightly in the quarter but a 6% decline in the British pound exchange rate resulted in an unrealized currency translation loss of $46 million.
About 1/3 of that decline has reversed so far in the month of April.
So that gives us net income of $117 million and annualized return on equity of 10.8% and book value per share of $32.19.
And if you adjust for the special dividend we paid in December our book value per share is up over 11% for the last 12 months.
Thanks Gene.
So we are pretty pleased with how we're going and where things are going.
There were some things that were unusual as the volatility.
We're well hedged on the euro.
We are investing in sterling still.
That decline in sterling at the end of the quarter did cost us in book value.
Although as Gene said between 1/3 and 1/2 of that is back already and we think that sterling is a better alternative for us than the euro at the moment.
We do have a number of investment alternatives that we think will protect us over the long run from inflation.
But in the short run we're less concerned with inflation because we think the dollar is still the place to go and we think that foreign flows into the U.S.
will really keep inflation under control certainly in the next 12 to 18 months.
So we're feeling a little less pressure for inflation being around the corner which is causing us not to be in such a rush to shorten the duration of our portfolio.
As far as our own opportunities we're seeing growth in almost all of our operating units.
And there's a lot of volatility as people leave segments of the business that they entered without properly positioning themselves and we're finding good opportunities with people and relationships where we're able to step in and gain market position.
It's clearly becoming a marketplace of the haves and have nots.
And for the haves it's going to be an excellent next few years.
So with that Kevin we're happy to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Amit Kumar with Macquarie Capital.
Just 2 questions.
First of all just going back to your pricing comment and the shift to -- from standard to specialty markets.
Do you get the sense that perhaps we will be able to hit double-digit rates by end of 2013? Or do we stay in the 7% to 8% range for the remainder of the year? Amit this is Rob.
I think that it would just be speculation.
Certainly there are lots of data points that would suggest that pricing leverage in favor of the carriers could potentially build from here.
At the same time I'm not sure if it's such a perfect science that we can call it with any -- within any 90- or 180-day period.
So are the fundamentals there? Does the pressure continue to build that would drive further change in behavior and looking to achieve as far as rate? Absolutely that is the case.
But our ability to answer your question with a level of precision that you're looking for I think is a stretch.
Having said that it certainly is a distinct possibility.
I think Amit the one external factor that's here today that wasn't here in the last cycle is we have an economy that's not as robust.
And that's going to keep a little more pressure on the marketplace.
So I think that it's not as much as an insurance question as an economic question.
There is plenty of pressure for improving rate as needs for returns.
On the other hand you do have that economy that is improving getting better but not at a robust rate.
Got it.
And secondly I guess related to that is the discussion on loss-cost trends.
And I know you spend a lot of time talking about I guess using a 3% number on the past calls and why maybe that's what your views but trends might be even better than that.
Has anything changed on the loss-cost trend front? Or is it still pretty much the same what we discussed about on the last call? I think that we would generally -- based on what our actuaries see with medical costs and everything else we would say it's generally steady.
I think because of less pressure on inflation overall we would have expected a little more pressure and there's definitely less pressure.
But I think that to be more optimistic at this moment would probably be foolhardy.
So I think that we would still sort of stick at that 3% level.
And be happy if it came out to be 2% that will be great.
But I think we're going to still stick at the 3% level.
Got it.
Final question and I know you've given us the chicken today feathers tomorrow analogy in the past.
There's a lot of discussion on third-party capital entering the reinsurance marketplace and providing additional capacity to the market which already has a lot of capital.
Do you have any thoughts on third-party capital and even perhaps utilizing third-party capital back to reinsurance to write some lines which you might not have written in the past? Third-party capital or if you will capital provided by various pieces of the capital markets ranging from private equity funds and hedge funds to banks have been available for a while.
I think it's an interesting avenue.
We've used it on occasion to provide us with reinsurance.
However our own view at this point is we're not really interested in the uncertainty or the volatility that those kinds of returns offer us.
We have looked and considered providing services to some of those people and for the moment don't think it's where we want to go.
We believe that when we do that for someone we're still putting our name on that risk variant fees business and it's just not -- it's not something that we're going to do tomorrow.
If we think that we can do it in a way that provides a return for them and fees for us and they're willing to accept the volatility we might well go there as these markets develop more but we're not ready to do it tomorrow.
Our next question comes from Mike Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So one question I had I guess is in growing now.
I mean are you able to find areas where margins on business you pick up is consistent with or are consistent with the margins that you're seeing on your retained book? The pricing on our new business is in general 2% higher than on our renewal book [ph].
So in fact the answer is yes.
In fact it's a little bit better.
But you think it needed to be a little better because you don't have the same experience you don't have the same knowledge so the certainty of your underwriting skills is not as good.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I mean it makes sense -- I guess and this may be a really basic question but who is giving that -- who is not writing that business? So if the business is at good margins maybe better margins what is causing that business to be available? I think in general what's happening is you've got lots of people who are more concerned with the quality of their insurers and are saying "We need to be sure that people are here." So you have people going for stability going to people who they know knew will be there.
I think you've got several larger companies that are trying to sell themselves trying to get out of business that's bringing up business and people are saying "We don't want this.
We'll pay a little more to have stability." And like everything there's turmoil in the marketplace in some segment or another always.
So I think that's going on people aren't reunderwriting their books of business.
So it's not like there's 1 company but there's probably 2 or 3 medium-sized companies that are currently going out of business.
And so I think that what we will do is look at the list of the companies that people like Goldman Sachs are selling.
And that those customers are the ones who are creating opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then could you give a little bit more color you mentioned primary versus excess.
I thought that was really interesting just kind of the competitive dynamics between those 2 different distribution-placed businesses? Rob? Yes.
I think that obviously we can't specifically pinpoint what is driving others' behavior but we are noticing a great difference as to the tone and the attitude when it comes to pricing of primary versus excess in a couple of parts of the overall marketplace.
Our hypothesis or theory is that the excess tends to take a little more time for the results to come through and for people to recognize the issues that they may be facing as opposed to a primary where the consequent has come through in a more timely manner which is why you're seeing people respond to the primary more quickly.
Research Division</strong> Do you think part of it might be -- I'm just curious if have to do with the fact that to write this traditional business you need more infrastructure you need fully built-out claim system.
And then maybe if you're writing higher mid-layer excess maybe you need less than that.
Is that a possibility? Or is that not likely? I guess it's a possibility.
But based on what we see it has less to do with expense ratio and more to do with perhaps a lack of underwriting discipline and how long it takes for when you're in the excess layers for that to become apparent the excess comp probably being a great example of that.
Research Division</strong> Got it great.
And then just one last one if I could.
What are the attributes that you look at when you're -- you mentioned new startups and I would imagine a lot of that is still taking place outside of the U.S.
What are the attributes that you look at in terms of deciding where you want to grow? I'm guessing and we've heard from other folks that pricing is still better in the U.S.
than outside of the U.S I'm guessing you just have a longer lens in terms of what you want your profile to look like but any color there would be helpful.
I think that we'll let Rob give you the answer the specifics.
But I think that our strategy as opposed to the specifics to your question is always an opportunistic one.
It's not here's what we're going to do.
It's finding the opportunity that presents itself.
So you want to...
Yes.
I mean our general approach when we're looking for opportunities is on a macro level the same domestically as well as outside the United States.
We're looking for market opportunities which we think is a sustainable opportunity.
We want to differentiate based on intellectual capital and expertise as opposed to purely just capacity because that makes you write for becoming even more of a commodity.
As far as your comment about the U.S.
versus the non-U.S.
I think to paint with such a broad brush to say that price increases in the U.S.
are better than outside of the U.S.
I think that is a bit of a broadbrush.
Certainly there are markets outside of the U.S.
that remain more competitive than our domestic market here perhaps Europe being an example of that or parts of Asia.
But ultimately when we look at opportunities whether they'd be in the U.S.
or outside of the U.S.
we're looking at it from a risk-adjusted return perspective.
Obviously when you're doing business outside of the U.S.
in some jurisdictions you need to take into account the environment or the country risks which we factor into the analysis.
We don't have the luxury of investing in operations that hopefully a decade from now will start to generate a return.
That's not our approach or philosophy.
At the same time we're prepared to both domestically and outside of the U.S.
invest in opportunities that we think over the foreseeable future will help build value for the organization and the shareholders.
To try and be a little bit more specific as to what our general process would be somehow or another through referral or someone we know we would find a group of people who we think are talented.
We've examined their expertise the market they do business in country specialty whatever.
We'll evaluate what we think is the risk adjusted return the volatility the exposures the size if it's fit within the group what does it take to do it and then try and move forward.
It would be possible but not usual that we would say we want to be in this business.
It has happened some of our units got started because we said we want to be in this business.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then would you -- lastly did you evaluate those opportunities based on local interest rates local country and equity risk premiums? Or do you kind of centralize that? It's all based on our risk-adjusted return.
But understand the risk is related to wherever it is whatever lines of business it is.
So obviously the risk of doing business in some places is much different than the risk of doing business in others either because of the line of business the nature of the country its legal system whatever.
Our next question comes from Ron Bobman with Capital Returns.
LLC</strong> Last year in your -- in the excess worker's comp market your main competitor was bought by one of the giant Japanese companies.
And then at year end that same main competitor took a massive reserve addition.
I'm wondering it's a big seasonal renewal in that line of business January and I think the summertime.
So I'm curious if at 1/1 or of late whether you're seeing some behavioral change from that competitor.
I'm not going to speak specifically about the one competitor but we'll speak about the market in general or competitors as a group.
Certainly we are observing a somewhat change in appetite and attitude.
Quite frankly I don't think we're seeing the same level of competition that we saw 12 months ago.
It's not to suggest at all that -- that rates are dramatically going up and that there's been a sea change in behavior.
But certainly the blind leading the blind doesn't seem to be the case any longer.
LLC</strong> I think you should say the blind leading Berkley not leading -- they were the blind ones I thought But according to your -- to Bill's commentary...
No I think that they are the blind ones but I can assure you we are not following them.
Having -- so long story short as far as excess comp goes it's not the free-fall that it was in maybe last year and prior.
At the same time certainly we are not seeing the excess comp market react the way we have seen the primary comp market over the past quarter or 2.
Understand the excess comp market is the epitome of risk in this environment.
And that is because it's such a long tail line inflation is inevitable to impact their cost of claims because you have -- the average duration of about 17 or 18 years and you know you'll have inflation long before we get to that point in time of a substantial degree.
And you have the discount based on current interest rates if you're cautious.
And if you're not cautious you choose an optimistic interest rate.
And that optimistic interest rate could cause you to have a huge difference in your pricing.
So the combination of optimism as to low inflation forever and higher interest rates than we currently have can create differentials in price of 50% and you can justify it.
And just you have to worry about retiring before you have to pay the piper.
LLC</strong> So are you -- just to follow up so are you -- so I would think that the rational [indiscernible] would pull -- you'd pull back your writings dramatically in the line like that sure of getting rate increases...
No it just means you have to adequately price and make rational decisions.
And in fact our writings are down substantially.
How much are they down now roughly? They're down probably about 40% from where they were at the peak.
Our next question comes from Vinay Misquith with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> The first question is on the pace of growth and it's been pretty healthy the past few quarters.
Just curious on what the outlook is going forward.
I mean you seeing higher pricing I guess more business is now becoming attractive to you.
Do you see the pace continuing? Or do you see the pace slowing down from these levels? Rob? As far as -- I'd like to make sure I understand the question as to whether we see rates continuing to progress at this level is that what you're...
Research Division</strong> No it's really about the top line growth.
The top line growth.
Certainly it really depends in part as to how we see the market harden from here.
We would expect that the -- many of our businesses have quite a bit of runway in front of them and the opportunity to grow as we've suggested to you and others in the past we feel like we have the fundamental platform in place for our business to be able to grow dramatically beyond what it is.
It's hard to know with certainty what market conditions will be tomorrow which will play a big role in defining how big we can get and how quickly we can get there.
There's nothing that is in front of us right now that leads us to believe that we are not going to be able to continue to grow at a healthy pace since -- once again as we mentioned earlier there are signs that the market may continue to tighten even from here which will give us more opportunity to grow the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Second question was on the accident year loss ratio improvement.
That was about say roughly 200 basis points.
Your rate increases are about 600 to 700 basis points and loss-cost trends of 300 basis points.
So I would have expected maybe slightly more margin improvement.
So is that just a normal lag between...
So I'm going to let Gene explain and don't expect it to make sense but Gene will explain.
I'll try.
So really what happens is for every 1% change in net trend and by net trend I mean price increases less loss-cost trend equals a 1% change in our loss ratio.
But a 1% change in our loss ratio is 6/10 of 1 point not a full point.
So we would expect for every point change in that net trend 6/10 of 1 point change in our loss ratio.
So 3 -- we're estimating round a 3-point improvement in net trend 3.5 maybe.
That equates to about 2 points in the loss ratio.
Research Division</strong> Okay I'd have to follow up on the math later.
Yes.
And why don't you -- he'll go through it with you.
Be happy to.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the last question if I may.
On the arbitrage account I noticed that you put a significant amount into the arbitrage account this quarter.
So 2 questions on that.
So do you expect that to remain at these levels for the future? And what's your normalized expectation for that? The arbitrage account goes up and down almost daily okay? It was -- that was what it was the end of the quarter.
But if you go up or down pretty dramatically based on opportunities that are available at that point in time it's just the user of cash.
And it's -- from our point of view we can convert 90% of that to cash within a day or 2.
So for us we actually got into the arbitrage business 25 years ago because it was just a short-term way to use cash and a lot better return than cash.
So historically it's given us a return of probably 300 or 400 basis points net of all expenses and so forth above cash returns and we would expect to continue to do that.
In fact it's probably in the long run probably it could be more like 500 basis points better than cash.
But at the moment it just -- it went up because there were opportunities to do things at the end of the quarter.
That's all.
And I think that could come -- it wouldn't be surprising for that to be down by a few hundred million dollars at the end of the second quarter.
Our next question comes from Ken Billingsley with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question I have is on the rate increases -- I'm sorry the growth that's occurred in the quarter.
After backing out rate increases where is the growth coming from? Is it from recent startups? Or is it grabbing market share with existing lines of business? Where is that mix of growth coming from? It's really a combination.
And as we had suggested much of the growth was in our reinsurance segment in our non-U.S.
business percentage-wise at least.
And as far as the reinsurance goes the lion's share of that was coming from non-U.S.
reinsurance activities.
And as far as the international insurance business that's really coming from at this stage all over ranging from South America to our Lloyd's operation to some of our activities that are in our European business as well as our insurance activities in Australia.
LLC Research Division</strong> I would imagine the comments that you made aren't necessarily domestically related.
So for some of the international business is that -- is the competition less there? Or is it just organic growth? I'm sorry could you repeat that? You didn't come through.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sorry about that.
The -- just repeating the question is I would imagine your comments about competition backing away and creating opportunity does not just mean domestically related.
So in the international business is that organic growth? Or are you seeing the same trends both domestically and internationally? The answer is that the change in appetite is perhaps a little bit more or behavior is a little bit visible domestically but we certainly are seeing that in some places outside of the United States as well.
I think also some of the growth that we have is where we participate in markets or economies where they have been just going through a great boom.
And as a result of that we've been benefiting as well.
So whether that be a place like Brazil or Australia as far as our European business goes certainly Germany has fared reasonably well and Norway has done quite well also.
So I would suggest to you the -- while it does apply across the board the market dislocation if you will is more the case domestically.
And outside of the United States while there is a bit of market dislocation the growth has more been as a result of the economies that we operate in and benefiting from the momentum they're enjoying.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
But there's been some comments recently that maybe regional competitors and especially renewal business -- I'm sorry new business is being more aggressively priced than renewal business.
Obviously you guys commented that you're getting about 2% more.
Not asking you to comment on obviously other people's events.
But maybe why are you able to -- maybe your trend seems to be counter to at least what comments are coming out this quarter? Well I think -- well not using names we're happy to comment on what other people are doing and explain to you how that's different from our philosophy.
There seems to be others that are interested in what we would define as buying market share or buying accounts with the approach or philosophy that when it becomes a renewal they will make up for that raise the rates and they look at it somewhat prospective of the total value of account.
We struggle with that a little bit because to the extent you can finally get your rates where they need to be and it's a hard market historically when it is a hard market you do not have to have bought business you can write as much business as you want at good prices.
So the idea buying it upfront doesn't really resonate with us.
We have a philosophy that you should charge more for risk and that applies to the organization on multiple levels.
Presumably you know more about an account that you are renewing than business that is new to you.
As a result there is more risk with a new account than a renewal account.
So you would think that you should have some type of surcharge for that additional risk.
So again I guess on 2 fronts it really just -- the difference is philosophy as it relates to buying market share with the attitude that you'll make up for it in the future with your rate increases and also how you fundamentally view the risk that comes along with new business versus renewal business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Last question I have is on the excess workers' comp business you talked a bit about that.
Could you explain what is the typical reporting time lag between losses from the primary side as it actually impact the excess carrier in the case of workers' comp? It's certainly north of 3 years and probably north of 5 years.
It really depends on attachment point and how the deal is structured if you will.
But it -- certainly it takes longer to figure out your issues in the excess comp world than it does in the primary.
There is no doubt about that and probably the difference would be at least 2 years.
So in part you have to remember that excess comp is in fact very similar to comp reinsurance.
And again you have to see how the claim develops see how the underlying risk develops.
There -- a small percentage of the claims you know right away.
But the vast majority of the claims even disability claim takes time to know whether people will get back to work whether they're going to be permanently disabled whatever and that's the place where it really runs into big amounts of money.
So it takes time.
And then the question is when you find out about it do you set up the adequate reserves to start with? Or are you a newbie in the business and you think that this is more like primary comp and you don't recognize the nature of how large a reserve to set up? LLC Research Division</strong> So in these issues it's not necessarily the fact that -- historically looking at the loss ratio for the last few years have been kind of poor in that space.
And though it's improving it's still pretty bad.
It's more of a case of the medical inflation trends that they're not capturing? Well it's not just the medical inflation trends because lots of it is just rehab cost what's going on with drugs what's going on with -- I mean it's a very complex business and it's the discount rate you're going to use on claims payments.
You want to be optimistic or pessimistic on the discount rate.
And the discount rate can double the amount of reserve or cut it in half.
So there's a lot of variables that have to do with judgment.
Our next question comes from Bob Farnam with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Not to keep hammering at the excess workers' comp piece but obviously you said that you think competitors have issues if they're not looking at the discount rate correctly.
But -- so have you changed your assumptions in the -- basically your inflation assumptions in the long-term reserves there? And what are you looking at? Well we always use the current discount rate of current treasury market.
And each year is -- a piece of the market.
So reserves that were set up in 2006 will have let's just make up the number 5% then the reserves we set up in 2012 might have 2%.
So it's average of the historical discount rate and we buy long-term bonds to try and match that for that piece of our portfolio.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So basically the business you put your -- the reserves you're setting up now are sets with the expectations over the current rates in...
Yes and then what you really have is a composite rate of all those years that gives you hopefully the average.
Our next question comes from Larry Greenberg with Langen McAlenney.
I think we probably all agree that this is a fairly unique period in the pricing environment and the industry and some...
I assume you mean that the prices aren't going up as fast as they should.
Yes yes yes.
That would be one explanation.
But you've got some saying it's not a hard market some saying it's not a classic hard market some wondering that we're now going into round 3 of price increases and could it continue.
So I'm just curious you've got your antenna up obviously.
And if anything is out there that might truncate the momentum that we have in pricing right now what do you think it is? Or where might it come from? What would be the characteristics of that segment of the market that could get in the way of this momentum? There's really nothing that I see but we're in a strange world.
And you never know what can come out there.
I think that we have more sophisticated managers for what I'd call the haves in the insurance business.
And they understand that they can't continue running a business pretending there's underwriting results and there's investment income and they're separate.
The reality is with investment income down so dramatically and older portfolios coming off you need more underwriting profitability.
So if anything there's more and more pressure to gain underwriting profits because we've had a longer and longer time where those old bond yields are going off.
And we have a longer duration on average than most of our competitors.
There are lots of people who had 2.5 years and their duration is down to 1.8 years and that's a lot of pressure.
You've got to make it up.
And some people are making it up because they're going more to do more speculative things some people are extending the duration on what they're buying now.
There's a lot of strategies people are following.
But the reality is with investment returns down a lot you've got to get underwriting profit.
So there's nothing I see that's going to change that trend for certainly through next year.
I think there will be continued price increase pressure through this year and through at least next year with increasing pressure honestly as we get towards the end of this year and into next year.
Great.
And then I'm pretty sure I misheard this and -- from Gene and I...
He does these things.
And listening to the conversation I'm almost certain I misheard this.
But I thought he said that a lot of the growth in the domestic insurance piece was from monoline and I thought he said your monoline excess workers' comp company.
No no monoline workers' -- our monoline workers' comp.
We have monoline workers' comp company that's been able to grow.
It's -- well actually we have several that has been able to take advantage of the market.
Not our excess comp.
That business unfortunately has still not grown at all.
He has a lisp.
I think he's slow down.
It might be my hearing.
Our next question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So I do have 3 questions and they're relatively short.
The expense ratio well down from a year ago did pick up from the past several quarters.
I'm not sure if there's any seasonality in that number.
Not really but we've talked about this before the more growth we get the more of a drag this DAC has on our numbers.
And also I mentioned in my comments the reinsurance so we're playing a little bit more reinsurance.
We have a lower net premium base and so that also impacts the ratio.
I think that the change in the DAC accounting probably cost us 0.5 point or something close to it on expense ratio.
And the buying of more reassurance as we have a disproportionate number of new startups where we don't have a real spread of risk probably cost us something like a similar amount.
So I think as we go through this year and into next I would expect -- unless our growth accelerates which of course is possible.
But if it doesn't accelerate I would think that that spread should start to diminish.
Research Division</strong> Great.
The second one also numbers question.
The paid loss ratio you had mentioned Bill there was a -- it looks like it's the lowest number in almost 5 years.
Is there anything to read into that? Or is that just normal variability in paid claims quarter-to-quarter? So I'm going to answer before the lawyer could wave to me.
And the answer is yes you should read into that.
You should read into it the fact that we think we're continuing to be cautious because we're using a higher trend than some of our competitors and we're being cautious in establishing our reserves.
But as you and I have talked over many years Jay paid loss ratios are the one thing you can never hide behind.
You can't avoid that.
And I think it's a very good sign as to directionally where things are going.
And while one quarter doesn't make the difference I think it's a number that people should probably pay more attention to.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And the last question on the debt.
I guess you retired I think it was a couple hundred million dollars of debt in a quarter that was maturing where is the debt to capital now post that retirement? 31%.
Our next question comes from Gregory Locraft from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Most of mine have been answered.
Just one I'm wrestling with is just your ROE versus your peers.
Those that have already reported all of them are at much higher levels.
And yet you guys run with higher balance sheet leverage in the underwriting and investment side.
So can you help us think about why the business engine is running with a lower return than peers in the current environment? I don't know what part of the P&amp;L is lagging the others.
Greg it's Rob.
I think one of the things that's difficult to do but I think is relevant is the mix of business or portfolio -- the fact is many of those that have reported had benefited in a very large way from what their property results were.
We as an organization have a bit more of a casualty vent [ph] to us.
So when the wind blows and the earth shakes we don't have the same issues that others face.
Having said that when it is a benign quarter they certainly benefit from that.
So we don't have the same level of volatility.
And again if you look at the results of those that have reported certainly they benefited greatly from the significant amount of property exposure that they write whether that be on the commercial line side or certainly on many cases on the personal line side as well.
One of the things that we have always tried to do is try to have a certain level of consistency and not have the volatility that property tax exposure has meant.
It seems today that lots of people in the marketplace when the wind blows say "If it weren't for the cats." And they don't count it.
And when the cats don't blow they say "what great returns." We just -- I think if you looked at those differences over an extended period of time it would probably equalize the differences.
And rest assured we ask that question every day and every quarter.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
I guess yes fourth quarter certainly showed that with Sandy and the results for everyone.
And I'm not showing any further questions at this time.
I like to turn the conference back to our host for closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thank you all very much.
We're quite pleased as I said with the quarter and we're expecting a continuation of that.
No one asked the question but I didn't want it to be a special comment to any analysts that we do expect our funds to be back on track with -- between $17.5 million and $22.5 million for the second quarter.
And we do have most of those back in.
So that's not a guess.
That's an estimate based on most of the reporting in.
So thank you all very much.
Have a great day.
Bye-bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day and welcome to W.R.
Berkley Corporation Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
The speakers' remarks may contain forward-looking statements.
Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words including without limitation believes expects or estimates.
We caution you that such forward-looking statements should not be regarded as representation by us that the future plans estimates or expectations contemplated by us will be in fact be achieved.
Please refer to our annual report on Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31 2012 and our other filings made with the SEC for a description of the business environment in which we operate and the important factors that may materially affect our results.
W.R.
Berkley Corporation is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any such obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
William R.
Berkley.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much.
So we were pleased with our quarter.
We think it demonstrates our lack of volatility and our ability to continue forward in this environment.
And we would expect the underlying results to continue to lead the process.
I'll make a lot more comments after Rob and Gene.
And -- so why don't we start with Rob talking about our results? Go ahead Rob.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Good afternoon.
The second quarter by and large was a continuation of the trends that we saw in Q1.
Primary comp rates continue to move up at a healthy pace.
And we're pleased to see that it would appear as though the excess comp market has touched bottom and is showing early signs of improvement.
The geo market both from a primary and excess perspective is getting some rates and it would appear as though the momentum is building and the umbrella market is right there along with it.
On the other hand the professional market is a bit more of a mixed bag depending on the class also depending on where you are in the tower.
Primary public D&amp;O rates continue to move up at a healthy pace.
Having said that if you're farther up in the tower and the excess space it would seem as though things are more flat to up to plus low single digits.
Private and not-for-profit D&amp;O are also getting some rate as the P&amp;L[indiscernible] but then again on the other hand the medical space remained very competitive and perhaps increasingly competitive as is the miscellaneous D&amp;O.
The property market while rate is still available best as we can tell would seem as though the market is losing a bit of momentum.
It's a bit surprising quite frankly that this would be the case on the heels of Sandy as well as an active tornado season in the Midwest and of course the floods in Europe and Canada.
Well quite frankly it doesn't seem like it's giving the marketplace much reason to pause.
The property market has always been one that's made us scratch our head from time to time.
When the earth shakes or the wind blows it seems as though people choose to back that out of the results.
And when Mother Nature is kind to us it seems as though people call it brilliance.
The but for story or excuse presumably at some point is going to begin to get a little bit old.
Now if I can turn your attention more specifically to our results during the quarter.
Rate adequacy and underwriting margin remain a paramount focus for us.
We are pleased with the rate increases that we got in our insurance operations during the quarter coming in at 6.5%.
This is reasonably consistent with what we've seen over the past several quarters.
More specifically 43 of our 47 underwriting units achieved additional rates.
We were comforted by the fact that our renewal retention ratio remains at approximately 80%.
This gives us a piece of mind that while we're achieving this additional rate we are not undermining the quality of the book.
Our new business relativity metric came in at 3.6%.
This is a metric that we talked about with some of you in the past.
It's our effort to try and compare the rates that we're getting on new business with our renewal book.
We think that this is an important metric because obviously you want to make sure the new business that you're adding to the portfolio in no way is undermining or diluting the margin in your book.
And in addition to that obviously new business as opposed to renewal business you know less about so consequently some type of surcharge would be logical and appropriate.
New business relativity metric is something that quite frankly we don't understand why more market participants don't focus on.
There is no doubt it is not a perfect formula but it is a meaningful data point.
Our conclusion is that others must do it they just may choose not to discuss it.
During the quarter gross written premium was $1.617 billion up 13% over the second quarter in 2012.
As I mentioned earlier part of that was driven by the 6.5 points of additional rate.
A little bit over 6 points was due to exposure and the balance was due to audit.
All 3 segments contributed in a meaningful way.
And more specifically 39 of our 47 underwriting operations contributed to this growth.
The loss ratio on a calendar year basis for the quarter came in at a 62.8% versus a 63.7% for the corresponding period last year.
We are pleased with this result given the fact that we had $8 million more associated with cat losses during the second quarter this year.
On the topic of tax we had a total $34 million of losses during the quarter.
The lion's share of the losses stem from severe convective storm activity in the Midwest.
Gene is going to spend a bit of time on the loss ratio as well as on an accident year basis.
But I thought I would tuck in the comments that on an accident year basis we came in at a 64.2% compared to a 66.3% for the same period last year.
And lastly on the topic of losses I wanted to mention that the paid loss ratio for the quarter ran at a 55.1% which again is not a perfect indication but perhaps an encouraging sign as to what the portfolio is running at.
With regards to the expense ratio we were pleased with the improvement coming in at a 33.8%.
This is an improvement of 8/10 of 1%.
The main driver is to the improvement and the expense ratio is due to the building of our earned premium.
As we have discussed over time this will be happening.
We expect this to continue to improve over time as we are able to further leverage the platform that we have heavily invested in over the past several years.
When you put all the pieces together we ended up with a combined of a 96.6% compared to 98.2% for the second quarter last year.
On an accident year basis the improvement is similar to approximately 2% -- or 2 points rather excuse me.
With regard to the balance sheet I believe our Chairman is going to be spending a bit of time talking about this but I did want to tuck in one quick comment and that is related to our loss reserves.
We are very comfortable as an organization with our loss reserves in the aggregate.
We have a large number of people that work very diligently every day to make sure that the loss reserves are appropriately managed and what they should be.
Obviously there's no substitute for time.
And with the passage of time it will become apparent how successful we have been in managing this.
Having said that the second quarter of this year represents the 26th quarter in a row of positive reserve development for the group.
But perhaps that gives a bit of comfort.
Another subject that has come up more recently will have to do with the marketplace overall whether the rate increases that have been achieved over the past several quarters are sustainable whether the momentum will build whether it will maintain or whether it will erode.
When we look at the marketplace we are convinced that at a minimum rate increases will remain or increase from here.
When you look at the continued growth in assigned risk plans as insurers are forced to accept the market of last resort when you look at the commercial line space overall and the number of accounts that are leading the standard market making their way into the specialty market and the E&amp;S market as the standard market narrows its appetite it also provides further evidence that there is more tightening going on.
But putting those data points aside there is the fundamental reality of the economic model of the industry.
The lower interest rates and the impact that it's having on industry investment returns is here and coming into focus very quickly and undoubtedly that is putting further pressure on the marketplace to look for ways to increase underwriting margin.
We as a group feel very comfortable with the position of our organization.
We believe we're quite well-poised to take advantage of not just the markets here in front of us today but where we see it going tomorrow.
That's about it for me.
Okay.
Thank you Rob.
Gene do you want to talk about the numbers a bit? Yes I will.
Rob covered a lot of the underwriting so I'll just add a few brief comments on that and then cover investment income.
It was a good quarter for us again especially in terms of our underwriting results.
Underwriting profits more than doubled from a year ago and that's due to a 12% increase in earned premiums as well as the decline in both our loss ratio and expense ratio that Rob mentioned.
The increase in gross premium 13% that is made up of domestic insurance business increased by 13% as well global reinsurance by 17% and the international insurance segment by 15% in local currency terms and 11% in U.S.
dollars.
Our reinsurance costs were in line with last year with ceded premiums excluding assigned risk business running at about 13% of gross premiums in both years.
So that leaves us with net premiums of $1.3 billion for the quarter and $2.7 billion year-to-date both periods up 13%.
Overall combined ratio improved by 1.6 percentage points to 96.6%.
On an accident year basis before cat losses our loss ratio declined by 2.5 points and our GAAP expense ratio by 0.8 point with all 3 business segments reporting declines in both ratios.
The cat losses that Rob mentioned of $34 million includes $27 million from storms in the U.S.
mostly in Midwest and Southwest regions as well as $7 million from the European floods and other non-U.S.
events.
That gives us an accident year combined ratio including cats of 98.0% in the quarter down 3 points from 100.8% a year ago.
And finally with respect to underwriting of prior-year reserve we developed favorably by $18.5 million.
That compares to $30 million in the second quarter 2012.
And the favorable reserve development in '13 was concentrated in our domestic insurance segment.
Turning to investment income.
Our investment income was $144 million in the quarter.
It's down 11% from the prior-year period.
The decline was related primarily to investment funds.
Although our investment funds had a good second quarter in 2013 with an annualized return of over 11% fund income was still down from an unusually high return of 22% in the second quarter of 2012.
Income from the rest of the portfolio was down $4 million as lower fixed income returns were partially offset by higher returns for the merger arbitrage business.
The overall annualized portfolio yield was 3.9% in the second quarter compared with 4.4% a year ago.
Realized investment gains were up $9 million in the quarter with most of the gains coming from sales of equity securities and investment fund positions.
Unrealized investment gains were $328 million at June 30.
That's down $190 million from the beginning of the year.
Most of that increase occurred in the second quarter as benchmark rates for treasuries increased by 65 basis points and quality spreads widened.
As of the end of the quarter the portfolio remains at 81% cash and fixed income securities with an average duration of 3.3 years and an average credit rating of AA-.
During the quarter we repurchased 776 000 shares of our stock at an aggregate cost of $31 million.
We also issued $350 million of 40-year trust-preferred securities with a 5 5/8% coupon and we repaid $250 million of trust-preferred securities which had a coupon of 6 3/4%.
Our second quarter earnings include approximately $7 million of expenses related to the early debt extinguishment.
The overall effective tax rate was 27% unchanged from a year ago and that gives us net income of $160 million -- excuse me $116 million and an annualized return on equity of 10.8% for the quarter.
Thanks Gene.
So I'm going to try and take you through a few highlights that I think are important to focus on.
First of all be sure you understand if you may recall the first quarter of last year we had higher price increases than in the second quarter.
It really is an aberration having to do with the nature of what's priced when.
We don't think pricing momentum has changed or gone down.
June is always softer than the rest of the quarter.
It's softer than the first 6 months in general.
We think it picks up.
We don't see any changing in pricing momentum at this point in time.
Lots of brokers are trying to push prices down.
That's in their interest.
It's wonderful to say.
And they keep talking about how much prices have gone up.
But if you look at the profitability of insurance companies insurance companies have always made their money from investment income and investment returns are down substantially.
And in fact in the world we live in today investment income for the kinds of portfolios that cautiously manage property casualty companies have -- you're going to have to see from 50 to 150 basis points decline in your portfolio as you reinvest the money because you have your highest-yielding longest-term investments maturing or -- being pre-funded -- pre-refunded and you have to invest that money.
So the fact is you're facing serious changes in what's going off your portfolio and what you're able to invest in.
The alternative is to bet on no inflation for an extended period of time which is not something we're prepared to do nor are most of our competitors.
Overall we continue to have as the biggest single part of our portfolio being municipal bonds although that is a smaller portion today than it has been and corporates are now a bigger portion not quite as large as municipals but a much bigger portion than they have been historically it's purely based on maturity yield and opportunity to invest.
We continue to be modest players in the equity market and search out particularly unique investments that we think offer us good returns.
At this moment in time we think that we'll be able to find some of those but not enough to keep all our cash flow and our maturing portfolio fully invested.
So we would expect a modest continuation in the decline in portfolio returns.
Overall though we're pretty pleased how things are going.
We think we'll see a continuing improvement in our combined ratio in the balance of the year.
As our earned premium from higher rates come through we would expect at least another point maybe more maybe 2 points in combined ratio improvement inclusive of -- part of that coming from the expense ratio.
And we're pretty optimistic that it's going to end up being a good year with a really good return on our capital.
We think that in spite of the brokers pounding the table that rates have gone up enough they're just not looking at the real cost of capital and what's happening to returns for their property casualty companies that they do business with.
With that Sayyid I'd be happy to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Amit Kumar from Macquarie.
My first question relates to the topic of pricing.
Rob said that rates I guess will remain the same or probably increase from here.
If I go back to the comments you made previously you had said that pricing could be 8% to 10% up by year-end 2013.
Are we on track? Do you still think we're on track for that? Or has that thought process changed? It's Rob.
I don't recall exactly the words.
But what I was trying to suggest is that we think the level of rate increase that we are getting today or in the second quarter if you like which was 6.5% that we believe that you will continue to see that and it is likely to build from here which sort of ties into the comments later in my commentary that if you look at the economic model of an insurance company much of the rate increases people have been seeking stem from their concerns having to do from loss activity.
And the impact which is even more leveraged of investment income declining is likely to force people to raise rates even beyond what they had done to date.
Yes.
I think that his comment really tied right into what I was talking about which is that price increases will continue at the 6.5% or higher.
So I would expect what I said before is our view as well.
We still are optimistic that 7% 8% give or take will be the level of increases by the end of the year.
So we have gone down because as I said previously we were -- and again I don't want to parse the words here but you were thinking of 8% to 10% and then now we are...
No I'm being more cautious as I was at the second quarter of last year because I always am surprised that the second quarter you may recall my comments the second quarter of last year I was a little cautious because the rate increases were not as much and then they came back to be in the 7s the second half of last year.
So I'm a little more cautious but no in principle I don't have any different feeling.
You are parsing words no offense.
Does it mean 7% or 8% or 8% to 10%? The answer is the midpoint is sort of an 8% kind of rate increase.
And so we are really quite optimistic.
And I guess we typically don't break out this level of detail but if we look at our rate monitoring for domestic insurances it's pretty much there right now.
So the 6.5% that we shared with you includes activities outside of the United States.
If we focus solely on insurance in the U.S.
it's right where we're talking about it would be.
Got it.
And maybe just going back to the discussion previously on a new entrant in this space.
Can you sort of refresh us or maybe just talk about what impact you might be seeing from the new entrant? What company are you talking about? We all know what it is.
I mean are you seeing the team or is that a matter of accounts...
There is no new entrant in our space.
That's why [indiscernible].
If you're talking about Berkshire Hathaway they're in a lot of people's space but generally not in our space.
They may come in some of our space but our space is much more people-intensive broker-intensive.
They're not interested in our space.
They have few good people writing large risks.
It's not the heart of what we do.
Our biggest risk is probably not big enough to be their smallest risk.
Will they eventually move into areas that we do business? Could well be.
But for now they're just not in our space.
Our next question comes from Josh Shanker from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> More of my questions for Gene.
I wanted to walk through a little bit of the book value per share move between this quarter and last quarter.
I assume it's obviously mostly investment losses and whatnot but can we go to where that's happening? Where the investment declines are? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Is that munis? Is that corporate? Is that across the whole book? It's across the book.
Munis and corporates would be the majority of it because that's where a lot of our investments are but it's across the book fixed income book.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And does that mean and maybe it's a counter for better pricing that it's going to be difficult to grow book value in a rising and straight environment? I mean obviously we know that's true intuitively but is that -- is this quarter anomalistic? Or does a 35-basis-point increase in rates eat up and then some of possibly book value growth? We don't believe that in a short period towards the end of the quarter 65- or 75-basis-point change in interest rates is sort of a normal change.
And we don't think it's continuing.
Clearly if we have 65- or 75-basis-point increase in rates given the short duration of our portfolio and new cash flow our rising investment income would very quickly offset that.
And obviously we've kept a relatively modest duration in our portfolio.
So it's painful but it's reality.
There's good and there's bad.
Higher investment income and your unrealized gains go down in your bond portfolio but that's how life is sometimes.
Research Division</strong> And on the currency translation given -- I'm just surprised there was a...
I'm sorry.
I can't hear you.
Research Division</strong> On the currency translation I'm surprised there was a currency translation gain in the P&amp;L in such a tough quarter.
Maybe there's something behind it that I don't understand? Well nobody gave us any credit for the fact that sterling went down at the end of last quarter.
It came back in the past quarter and that was the biggest single part of it.
We have a lot of money invested in sterling.
We also have some foreign branches that have their functional currencies their local currency and they have investments in U.S.
dollars.
And in the case of the Australian branch for example the U.S.
dollar appreciated in that's FX gain for them.
Our next question comes from Greg Locraft from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on -- I think you had mentioned the expense ratio was going to begin improving more than -- it is improving now and we see a pickup in that in the back half.
I just wanted to clarify.
Did you mention that's going to be as much as 100 basis points in say 3Q 4Q? No.
No we didn't say that.
I think what we said was that we were pleased that the improvement in the expense ratio was what it was.
And we think that it's an example of exactly what we said would happen as the earnings continue to build and we could leverage the platform.
Furthermore it's our expectation as that earnings continues to build that you will see further benefit coming through.
And the specific we said was we expected the improved loss ratio and expense ratio would end resulting in probably a couple of hundred basis point improvement in the combined ratio by the time we got to the fourth quarter.
I'll just add that I think 0.75-point improvement in the expense ratio over 1-year period is in line with our expectation.
It's not bad.
Remember you've only got sort of 10% -- sorry 1/3 of your expenses that are going to improve because the commissions sort of stay where they are.
So it's only the 12% to 13% that's left that's going to improve as a result of the earned premium increases.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then something that was in the release I don't know if it was mentioned in the commentary but you mentioned I guess some capital gains for the balance of the year.
And I think in the past you had some private equity stuff coming through.
Do you anticipate more harvesting or something? Or...
We have said to people that we expect continued capital gains in the balance of the year.
We've had in excess of $50 million of capital gains so far this year.
We would expect certainly some level of additional capital gains.
You never can time those exactly but there will be some certainly this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So continuation there.
Okay great.
And then the last is just -- more just stepping back.
If you'd set out in '10 and said you get 18% cumulative pricing here we are 3 years hence if you just look static at the combined ratio projected for '13 versus '10 there's not a whole lot of improvement a couple hundred bps but it's not what I would have thought plus 18%...
The answer to your question is we think we've probably been a little cautious in examining where things are.
And we would expect that more of that result will come through to the bottom line as we are more comfortable with this lower inflation rate -- lower medical cost inflation rate particularly than we had anticipated.
We have assumed a fairly higher medical inflation rate in our reserving than has in fact come out.
So you'll see as we have become more certain that that is not going to come and bite us.
I think some of that 18% will become visible in our reported numbers over the next 12 to 18 months.
The 18% is a written calculation though in our basis price increase will be a little less.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So Bill that will be -- well I guess if the current medical loss trend holds then it would come through as higher reserve releases? There's some improvement to come as there were some caution and concern over what would happen in all of the changes in our medical issues and health care issues.
And there was caution in our part in our reserving for that part of our book of business which is not insignificant.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Will it come through as a reserve release or as an accident year? No no no.
Come on.
Our next question comes from Vinay Misquith from Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> The first question would be the impact actually of Berkshire.
We know that they don't play in the same lines of business that you guys play but just curious on the overall market impact.
Do you think that your competitors would now seek to write smaller business? And how hard is that going to be for them to do that? First of all the skills and distribution required to write the kind of business we do is really quite different than what they do.
Second of all Berkshire is going to write at a profit.
My friend Mr.
James [ph] is absolutely determined to get his share of the market but not I emphasize not at any cost.
He's going to write the business where he thinks he can make money.
And nobody should be afraid of that competition.
He's going to give good service give good capacity.
And he's going to want to share the market and he's going to do it through those basis.
But he's not going to be a price cutter.
Some people have entered the business to buy their share.
I think Berkshire by and large is going to try and do it in other ways using their capacity their credit and their ability to put large lines down.
But I don't think most of the people we compete with have the market position or the underwriters to move down to write smaller risks.
Eventually could that be a problem? Of course.
Eventually they all can write personal lines too and then you should worry about State Farm and Allstate.
But for now I think they're going to have a battle.
And I think it's more likely that some of the non-Berkshire companies may decide to cut price to hold onto market.
But I don't think Berkshire is going to be a market leader in pricing.
I think they're going to be -- try to be a market leader in capacity and quick answers because that's something they have.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Fair enough.
I mean my concern was more about the non-Berkshire companies than the Berkshire companies.
I'm not really worried there.
A bunch of them that compete in that area they don't compete with us.
And it takes a huge amount of infrastructure and lots of people and lots of systems to write the kinds of business we write.
It just isn't the same thing.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
The second question is on the top line growth in the domestic insurance.
We've seen the gross written premiums sort of slow down over the last 3 quarters.
Just curious what's happening there.
And do you expect to continue to slow down for the near term? Rob? I think that we have seen -- we have seen a little bit of a slowdown.
Having said that there's nothing as far as market conditions go that lead us to believe that you're going to see the growth slow down altogether.
Obviously we're getting healthy rate which on its own is going to help drive the growth.
And as we've seen margins get to the point that we find particularly attractive we'll be working very hard to try and add policy count and we as a group are all on board with that idea.
I think part of the slowdown in the growth has to do with some of the startup companies.
As we've discussed with you and others in the past when the companies first started in their infancy there's a fair bit of low-hanging fruit that they're able to grab because of prior relationships and then they have to work through it every day like everyone else.
I think some of that low-hanging fruit is gone and now we're out there chopping away just like everybody else trying to build a business in an intelligent way.
I think the big driver of growth is going to be how much rates move up and when we start to see more and more parts of the marketplace get to the point that we think the margin that's available is particularly attractive and then we will be opening up the spigot even wider.
But putting all that aside our goal has always been a focus on profitability and that's going to continue to be the case.
We like to grow as much as we can but it's always a goal of profitability first.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Just one numbers question.
For the net investment income on the core portfolio can you give us a breakdown between the fixed income real estate and equities please if you have the number? What we've disclosed in the release is the arbitrage return and the fund return in then the core portfolio.
I don't have a further breakdown for that for the rest of the portfolio here but we'll have some more of that in the 10-Q.
And you're welcome to call.
Our next question comes from Michael Nannizzi from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just have one question first off.
I saw a lift in reinsurance premiums in the quarter.
It's a little bit more than we expected.
Could you just talk about first off maybe what drove the change for you? And second if you could just give a little context on what you're seeing in that market.
I'm assuming most of that is casualty reinsurance business.
But if you could just give us a little context that would be great.
Rob? Yes.
First the lift in the reinsurance that was primarily coming as a result of growth in our reinsurance activities outside the U.S.
And probably the lion's share of that growth outside of the U.S.
from the reinsurance segment was coming from our European operations as it's getting up and running.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then as far as your growth otherwise I mean are you growing in areas where you're seeing exposure growth in areas where you're seeing the most rate? Or how should we think about what's driving top line growth whether it's in that reinsurance segment or elsewhere? Is it rate or...
No.
We write very little property cat in our reinsurance portfolio.
That's not something that we choose to focus on.
We write a little bit of it but not in a big way hence that's why you consistently see us underwrite it as far as natural catastrophe as when you look at what our results are compared to most organizations of our scale.
So that's by design.
The growth as I suggested earlier is mainly -- or it's more than half at this stage coming as a result of rate.
And then where we find attractive margins that's where we are trying to expand the business from an account or exposure perspective as well.
Those opportunities present themselves Mike both domestically as well as outside of the U.S.
both in the casualty lines as well as some of the property-like shorter tail lines.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I think you also alluded too a bit in your comments Rob the amount of your business and forgetting reinsurance obviously but the amount of your business that is syndicated business so primary access versus just Berkley writing in a whole risk policy.
Yes.
I don't have the specific number off the cuff but I would suggest to you that the lion's share of what we do is from a policy count perspective is where we write the whole risk.
So for example approximately close to 90% of our policy count are policies that have a limit or capacity of $2 million or less so don't hold me exactly to those numbers but it's pretty close.
So when the comment was made earlier that we play in a different part of the universe than many of these other commercial markets that hopefully puts it in perspective.
And by the way you can extend that there's probably 98% of our policy count that's $5 million or less.
So it doesn't -- it's really very small number of policies that are out there and compete where the Berkshires and the AIGs for the most part compete.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Got it.
And then just one last one just on the balance sheet a bit here.
So debt to cap if my count is right it's about 33%.
So that's up a little bit from some new debt and then the negative impact of AOCI and then I guess the buybacks.
That's a relatively high level for you.
If I look back historically I think it was higher last year.
It was close to that level last year.
But if I remember right you guys have prefunded some debt at the beginning of '12 that was set to mature later in the year.
How should we think about that I mean in terms of propensity for buybacks or the potential impact of further negative marks if rates continue to rise? Where are you comfortable with that number being? And...
We're at the high end now.
I think that we wouldn't want to go consequentially more than this.
If we went to 34% would it be all right? It was -- because of market bonds to market that's consequential risk we take.
But in general the stock buyback came.
It was a reflection of our capital gains that we realized outside of our ordinary income stream and that's sort of how we look at buybacks at the moment.
We think our capital base is sort of at the leverage point where we're okay but we would expect it to start to come down.
But everything also depends on the level of risk at any moment in time.
We actually see the risk in the business at the moment declining because we see opportunities that will present themselves.
So we think our underwriting margins will expand.
So our returns will go up so therefore the risk relative to leverage compared to returns will be better.
By the way that ratio I think is closer to 32% to 33% at the moment.
And our goal is to sort of move it down from there closer to the 30% level or...
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I mean I guess the question will be I mean if rates do continue to go up I mean I would imagine that we'll continue to see that mark-to-market come through for you and for others.
Do you weigh that less? Or did the rating agencies or whoever you're kind of -- you want to make sure is satisfied with that is that a factor that you'll kind of take into consideration separately? Or is that kind of all baked into your hope to kind of -- or expectation to kind of have that quotient gravitate lower? Everything is baked in because if it wasn't we wouldn't be doing our job.
That said we have a relatively short duration portfolio.
It's 3.2 3.3 years.
And that's after our various mortgage portfolios' durations moving up a little with everything else moving down.
And they moved up because as interest rates move up the duration on those things could extend.
So we think we're in pretty good shape.
We have pretty good cash flow not great cash flow.
We think cash flow is going to pick up.
So we think that the duration is moving down.
And therefore automatically as we move towards the end of the year that duration is going to come down our cash position to reinvest at higher rates assuming rates really move up significantly.
But honestly we're worried about inflation less today than we were yesterday.
And we think the positive impacts on inflation in our business would be much greater than the negative impact on inflation on our bond portfolio.
Historically this is a business that has done much better in inflationary times than otherwise.
So yes we have that concern and we certainly have that worry.
But if we start to earn the kinds of money we expect we can certainly handle any impact of the decline to bond portfolio without any worry at all.
Our next question comes Scott Heleniak from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> You guys formed a new unit in the quarter.
Obviously you're optimistic about the market.
But are you seeing a lot of opportunity to add new units in 2014 assuming market conditions are kind of standing where they are? Or is that mostly just going to be kind of a ramp of the existing units that you've had in place for the past few years? Scott this is Rob.
From my perspective I think in all likelihood you're going to see a fair bit of organic growth through existing operations over the next several quarters.
As far as new operations we certainly are constantly talking to people.
We try and be selective.
It's hard to know exactly what opportunities will present themselves tomorrow or not.
So it's difficult to speculate as to whether we'll be starting many or few or no new operations next year.
But certainly we've continued to be out there and open to discussions.
But many of them certainly we would expect there will be meaningful growth coming from the already established companies.
I think Scott it's more likely given that we see it is that we're going to find groups of people or pieces that we would add to where we are or what we're doing as opposed to whole new units.
We have lots of units that can expand and find opportunities to do things.
So I don't think you're going to see as many new units if any over the next 12 to 18 months.
But we may add groups of people who fit into one of our other businesses.
So you shouldn't take that we're not going to be out there seeking and talking to teams of people.
So it just looks likely there'll be new units.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Sure.
That's helpful.
And then just a quick question on the revenue from the wholly owned investées.
That's been up quite a bit year-over-year for this year.
Just wondering if there's -- is there a lot of seasonality in that line? I know it's mostly private -- I think private equity aviation investments.
Is that a good run rate to use? It is.
The aviation business made an acquisition and it's running at a much higher rate than it did last year.
So I think that third quarter is a good -- second quarter rather is a good indication of how it's going to run through the balance of the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And then just a last question just on the investment portfolio.
Do you expect to see -- obviously you don't know what the market is going to do but do you expect to see corporates kind of continue to move up as a percent of portfolio as munis then move down as a percent of portfolio which is I guess what we've seen in the last year and a half? In fact recently it went the other way of let's just say in the past 30 days we probably invested $150 million $175 million.
$100 million $125 million went to munis versus $50 million into corporates because that was the relative attractiveness.
It was wonderful.
Detroit declared bankruptcy and suddenly the whole municipal market was terrible for a short time.
And people redeemed their municipal bond mutual funds and there were opportunities.
So we're an opportunistic investor.
I think that overall at one point we had over 50% of our portfolio in munis.
We're not going to get there.
But as far as the balance going between let's just say 28% and 35% in the municipal market that's a function of opportunistic investments.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And did you have any exposure to the Detroit bankruptcy on the muni side? No.
And by the way I sort of chuckled a little about everyone talking about the $18 billion Detroit disaster but I think only $1 billion or $1.5 billion of that were municipal bonds the rest is the pension funds.
So it wasn't quite as big a disaster for the municipal market as people thought.
Our next question comes from Jay Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
The first one was just numbers one that I missed.
The share buybacks in the quarter I know was modest.
What was the number of shares? 776 000.
Research Division</strong> And the total price Gene? $31 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately I guess the one line of business in the U.S.
that kind of jumps out as far as growth goes is other liability and that can mean so many different things to different companies.
I'm wondering if you can give us a little bit of insight into what's driving the growth in that line of business.
E&amp;S.
Research Division</strong> And what class is the business Rob? Yes.
Really Jay it's across the board.
It's across the board.
There is certainly some in the professional space as well as some in the excess and umbrella space as well.
Research Division</strong> You've suggested that you're seeing a shift into E&amp;S from standard markets.
Can you quantify at all what your submission activity looks like in your E&amp;S businesses? I don't have specific metrics to share with you on this call but certainly we are seeing signs of a growing number of submissions coming our way.
But unfortunately I'm sorry I don't have any specific metrics to share with you at the moment.
I'm showing no further questions at this time.
I'd like to hand the conference back over for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Well we thank you all.
We are exceedingly optimistic.
We think our numbers have been cautiously presented.
We've been a little more pessimistic than seems appropriate about our medical inflation.
And we expect that as we're more and more comfortable with where those numbers come out I expect that it will result in more positive outcomes for the balance of the year and into next year.
Thank you all very much.
Have a great evening.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may all disconnect.
And have a wonderful day.
Good day and welcome to the W.R.
Berkley Corporation Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
The speakers' remarks may contain forward-looking statements.
Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words including without limitation believes expects or estimates.
We caution you that such forward-looking statements should not be regarded as a representation by us that the future plans estimates or expectations contemplated by us will be in fact achieved.
Please refer to our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and our other filings made with the SEC for a description of the business environment in which we operate and the important factors that may materially affect our results.
W.R.
Berkley Corporation is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any such obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
William R.
Berkley.
Please go ahead sir.
All right good morning.
We're pleased with the quarter and the direction of things.
We'll start our call with Rob talking about our operating results then he'll turn the call over to Gene and then I'll continue trying to give you a summary and take questions.
So Rob the floor is yours.
Good morning.
Market conditions in the third quarter by and large were a continuation of the trend that we've seen over the past several quarters.
The casualty market and the workers' comp market continue to benefit from rate increases.
The professional markets on the other hand continue to be a bit of a mixed bag with EPL pricing as well as private and non-for-profit D&amp;O getting significant rate increases lawyers also getting rate increases.
Having said that public D&amp;O remains also very much bifurcated between the primary and the excess with the primary getting meaningful rate increases while the excess remains somewhat flat.
On the other end of the spectrum the medical space no pun intended is somewhat of a bloodbath quite frankly with rates continuing to fall off and the other miscellaneous D&amp;O is also exceptionally competitive.
In our opinion the professional space is probably some 12 to 24 months behind the casualty market when you think about it from the cycle.
The property market continues to fray around the edges.
Clearly a result of a lack of cat activity along with the increasing supply of reinsurance capacity.
These 2 factors are clearly putting a fair amount of downward pressure on pricing.
Now if we can turn our attention more specifically to our operations.
Rate adequacy continues to be a priority for us.
We are pleased with the 6.4% of rates that we got during the quarter.
More specifically we got 7% of rate in our domestic insurance operations.
Yes it is very much the fact that the U.S.
market is ahead of many of the other markets outside of -- or around the world I should say as far as hardening.
Rate increases we believe will continue to move at this pace for the foreseeable future.
It's worth noting that this is the 11th quarter in a row where we were able to achieve rate.
And the compounding of this rate on rate if you will as we referenced in our press release is quite meaningful.
Obviously rate in a vacuum is something that one needs to be very careful of.
When we think about rate we need to make sure that we're not experiencing adverse selection as these higher rates are coming through.
Our renewal retention ratio is the tool that we look to to make sure that our rate increases are not creating this adverse selection.
And our renewal-retention ratio for the quarter remained at approximately 80% where it's been for the past several quarters.
The other tool that we look to on the topic of pricing is new business relativity what the rates are for our new business versus a similar exposure in our renewal book.
And based on this tool we're seeing that we continue to get a bit of a higher rate for new business versus renewal business and for the quarter it was approximately 2.3% higher.
Gross written premium for the quarter was $1.667 billion.
This is up 12% from the corresponding period.
Approximately half of that as you may have noticed was associated with rate.
The lion's share of the balance had to do with exposure increase.
Auto premiums was not particularly consequential.
All 3 segments contributed to the growth and more specifically 40 of our 47 underwriting operations contributed to the growth.
The loss ratio for the quarter was at 60.1% which is a 2-point improvement compared to last year.
We achieved this improvement in spite of the fact that we had $4 million more in cat losses.
On an accident year basis the improvement was at a similar level going from a 63.7% last year to a 61.5% this year.
Finally it's worth mentioning that we are seeing a continued improving trend with our paid-loss ratio and this certainly is an indicator from our perspective as to how the book is running.
In addition to that when we look forward at our policy year loss picks certainly we are seeing the benefit of the earned premium coming through over the foreseeable future at these higher rates.
With regards to the expense ratio it was basically flat and coming in at a 33.8%.
Gene is going to be touching on this shortly but to make a long story short we had a little bit of noise in there which he'll be speaking to.
If you back some of that out the improvement was probably give or take 0.5 point maybe a little bit more.
When you put all the pieces together we came in at a 93.9% which is an improvement of approximately 2 points.
And if you look at it on an accident year basis it's probably a similar level of -- or it is a similar level of improvement.
While our Chairman is going to be spending some time talking about our balance sheet shortly I did want to make a few comments as it relates to the topic of loss reserves.
Loss reserves are something that we take very seriously.
We have historically and continue to have an approach that we feel as though one needs to set initial reserves with taking -- with a cautious approach with the idea over time as more information becomes available you will tighten up those picks given the fact that you'll have better information.
The fact of the matter is that we are in a business where we do not know our cost of goods sold until after the sale has been made.
As a result of that we feel as though that it's important to take a very measured approach in setting those initial picks.
This is demonstrated by 27 quarters of positive reserve development which is quite consistent with our approach once again of initially being cautious with picks and tightening as things develop over time.
When we look out at the market we're surprised by the number of people that seem to be talking down the hardening of the market.
The fact of the matter is it's simple math and common sense that would suggest that rates need to go up further.
While we are aware of the comments that others are making in the marketplace we are focused on our actions and what we can do to build our business going forward.
Thank you Rob.
Gene you want to talk about the numbers a bit? Sure okay.
Thanks.
As Rob said we had another solid quarter highlighted by further improvement in our underwriting margins and increase in investment income compared with a year ago and significant capital gains.
Starting with the underwriting our net premiums were up 11.5% overall to $1.4 billion.
Net premiums for the domestic and reinsurance segments were each up 11% and the international premiums were up 18%.
Premium growth was led by our 2 largest lines of business other liability and workers' compensation which were up 18% and 13% respectively.
Our overall combined ratio for the quarter was 93.9% 2 points better than the third quarter of 2012 due to improvement in the underlying loss ratio.
That is the loss ratio before cat losses and reserve releases.
The underwriting loss ratio was 60.1% in the quarter compared to 62.1% a year ago.
The underlying loss ratio improved by 2.5 points each for the domestic and international segments and by 1 point for the reinsurance segment.
Just to repeat what we talked about in the call last quarter a 2-point improvement in the loss ratio is what you get when you do sort of a simple reasonable net test of the underwriting trends.
Prices were up 6.5% and if you assume a loss cost trend of something around 3% that gives you a net trend of 3.5 points.
And if you take our accident year loss ratio from the third quarter of '12 which was 64% and take 3.5% of that you get just right at 2-point improvement and that's what we're showing.
Back to the quarter then.
Catastrophe losses were $13 million or 1.0 loss ratio points compared to $9 million a year ago and favorable reserve development was $33 million or 2.3 loss ratio points up slightly from $28 million a year ago.
The favorable reserve development this quarter was concentrated in our domestic segment.
The overall expense ratio increased 0.1 point to 33.8% and the domestic segment expense ratio increased slightly over 1 point.
The reason for the domestic segment increase there's 3 main factors.
First we are earning less seeding commissions as a result of shifting some of our reinsurance programs from quota-share structures to excess-of-loss programs.
Second we incurred some one-time cost relating to reorganizing parts of our regional business in the quarter.
And third we're continuing to invest in new ventures including 2 start-up companies as well as several expansions into new products and territories within existing companies.
We expect the revenues from these new ventures to begin to increase in the fourth quarter of this year and offset that expense ratio trend.
Our paid-loss ratio for the quarter and for the year-to-date period was 54% and that's the lowest paid-loss ratio we've had since 2008.
That's the main reason for operating cash flow more than doubling in the quarter to over $300 million.
Our investment income was up 8% to $126 million in the quarter due primarily to higher returns for investment funds.
That increase was partially offset by a decline in fixed income returns due to lower reinvestment rates for bonds that are either maturing or being prepaid.
The overall annualized portfolio yield was 3.4% in the quarter up from 3.2% a year ago.
In addition realized investment gains were up 61% to $44 million in the quarter with a majority of those gains coming from the sale of equity securities.
At September 30 81% of our portfolio was invested in cash and fixed income securities unchanged from June 30.
The average duration was 3.2 years down from 3.3 years at June 30 and the average credit rating was unchanged at a AA-.
Our overall effective income tax rate increased to 30% in the quarter up from 27% for all of -- for the full year 2012.
That increase was due to a decline in the portion of the portfolio invested in municipal bonds.
Municipal bonds represent 27% of our overall portfolio at September 30 compared with an average of 34% in 2012.
So in total that adds up to net income of $137 million up 36% from a year ago and an annualized yield of 12.7%.
Thank you Gene.
Let me try and go through a few things that I think are highlights and important to make sure you understand about where we're going and what's going on and then take your questions.
First of all we see price increases continuing.
I had generally thought they would do a little better.
I had talked about 6% to 8% with a little more pressure on the upside.
There seems to be less pressure on the upside.
I would still use 6% to 8% as a range.
And in fact we are seeing some price increases significantly more than that but I would narrow the range.
I think it's going to be hard for us to have 8% going forward.
I think it's going to be more in the 6% to 7% range.
But there's more erratic behavior out there so there are some lines of business that we're seeing better increases.
So I'm not changing my view but I'm thinking that the 8% is less likely although I think we will be better than 6%.
So if I were to choose a number it would still be sort of 6.5% to 7.5% as opposed to 6% to 8%.
We still see across-the-board pressures less so on large commercial risks especially property risks.
The securitization of non-tail risks is having an impact on cat business and those large property risks.
There's lots of people who have investment portfolios who are looking for non-related risk profiles and therefore you're seeing an increase in cat bonds and other kinds of behaviors.
That's going to continue to impact back on the business.
We think that people are beginning to recognize that investment returns are going to stay at this lower level certainly for another 18 months if not longer.
And I'd rather we consider the level they need of underwriting profitability to achieve adequate rates of return.
Ever 100 basis points as we've said in loss investment income means you need give or take depending on the line of business 4% or 5% 6% 7% more in underwriting profit.
So whereas historically people would say if you're right at a 93% 94% 95% you'd get a good return today that number is 88% 90% kind of a number to get a good return on your capital.
So we think there'll be continued pressure on that and that's beside the fact that prices today when adjusted for the inflationary pressures on loss cost are still not even approaching where they were in 2004.
So you still have the need for pricing just to get back to those underwriting profits and that doesn't offset the need to make up for investment income.
We have been moving our investment portfolio around.
We've been changing where we put our money.
Our common stock portfolio is moving into a little bit different strategy.
You saw we sold a bunch of stock common stock.
It's being reinvested with a slightly different hedged strategy using other kinds of securities but basically it's back -- the common stock portion will be back up to where it was before maybe a little more in a slightly different strategy.
While we took down our municipal position and cash increased again it was a function of managing our portfolio.
You're likely to see our municipal bond portfolio increase primarily in the 7- to 10-year duration as that's where the yield curve for the moment is most attractive from our perspective.
And we're looking to expand that back up closer to the 30% part of our portfolio.
I think that overall though cash flow continues to be strong and we would not expect the duration of our portfolio to be anything short -- we would expect it to continue to be shorter than our liability duration.
While it might go from 3.2 to 3.4 years it's going to stay under the duration of our liabilities because inevitably out there that risk of inflation and increased interest rates is there.
So we're investing with a different set of criteria so we will have less money and fixed income securities and look for other ways to generate investment returns.
We continue to strive for and achieve gains of at least $25 million a quarter excluding our bond portfolio.
We think we'll be able to continue that for an extended period of time.
We've been able to do that for quite a while certainly helped by the secular boom market trends but made up partly of our private equity investments.
And we're quite pleased.
We think one of the best signs of looking at how our company is doing is focusing on the paid-loss ratio.
And our paid-loss ratio which sort of peaked in 2010 has continued moving downward quarter by quarter and we're pretty pleased with where we are now and we think it is likely to continue down.
It's a good sign and it's a good way to say our year loss peak's good.
The day was late.
It's a good absolute test.
The one thing you know in this business for sure is money and that paid-loss ratio is as good a test as you can get.
So we continue to be pretty optimistic.
I think that we see continued opportunities.
As Gene mentioned we had a couple of new startups.
We added operating units to some of our existing business.
It's been an excellent time to find great people interested in companies that are looking ahead instead of looking back.
Fortunately we're in that position.
So with that I'm very happy to take any questions.
The operator will start now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Amit Kumar of Macquarie Capital.
Two quick questions.
First is a broader question for Bill on the industry.
In terms of comments on aggressive competitors now we know that these things sort of take time to play out.
Do you get the sense that there might be some of these name spacing problems on the immediate horizon or are we talking more longer term? Well some of them have already faced the problems in there in the public domain Tower Meadowbrook Torus [indiscernible] that people already are facing their problems doing it.
There certainly are others that may not be in the same very difficult position of these companies but who are trying to deal with their problems who have plenty of capital but are saying gee we stepped in the wrong direction we made some wrong assumptions and are going to withdraw from the business.
And I think there's plenty of those.
And there certainly are a few more who have gone in wrong directions.
There are large global companies who always saw the grass being greener in other places and they found out it was AstroTurf.
And it didn't work out that well.
So I think that we've yet to see the dramatic changes these people are having to take.
But I think they're all starting to take -- the worst part -- one of the things that's interesting and I'll digress a moment is it was hard to believe that the peak pricing was in 2004 maybe early 2005 because the earned premium peaked the end of 2005 or early 2006.
But the peak pricing was the end of 2004 or early 2005.
Prices went down just a little bit and then in 2007 they started to go down faster.
But there are people who lost a lot of money and the worst losses probably were incurred in 2009 and 2010 because of the accumulation of those low prices.
And if you aggressively wrote business then you still were writing at terribly low prices in 2011 certainly the beginning of 2011.
So those people are just now having to face up to that low-pricing environment.
So I think there's quite a bit more of pain to go and a lot of people who are going to say what are we going to do and who are very very short on their reserves for those -- some of those things and are going to have to try to figure out a solution.
But everyone doesn't have to go out of business.
Some of the people are plenty well capitalized and have plenty of smart people.
They just have to face the reality that we have to do something.
There will be more however than the 3 I mentioned that will go out of business.
Got it.
That's helpful.
But the only other question I had and this one is for Rob you mentioned the new business relativity metric of 2.3%.
In Q2 that number was 3.6%.
And I'm sort of trying to figure out why would it decline that much? You mean why would the -- we're talking about I don't know what 100 basis points? Yes you have there when he said 2% a little over 2% or 3% it was 103% or 102%.
It's not very much there.
It's like charging $103 or $102.
Our next question is from Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Rob I guess there was one question -- or the one comment in the press release you talked about some standard carriers maybe stepping away from business that they were writing or some specialty business they were writing during the soft part of the market and maybe that's manifesting.
Can you give a little bit more context to that? I mean what sort of accident years calendar years are we talking about? And you just -- it doesn't seem at least well I haven't heard of standard carriers seeing a lot of adverse development in -- even in kind of subsegments.
Just wanted to get a little bit more context if I could.
Mike I think the answer to your question is that what we're seeing is it's just a greater number of submissions coming into the specialty market from the standard market.
Ultimately we saw people try -- looking back if you will probably starting in 2007 and 2008 and reflecting on the profitability from the prior years and their natural reaction is they want more so they start to cut rate loosen terms and conditions and broaden their overall appetite.
If you look at for example the casualty market and certainly some of the stuff that we participate in if you figure that the average duration of the reserves is 3-plus years it takes a little bit of time for that to come into focus.
And what we've been seeing over the I don't know past several quarters is that's starting to come into focus more and more and as that is coming into focus it's forcing a change in behavior of some of the standard market.
And again it's manifesting itself by them beginning to revisit what their appetite is and again we're seeing more coming into the specialty market.
So it's interesting because you can see the bit of a tug of -- the internal tug of war of some of these -- particularly some of the larger carriers that typically operate in the standard market and their appetite has grown.
They tend to get the underwriting discipline back and ask their underwriters to be pushing for more rate and narrowing the appetite and then they see what it does to their top line and then they'll send another message sort of the next quarter so what they want them to do because they don't like it when the top line starts to fall off.
So as my father had mentioned earlier you're seeing a little bit of mixed behavior where people are struggling with what their appetite should be.
But by and large we continue to see a increasing level of discipline in the standard market hence the specialty market is getting more of a crack at things.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I guess -- and just kind of looking at your growth I mean can you talk about the areas where you're growing kind of the attributes of the business that you like that is causing you pursue growth versus the areas where you're seeing the most rate Mike? So is it -- if we were to like which we can't see but if we were to kind of try and compare those areas that are showing the biggest the most growth versus the areas we're gaining the most rate is there a relationship there a positive relationship there or are there other factors involved? I think clearly there is a relationship between growth and margin if you will.
And oftentimes there is a relationship between rate that can be achieved and the margin that you believe you will obtain.
Obviously for our purposes we're very focused on making an underwriting profit and we're pleased to see that there are certain lines and classes where we're getting to the point where there's very much a green light and we will not just be growing because of rate but we will become more aggressive if things continue down the path that they've been on in trying to add to exposure or policy count.
I think as far as getting very granular as to where we see the best opportunities typically that's not something that we've looked to highlight because we don't think it's in our shareholders' best interests to advertise where we think our best margins are today or where they will be tomorrow.
But what I would suggest to you is that oftentimes where the market has gotten the ugliest is oftentimes where you will see the greatest or the most severe reaction and the pendulum will swing farthest going in the other direction and you just need to make sure that you don't jump back in prematurely.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I guess more specifically like with the international segment I mean that's been in a kind of double-digit mid-teens sort of growth trajectory for several quarters now.
I mean I know...
Yes.
As far as the international goes there's really been a couple of things that have been driving that growth.
One would be some of the markets that we're in where their economies are doing particularly well and they have been for several years.
So whether that's in Australia or whether that's in some of the Scandinavian territory Norway for example.
Certainly Germany has fared much better than a lot of Europe and there has been particular opportunities in the auto space.
But -- and then of course we've seen some opportunities in Latin America even though that does come with its complexity as well.
So again the growth outside of the U.S.
has been primarily as far as insurance goes related to the strength of some of the economies around the world.
And as far as reinsurance and the growth that we've had there that has more to do with quite frankly the reinsurance operation that we started in Europe and which has gotten some good initial traction.
And again our reinsurance business down in Australia that rates in Asia they have gotten a pretty good bump as well because of the general economic conditions of that territory of the world.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one real quick one if I could.
In the domestic segment which it sounds like that was the lion's share of development can you just talk about either the lines of business or the accident years that drove that favorable development? Yes sure.
I think as far as that goes and the details what we would suggest is that you follow up with Gene if you wouldn't mind or Karen as to some of the more detail or minutia and we'll share with you what we can at a more granular level Mike.
Our next question is from Josh Shanker of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you can give us some more information about the noninsurance aviation businesses.
They had a very good quarter from a profit standpoint and I really don't know a lot about those businesses so I could use an education.
It's just an investment.
It's a business that we invest in as we've invested in other businesses and we carry the costs.
And frankly it's not a fabulous return.
It's an okay return.
It just suffered a lot in the economic decline and it's returning to doing sort of what we expected.
It refurbishes parts.
It sells parts globally.
It has a couple of FBOs.
It sells used and new airplanes.
But there's nothing -- there's nothing extraordinary about it.
It's really returned back to the level it was at but it's doing well.
We have really outstanding people and most of -- many of their competitors didn't survive the economic downturn at all.
Research Division</strong> Do you think that the 3Q '13 result is closer to run rate than the last few quarters? Yes.
We would think it would be closer yes.
Our next question is from Vinay Misquith of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> The first question is on the impact of some competitors taking large charges.
So we've seen that recently.
Are you surprised that you've not seen a corresponding sort of increase in pricing in the industry because you have some comparison the weaker competitors taking charges? You know the reality is trying to figure out what your competitors do is a Rubik's Cube.
We look at what we see and know is going on out in the field and we wonder how that corresponds with their day-to-day behaviors.
So yes it is strange to us about things like that.
But some of our most aggressive competitors are facing problems in the business they wrote.
And we don't see them dealing with those problems but we know they will.
They have to eventually.
It does take time for bad results to get reported in financial statements.
But eventually they do get there and so we have plenty of companies that are out there that have problems that they have not dealt with then will come home to roost.
And in some cases as the 2 companies I mentioned they may not have the resources to deal with them fully but in others they have the resources but it will be a painful process.
The real question is will people try and solve the process or will they behave like ostriches and stick their heads in the ground and pretend they don't exist? And so they are unavoidable at which time you have crises.
Research Division</strong> All right.
The second question is just a few numbers question.
First is on the net investment income.
The yield on the core portfolio was lower than we expected.
I think you mentioned that you're increasing the duration of the municipal portfolio.
No.
We're going to.
That was a pro -- that was a -- I was forecasting not -- that is not where we are now.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
So just looking into the future should we expect a roughly flattish? I would think our net yields will not go down.
Part of that decline is we have a lot more cash than we've usually had.
We had over $1 billion of cash yielding 0.25%.
So that has a huge impact on our yield.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
So the fact that you are putting more money into munis you think will sort of fall as...
I would expect our returns will not go down next quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the tax rate that was higher this quarter I believe also because of higher -- I mean a lower proportion of munis.
Should we look at the 31% effective tax rate as the run rate or should that go down especially because your [indiscernible]...
I would surely hope it goes down but that's going to be a question of how quick we can get more invested in munis.
And there's a -- tax rate is a complicated series of issues and you can also -- pardon me? Because you've got to mention it's also impacted by the size of the realized gains.
The realized gains are all taxed at 35% and that was a pretty big number this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
So you think that a normalized tax rate would be sort of high 20s do you think? Gene is shaking his head because the microphone obviously has a camera.
Yes.
I was shaking it.
Yes.
Our next question is from Greg Locraft of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask about capital deployment.
You haven't done much in the way of buybacks in recent quarters.
If that trend continues it'll be the lowest than -- 2013 will be the lowest year in many years.
How are you thinking about buybacks these days? As you know Greg we don't really tell people what we're going to do about buying back stock.
Last year and you may recall we paid a dividend a special $1 a share dividend because we had extra capital.
We're going to try -- we try and measure how much capital we have what we do and where are the opportunities.
And we make that assessment and try to weigh that over the alternative of dividend buying back stock and opportunities to deploy the capital in the business.
And we would expect to continue to do that.
When the time -- when the stock traded down we bought some stock back.
It traded up we didn't.
So we're continuing that same strategy.
We think we have more capital than we need at the moment.
But we think aggressively buying stock back at the moment may not be the right thing.
We think that they're likely are going to be some opportunities to do something and we also need to weigh the opportunities of returning cash in the form of a special dividend or increasing the regular dividend if we find we can't buy back stock.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess since you brought it up the special dividend was that sort of a -- was the timing on that designed around the increase in tax rates? Or is that opening up a new kind of avenue for you to do it at the current stock valuation? Is that something you'd like to...
We have always told people that there's a trade-off that managing capital is a key element in the property casualty business.
Opportunities to use the capital in the business one.
Two buying back stock or dividends special or increase regular dividends.
And I think that that continues to be the issues we face.
At that moment in time the tax issues certainly impacted us to make that decision.
It made it a more effective use of a special dividend.
But it's still the issue on the table that we have to think about.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Ken Billingsley of Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on some comments that were made twice just regarding pricing and your look back to 2004 profitability.
And when you talk about the continued need for pricing obviously the rates are not moving as quickly up as they did before.
Do you at least believe that that 2004 profitability levels for underwriting are achievable -- unachievable given just where capital is in the market? No.
We think you can achieve the profitability levels of 2004.
But what we're trying to say is that even if you get the underwriting returns then you're not going to get the return on capital that you had then because interest rates are so much lower.
So yes I think that -- I think the prices will continue up for another at least 18 months if not longer at which time I think you'll probably be approaching pricing -- underwriting profitability levels of 2004.
However even when you're at that level you're not going to have the overall profitability levels you had in 2004 because investment income is going to be down substantially.
LLC Research Division</strong> And regarding the new capital that's come in obviously it's from -- as you said from the lines that don't have a tail.
But do you feel that that pressure is going to be put on those reinsurers and international companies to deploy that capital into lines that may again more compete directly with standard market business even in the special market as well? How long a story do you want? LLC Research Division</strong> How long do you have? Not long enough on this conference call.
So I'll briefly tell you that when this company went public 40 years ago the 15th -- or the 16th the day of the Arab oil embargo.
I can still sitting -- remember sitting at my desk and writing the forecast for EF Hutton about what we would do and how we would do it.
And I changed one little number and it was an amazing change in the return on capital.
And I changed it 0.5%.
And who could argue with a 0.5% change? And I suddenly realized how fallacious forecasts in this business were because you made these small assumptions and you built everything around them.
I think these capital suppliers who are entering the business entirely based on models and forecasts are going to find out that human judgments actually are of value and important.
And a number of them will get badly burned as they step away from the highly forecastable pieces of the business to other parts.
So yes they may step and put their toe in the water in other things and I can assure you it will be extremely costly and short-lived.
Our next question is from Jay Cohen of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
A couple of questions I guess for Gene.
Gene in your prepared remarks you had talked about the accident year loss ratio by segment or the change from the year ago.
Could you go over those again? I missed those numbers.
And what were you referring to exactly? Research Division</strong> I believe you talked about the improvement in the accident year loss ratio excluding catastrophes by segment.
He did.
Right.
By segment I did.
I said that the underlying loss ratio improved by 2.5 points for the domestic and international segments and by 1 point for the reinsurance segment.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
The other question was in the press release.
As you talked about improving returns you mentioned the expense ratio.
As you think about the expense ratio going forward and any improvement is it largely simply a function of maybe less investments and simply growth in the business or are you taking more specific action to reduce the expense ratio? Let me talk about a few things.
There were some expenses that were unique and were likely to recur going forward.
That will probably take maybe between $5 million and $6 million out that won't happen going forward.
In addition there was probably $3 million to $4 million of expenses for businesses that generated effectively no revenue.
That will have corresponding revenue to some degree in the fourth quarter although that will still not get up to speed.
It will have a less impactful aspect on the fourth quarter and going forward.
So those 2 things are more measurable.
The change in the reinsurance is going to continue to be impacted as we move from quota share to excess for a number of lines of business.
That will be offset over a 12-month period somewhat as we get more earned premium because the nature of taking a quota share to an excess is we'll get more earned premium.
But it takes more time to get that through the financial statement.
All that being said we are also trying to focus to be sure that while expenses never were a cornerstone to any insurance company's success and we don't think it's the guidepost to being a successful company we do want to be sure we haven't gotten sloppy and that we're paying attention.
Do we have the right numbers of people and the right people and the right structures everyplace to ensure that we're doing the right job? So I think that all that together what we expect will be continued growth in premiums.
So I think it's a bunch of different things Jay.
But we would think that you'd very quickly see a substantial improvement in the dollars and a measurable improvement in the expense ratio.
Our next question is from Larry Greenberg of Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess Bill just a bit of an academic question.
I'm looking at the paid-loss ratio which I too have always thought is an important indicator.
But I always thought that was best analyzed in kind of a stable book of business and the reality is you guys have added so many new ventures that I'm wondering -- I mean obviously you know the numbers behind the numbers a lot better than we do.
But doesn't it make it more difficult to rely on that as an indicator from the outside when there's so many new activities going on? Why don't I make -- I'll let Rob make a comment and then I'll add on it.
Go ahead Rob.
I think the observation is a very fair one that you need to take into account whether it's a stable environment or whether you have a bit of apples and oranges.
Having said that when we're able to look into our business obviously in a different way than you're able to and we look at it on an apples-to-apples basis the trend is quite apparent.
Then the other comment that I would share with you is that when we look at our mature businesses because again when you're looking at the younger businesses that are growing a bit more but when we look at our mature businesses I mean look at what's happening with claim counts we certainly are seeing things move in a positive direction.
And in part that's a result of the underwriting actions beyond just rate increases that we have been taking over the past several years.
I think the other thing is I don't think you can look at a paid-loss ratio as an independent thing.
I think that when we look at it what we really do is -- and we go back all the way to 2006 and we look at the incurred-loss ratio to the paid-loss ratio and look at how they relate and what are those trends.
So what we're trying to say is "Hey if your paid-loss ratio seems to be getting out of line one way or the other with your incurred that probably means you're not reserving enough.
If your paid-loss ratio is moving in the other direction it probably means you're being more conservative." And one of the interesting things is when the cycle gets worse it absolutely says you're not being more conservative and your paid-loss ratio goes up.
And when the cycle gets better it's the reverse.
And this -- you could have heard me give this speech in 1986.
I gave the same speech but we were a lot smaller company so nobody paid attention to me but same speech.
So I think the answer is the paid-loss ratio taken alone independently doesn't tell you anything.
It's when you look at it with respect to the incurred-loss ratio and the direction of things because so many things can impact any number.
I mean it's a problem with the insurance business.
Any one number can -- means lots of different things.
You have to look at it in the context of lots of other pieces of information.
So for us it's that paid-loss ratio relative to the incurred because the incurred is what's in your financials.
So what you're really trying to say is "Does the incurred make sense?" So if you saw that paid-loss ratio going up and the incurred was not then you should worry.
If the incurred is going down and the paid is going down it's a good directional sign.
Our next question is from Howard Flinker of Flinker &amp; Co.
Bill you're right that forecasts are 179 180 degrees wrong except at the Fed where they're omniscient.
They're always right.
I've got a question for your memory Bill.
About 3 or 4 years ago when the rig in the Gulf of Mexico blew up in about 3 days or so you said you would pay all claims.
And it seemed like a pretty foresightful idea to acquire more customers.
From your memory did that pay off? Yes.
The answer is our guy who ran that business is named Frank Costa.
He did a wonderful job.
And he was a real expert in the business.
And he went out and in fact his vision was correct that people appreciate the fact that we stepped up and wrote a check and that business has grown.
He's done a wonderful job.
Our next question is from Ron Bobman of Capital Returns.
LLC</strong> I think Larry Greenberg might be the only person on this call who may have heard you in '86 make that statement Bill.
I had a question on reinsurance and I'm wondering if you're seeing in the context of Berkley buying reinsurance? Any knock-on effect whereby traditional reinsurers are showing themselves to be more aggressive and more competitive in selling intermediate- and longer-tail reinsurance coverages by virtue of the more competitive and shortage of opportunities for them to sell the shorter-tail new capital-focused line? I think Rob will have comments in addition to mine on this.
But I would say that the reinsurance marketplace is still reasonably disciplined but on the longer-tail lines but it is certainly more competitive than the direct side of the business.
And everyone is feeling the pressure of new capital entrants and concerned about where and how that's coming.
That's why Berkshire Hathaway went into the large E&amp;S business because they felt the pressure of capital.
A big capital account wasn't enough just to get the business any longer.
There were lots of people competing for that.
Rob your view just thoughts? All right.
I think generally speaking clearly there is more competition that has come into the property cat space.
Trying to draw a clear correlation between the behavior of many reinsurers as a result of some of this alternative capital coming into the property cat space and how that's driving a -- possibly a change in behavior in the casualty market I think it's probably a little bit early to reach a conclusion.
So as I said I think there's pressure but it's not -- you're not showing anything dramatic other than in the cat space.
Our next question is from Bob Farnam of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just -- can you provide any color maybe on the 2 new start-ups that you're talking about? One would be -- Gene these were in your comments.
I assume that the ones that you're referring to is design professional within the architecture and engineering space? And the -- a regional company in the Southeast.
And then of course our new regional business which we -- I believe we announced perhaps last quarter but it's still getting in the process of up and running this quarter which will be focused on the Southeast.
And as we've discussed in the past when we've chatted about our regional model we feel as though one of the differentiators between a regional model and a national carrier is a focus on a particular territory.
And we have reshuffled a couple of things so we will have an operation that's dedicated to the Southeast.
And also as a result of that we will be able to focus another operation even moreso on the Mid-Atlantic and another regional company on its core territory.
So those are the 2 start-ups.
It's architects and engineers and it's the formation which I believe again we had announced last quarter in the Southeast.
Our next question is a follow-up from Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick follow-up on the international segment again.
I'm sorry to keep asking on this.
But the underlying combined as you said was 250 basis points better.
How much did noncat weather contribute to that year-over-year improvement? For the international segment? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well the noncat -- the cat activity was minimal in both last -- the third quarter of last year and the third quarter of this year.
So that didn't impact it...
No significant improvement because of...
Research Division</strong> Like the model Bob whatever the -- whatever large but not cat losses were that are inside the underlying was that -- that wasn't materially different? No sir.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess the question is then I mean is rate in excess of -- is it rate is running in excess of loss trend in that segment so that's what helped contribute to the margin expansion or is it mix or something else that helped to drive that year-over-year improvement? I'll take a crack and then I think Gene will probably correct me.
But I believe it certainly had something to do with rate.
It certainly had something to do with mix.
And then of course the other component as far as the combined ratio goes is the expense ratio is getting better as that earned continues to build.
As Mike you recall and we've referenced early in the call today we've had a reasonable amount of growth in that group of companies and we have for some number of years.
So we are really starting to see the benefit of that higher earned coming through and we're able to leverage that expense base with it.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I might have misheard.
I thought Gene had said it was 250 on the underlying loss.
Was that...
Right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay so it wasn't -- so it was mix and then...
Those 2 points -- in other words it was 2 points for the overall company and it was 2.5 points for international as they benefited a little bit more.
Their rates were not out of line with the rate increases for the rest of the business.
So it...
They also had some benefits from expense.
Rob was just adding the additional information.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
Okay.
And then just maybe my math might be faulty here.
But just from Gene's comments it looked like there was some adverse development there in the fourth quarter.
If that's right and like I said certainly my math can be wrong but if that's right is the driver of that development different than what it was in the third quarter? Well first of all it was the third quarter was the adverse development.
You said fourth.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No third.
No no no that would be -- yes sorry about that.
Third versus second.
I'm ahead of myself by a quarter.
And what was your question then? Research Division</strong> I guess what was the driver of that development? So there was adverse development in the second quarter and then if my math is right there was some adverse development in the third quarter.
[indiscernible] Yes.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Were those similar drivers of -- in terms of what caused that adverse development or is it just individual policies here or there? Yes it's similar.
It was a modest amount.
It wasn't any difference between where it was coming coming from the same source basically.
Research Division</strong> And that was as a book of business that was which area? I don't think we've mentioned it.
I'm showing no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back over to management for closing remarks.
All right.
Well thank you all very much.
We appreciate -- we're quite enthusiastic about the balance of the year.
Clearly capital management is on the forefront as we go forward.
We expect continued price increases and as I said I sort of bring my band a little closer from 6% to 8% down to sort of 6.5% to 7.5%.
But we're quite optimistic and expect the balance of the year and next year to generate returns well within the range of our expectations and continue to have capital gains in line with the recent past.
So thank you all very much.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thanks for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good day and welcome to the W.R.
Berkley Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
The speakers' remarks may contain forward-looking statements.
Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words including without limitation believes expects or estimates.
We caution you that such forward-looking statements should not be regarded as representation by us that the future plans estimates or expectations contemplated by us will be in fact achieved.
Please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and with our other filings made with the SEC for a description of the business environment in which we operate and the important factors that may materially affect our results.
W.R.
Berkley Corporation is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any such obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
William R.
Berkley.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Kate.
Good morning.
We're really pleased with where things are going.
We're pleased with the environment and the opportunities that we see.
We're pleased not only because we see opportunities going forward but we see -- pleased because we see the issues that are problems and we feel we have solutions that will allow us to move forward.
So we're going to start with Rob talking about the business then Gene talking about our numbers and follow up with me talking more of an overview and then take questions.
So Rob you're up.
Okay.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
During the fourth quarter market conditions were notably split between the world of insurance and the world of reinsurance.
Insurance market particularly the domestic insurance market was for the most part consistent with what we have seen in the past quarter or 2.
Property pricing continues to erode gradually.
Professional's a mixed bag and it varies depending on the class and it varies oftentimes between primary versus excess.
For example medical remains quite competitive.
Lawyers professionals offering opportunity for rate increase.
D&amp;O within itself is very mixed on the public side.
Primary is offering opportunity for rate.
Excess seems to be somewhat flat.
Not-for-profit and private D&amp;O there seems to be rate that continues to be available as well as EDLI.
Having said this general casualty and workers' comp continue to be the bright points.
We expect these trends to continue barring any unforeseen events into the foreseeable future.
The one exception maybe professional which in our opinion is likely to improve over the next several quarters.
On the other hand the treaty reinsurance market experienced an increase in competition like we haven't seen in sometime.
It started with an oversupply as many are aware in the property cat market that created somewhat of a feeding frenzy if you will which surprisingly actually spilled over into the casualty treaty market to a certain extent and created a bit of a downward spiral from a pricing perspective.
Additionally the environment for treaty reinsurers was somewhat compounded as far as the challenges both as a result of an ongoing shift or change in the buying habits and patterns of many leading companies.
It's unclear how this is going to fight out in the short run.
However it would seem reasonably clear that it will be challenging for the reinsurance market to achieve their desired long-term returns given where the current rating environment is.
With regards to the company net written premium for the fourth quarter of '13 was $1.36 billion.
This is an increase of 11% compared with the fourth quarter of '12.
The domestic insurance operations led this growth with more modest growth coming from our international insurance and reinsurance segment.
Of the 11 points of growth 5.7 were associated with rate increase and the balance coming from exposure.
The slight decline in rate increase is primarily due to a bit of a shift that we're directing within the organization with some of our operations that are achieving or exceeding our targeted returns on a policy-year basis.
Consequently we are refining the balance between rate that we are seeking versus growth as from an exposure perspective.
It's also worth mentioning our renewal retention ratio remains at approximately 80% which continues to give us comfort that the quality of the book is in no way being undermined and quite frankly it remains well in check.
The loss ratios improved appreciably to a 61.4%.
This includes 1.2 points of positive reserve development and tax were a little bit less than 1 point.
The paid-loss ratio was approximately a 52% which as we suggested in the past provides us a degree of comfort or an early indicator as to where the ultimate losses may come out.
The expense ratio remained essentially flat.
Having said this given the actions that we have taken in '13 combined with the further actions that we will be taking in '14 we expect you will see some degree of improvement with the expense ratio during the '14 year.
Additionally the expense ratio will benefit from continued growth in the earned premium.
This gives us a combined ratio of a 95.1% or improvement of 3 points when compared with the fourth quarter of '12.
Gene is going to be giving you a bit more color on the numbers as he has in the past but I would make a couple of other comments briefly.
Much of the improvement was due to our domestic or U.S.
insurance operations in particular.
Some of the loss activity that we had in the reinsurance segment stems from property losses coming out of the property portfolio we have in Asia.
Again that's in the reinsurance segment.
And on the insurance front we had some property losses and surety losses again.
Again this will be in the international insurance segment and this was specifically in Europe.
We have our arms around these issues and have already taken the required actions to address them.
The balance sheet remains strong.
The fourth quarter of '13 marks the 28th quarter in a row of positive reserve development.
As we discussed in the past our philosophy is to set our initial loss fix [ph] cautiously with the idea as more information becomes available and those reserve season were able to tighten our fix [ph].
Beyond that as far as the balance sheet goes our Chairman certainly will be discussing the investment portfolio amongst other things.
But I would tuck in a comment that we continue to strategically manage the investment portfolio trying to strike an appropriate balance between yield duration and expected movement in interest rates.
We remain quite optimistic about the opportunities before our organization.
As I suggested earlier we think one of the bright points in the marketplace is the U.S.
casualty market.
And given how weighted we are towards U.S.
casualty as a group overall we believe that this will hold us in very good stead both today and for the foreseeable future.
Thank you.
Okay Gene you want to pick up and go through some of the numbers please? Okay.
Thanks Bill.
Well as Rob said we finished the year with another solid quarter with strong premium growth continued improvement in our combined ratio on both an accident year and a calendar year basis and a significant increase in our operating income compared with the fourth quarter of 2012.
Overall our net premiums written were up 11% to almost $1.4 billion and the combined ratio decreased 3 points to 95.1% in the fourth quarter.
Catastrophe losses were $13 million in the quarter that's down significantly from last year's fourth quarter cat losses of $41 million which were almost all related to Sandy.
Favorable reserve development in the quarter was $12 million or 1.2 loss ratio points and that compares with $20 million or 1.6 loss ratio points a year ago.
The accident year loss ratio before considering catastrophe losses was approximately 95% in the fourth quarter.
For the full year our accident year loss ratio improved 2.5 points from 98% in 2012 to 95.5% in 2013.
In addition as Rob mentioned our paid loss ratio excluding the impact of a specific reinsurance commutation continued to be very strong at 52% in the fourth quarter and 54% for the full year.
Looking at the individual segments.
For our domestic segment net premiums grew 14% to just under $1 billion.
The growth was led by our workers' compensation and other liability lines which grew 19% and 14% respectively.
The domestic segment combined ratio fell 3 points to 92.8% in the quarter with strong underwriting results from excess and surplus lines our regional business and our monoline workers' compensation company.
Domestic cat losses were minimal in the quarter at just over $1 million.
And for the full year the domestic segment's accident year loss ratio before cat declined 2 points to 95%.
Our growth was more modest in the other 2 segments reinsurance and international whereas Rob mentioned the market conditions are lagging the primary insurance market in the U.S.
For the international segment our net premiums were up 1% to $184 million as growth in our Lloyd's business was partially offset by a decline in our direct European business and by the impact of foreign exchange rates.
The reported combined ratio decreased 1 point to 102.4% due primarily to lower catastrophe losses.
And for the full year the international segment's accident year combined ratio declined 2 points to 96%.
The fourth quarter accident year combined ratio was slightly higher at 100% due to an increase in losses from short-tail lines as well as a higher expense ratio.
For the reinsurance segment net premiums increased 4% to $188 million and the combined ratio decreased 5 points to 100.2% primarily due to lower cat activity.
For the full year the reinsurance segment's accident year combined ratio also declined by 4 points to 99%.
Our overall expense ratio for the company was 33.7% in the quarter up 2/10 from a year ago.
The domestic segment expense ratio declined 2/10 to 32.3%.
And although the international and reinsurance expense ratios increased slightly in the fourth quarter due to -- in part to the modest -- our growth in our premium the longer-term trends for those segments are still much better.
Since 2010 the insurance -- the international segment is down 4.5 points to 39% in full year '13 and the reinsurance expense ratio is also down 4 points to 34.8% in full year 2013 and we expect those trends to continue.
Our investment income was $139 million in the quarter.
That's 8% below last year's fourth quarter but it's also an 11% increase over the preceding quarter of this year due to increased earnings from investment funds.
For the full year of '13 our overall investment yield was 3.7% compared with 4.0% in 2012.
We also reported realized gains of $25 million in the fourth quarter and $121 million for all of '13.
Our effective tax rate declined in the quarter to 25.5%.
That's due to the impact of both tax exempt investments as well as higher foreign tax credits in the quarter.
You'll notice we reported a reduction in income of $5 million for non-controlling interest.
We control and consolidate an investment company that has minority shareholders.
That company reported a realized investment gain in the quarter and approximately $4 million of that gain was attributable to the minority shareholders.
So the way we show that is we show the gross gain in our realized gains and we show the minority shareholders' portion of that gain as a non-controlling interest.
So in total that gives us net income of $130 million for the quarter or $0.93 per share and an annualized return on equity of 12.1%.
One other comment.
If you take a look at Page 8 of the release you'll see that the breakdown of our investment portfolio is presented there and that's mostly unchanged from September 30.
I did want to point out that we made a change in the presentation in this -- of this information.
And previously in previous releases we had separately reported foreign corporate bonds.
And we recently decided that it made more sense not to separate the foreign corporate bonds from the U.S.
corporates.
The main reason we made this change is that many of these what we were calling foreign corporate bonds are actually backed by multinational companies and we felt the designation of foreign and non-foreign was somewhat subjective and not meaningful.
At year end the average portfolio duration was 3.3 years the average credit rating was unchanged at AA- and the aggregate unrealized investment gains for the portfolio were $257 million.
Our operating cash flow excluding the impact of the computation I mentioned was up.
It was $255 million in the quarter and $881 million for the full year.
And finally we repurchased 3 million shares of our own common stock in the fourth quarter and almost 4 million shares or 3% of our beginning outstanding shares in full year 2013.
Thank you Gene.
So we were pleased with the results.
Briefly our investment portfolio changed only slightly.
We effectively changed part of our common stock investment strategy to a hedged portfolio where we hedged with options and had less exposure.
It reduced our net exposure to the market.
It's proved to be a good decision.
At the same time we slightly increased our municipal exposure and we slightly increased effectively our cash.
Our general view is the biggest question we face as an enterprise is the tension between the risks of inflation and the threat of deflation.
It's costing us a lot of money to maintain the liquidity we have and to keep the duration of our portfolio at 3.3 years which is sort of 10% below the duration of our liability.
Our liability duration is 3.6 years roughly and we're at 3.3.
It's sort of leaning not being too definitive towards the fear of inflation.
Inflation is how we set our reserves assuming a certain level of inflation.
The redundancies come out because in fact that inflation that we feel is just around the corner has not materialized.
And as long as that continues we'll continue to have significant redundancies coming out or being built up in our reserves.
That cushion is really nice.
It happened for an extended period of time and it protects us from the uncertainty of inflation.
We're doing the same thing in our investment portfolio.
We're keeping that shorter duration.
And in fact as a cornerstone issue of minimizing our exposure to that unforeseen loss we look at the $4 trillion balance sheet of the Federal Reserve and we're worried.
There's no sign we're not being foolish we're not selling all our long-term bonds we're still investing in that -- maintaining that 3.3-year duration.
We're still establishing reserves with an expected level of inflation that's reasonable and not crazy but it is the guidepost that says you need to worry.
It's out there and it could happen and it'll happen when you can least afford it.
Some of our competitors are taking a different stance.
In the short run it is costing us.
We think in the long run we'll be rewarded.
I think generally speaking we're pretty pleased with our results.
We haven't gotten our expenses where they need to go.
It's at the top of our priority list along with what's always been our first item which is underwriting profitability price increases which especially on the domestic front we had an excellent year.
And we expect that same discipline is going to be applied throughout the world and most places it is.
So with that I would -- Kate I'm happy to turn this over for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Amit Kumar with Macquarie.
Just going back to your opening remarks.
Can you just talk a bit more about that shift in the direction regarding balancing rates versus growth? If pricing is at 5% to 6% and loss costs are running at 4% or so how should we think about the shift and its impact on margins going forward? First I don't think we said loss costs are running at 4%.
Somebody else may have but that isn't what we said so I'll -- Rob you can...
Yes I think you're referring to a comment I made.
And really the point that we were trying to articulate is that it's a balance that all of our operating units are constantly trying to strike between rates versus adding to exposure or in many cases policy count.
And for us we have a growing number of our operations that on a policy-year basis are meeting or exceeding our targeted returns.
So again we find ourselves when we get into that position saying "Do we want to push rate harder and possibly write less business? Or do we want to temper how we are pushing for rate and get what we think the market will bear but also grow count to a certain extent?" I think one of the pieces to your earlier point that one needs to keep in mind as it relates to the 5.7% which incidentally for our domestic insurance was north of 6% is that we remain very comfortable that we are outpacing trends by a notable margin to the extent that our -- quite frankly our margins continue to improve.
And then are loss costs running at 3% or so? It really depends on the line of business to be perfectly honest.
I think that our view has been that 3-ish is -- has been the pick that we've been using for some time now.
I think quite frankly there are some out there that in the past have been more optimistic than us.
And now as a result or perhaps timing to catch up a bit or maybe choosing to pick a higher number.
But we feel based on everything that we know about our book and what we see going on around us that 3% will continue to be an adequate number.
And quite frankly again as a reserve development has played out referenced earlier in the discussion it's proven to be more than adequate.
That's helpful.
I...
Let me just add that that 3% number which we sort of have used in our reserving in fact is the number that has proved to be in reality a little more conservative than what reality has been.
So I think that at least that's where it's been to date.
Got it.
And then I guess in conjunction to that in terms of the buyback was that a function of growth opportunities in Q4 or was it a function of the stock price? Maybe just talk about the relative attractiveness.
Because if I recall your comments I don't think a lot of us on the Street had that level of buybacks in our model.
Well the goal is always to keep everyone uncertain.
And I think that part of it is you buy back stock when the stock is available when people come to you and offer you pieces of stock when you can do things and you think the stock is attractive relative to where you think the intrinsic value of the enterprise is what you think the growth opportunities are and what the returns are.
So just as in the third quarter we had a substantial capital gain which generated unforeseen excess capital which gave us the capacity to buy back a lot of stock outside of our modeled capital needs.
So we plan on our capital use.
And any time we generate substantial capital above our capital plan we step back and say "Okay are we going to be able to grow faster this year or do we want to buy the stock back? What availability do we have for buying back stock and what price?" So it's a constant measure of where do we go what do we do.
And honestly we felt the stock's value was good from the point of view of our shareholders versus the alternatives of how do we create value and maximize the returns for our shareholders.
Tomorrow we might decide it'd be better to pay a special dividend or find a company to acquire.
I can't tell you.
It's -- we make decisions we talk to the board as to what the right opportunity is at the time.
But the issue is we were generating and in this case mainly because we had an especially large gain based upon what's opportune at the moment.
That's helpful.
And then just finally on the expense ratio comment then you mentioning that it's one of your top priorities for 2014.
We've talked about it for some quarters and we have seen some improvement.
When we look forward are we talking about a few points of improvement or is it going to be sort of a slow trend line improvement? And then what would be the biggest driver at this juncture? This is -- I'm sorry this is Rob.
The answer is that we -- in all likelihood you will see a gradual improvement over '14 and certainly into '15 as I suggested.
Part of the improvement will come from higher earned premium.
And quite frankly some of the smaller businesses in their infancy their earned premium getting to a more substantial level or catching up with their written as they grow a bit.
I think the other thing that we're constantly looking at is whether we as an organization are as lean and mean as we need to.
Are the things that we're doing -- are we fully embracing efficiency where we can? At the same time that should not be misinterpreted.
We are not going to depart from our decentralized structure.
So I think a lot of the benefit will come from higher earned premium at the same time as we have in the past.
And we will continue to be vigilant about how we spend dollars and pennies as well.
I think the other comment that I would make is it's a slippery slope to line up all P&amp;C insurance companies and start comparing their expense ratios.
I think one needs to take into account the mix of business and the nature of a higher expense model that often goes along with some of the specialty line.
Now one needs to be able to compensate for that and then some with the loss ratio and ultimately delivering an attractive combined which we were acutely aware of.
But I think that one needs to understand that there are parts of our Specialty business quite frankly that are running its combined in the 80s and they have an expense ratio that starts with a 4.
And ultimately our view is that that make sense because we're delivering a good return.
So again as was suggested earlier we are acutely aware of the expense ratio and we would like to see that improve by certainly a couple of points over some period of time.
At the same time I would caution people and not leaping to any conclusion based on comparing our expense ratio to others that have a very different mix of business.
Our next question comes from line of Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Say one question Rob.
I guess somebody asked the expense question.
But I think it was either you or Gene that mentioned the underlying or accident year combined annually in the segments.
And we're trying to figure out what that implied about the international segment in the fourth quarter.
Is there -- can we get a little color on that? Gene's comment and let's see -- well Gene are you able to connect those dots? Well I say was -- the fourth quarter combined ratio was around 100%.
So that's a point below where it was a year ago.
It's been slightly elevated just because of the expense ratio.
But it's improving.
Nine for the full year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then -- so the growth -- how much of the growth coming off in the fourth quarter was just due to FX? Actually the FX for the international segment on a gross basis was down 1 percentage point.
And on a local currency basis it would have been up 3 or 4 percentage points.
But on a consolidated basis it was down.
It was nothing of consequence.
Research Division</strong> I understand I understand.
I was just trying to -- so you had some growth there during the last few quarters and that seems to have pulled back in the fourth quarter.
Was it something specific or was it just kind of you reached scale in the businesses you were trying to grow? Or just trying to understand kind of what might have changed in the fourth quarter? Yes I think it's a combination of both Michael.
There are certainly some parts of our international insurance where they reached a critical mass and you're not going to see the same level of growth that is seen in the past unless you see an improving market that they operate in.
And quite frankly as we suggested earlier there are many markets outside of the United States that remains remarkably competitive and I would suggest to a certain extent in some situations irrational.
So again it's a combination of reaching some degree of critical mass in some places and other places where we've just concluded that we don't like the opportunity and we are willing to shrink the business.
No different than what we have done in the past domestically when we don't like the opportunity or we're in it to make an underwriting profit.
And if we don't think we can do that we'll just not do it or certainly do less of it.
I think withdrawing in particular pieces of the business on an international basis appears to be more significant because it's a much smaller business so we withdraw from one particular thing or another.
And in a quarter it particularly may seem more consequential that it would elsewhere.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And was that pullback related or was that in any of the lines or areas where you were growing? Or was -- so did you grow in something and then decide you maybe didn't like it as much and then you cut it off? Or was it something where you had a presence for some time and for whatever reason it just no longer met your hurdles? It's probably a combination of both to a certain extent.
But it's more driven by places that we have been for an extended period of time.
And we remain astonished by the level of competition.
And to our colleagues’ credit they know where the line needs to be in the sand and they stay on the right side of that.
So I would use as an example for you U.K.
professional liability.
Our book of U.K.
professional liability is 1/3 the size it was at its peak or maybe even a little bit less.
And we just don't get it.
I mean we have lots of theories why some of these folks continue to chase it down the drain.
But that would be an example Michael of something that is moving the needle from a top line perspective where we have the people we have the expertise we're focused on doing the right things and we're taking a long-term view.
That market will come back.
We are convinced at some point and we will be there when others will have to permanently retreat.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's really helpful.
And then just last one.
Not an underwriting question but the income -- the net income from your wholly-owned subs was higher this quarter and is actually higher in '13.
It's actually pretty positive in '13 versus really effectively flat in '12.
How should we think about that? I mean I don't have a lot of insight into the hanger leasing business or I think that's what part of it is.
But if you could give us some color on that that would be great.
It's an aviation service maintenance business as well.
We service parts in international military and airports around the world.
It's a business where we made an acquisition last year that helps us expand the business.
The business is growing.
It's just more profitable.
The fourth quarter was especially profitable.
I think the fourth quarter run rate was probably better than we'll have for the balance of the year but the rest of the year will be -- 2014 rather will be a good year but not as good as if you annualize the fourth quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I don't want to talk about a specific case but of course you'll know where I'm getting.
When you guys have a large judgment that affects you what is the policy about case reserving for significant losses? The policy is we always examine cases and reserve as we think appropriate.
Research Division</strong> And is there a pooling of general reserves for such losses? Or if you had one specific outside loss would that be a risk that you'd actually take a case reserve at a later time? We always reserve as we think appropriate Josh.
Our next question comes from the line of Gregory Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You guys have -- I think it's been 20-something -- 28 quarters or so in a row of reserve releases.
But this past quarter if my math is right it was the lowest of the entire track record.
And just in terms of absolute dollars...
I don't think actually it was lowest but it was amongst the lowest.
Yes we -- fourth quarter last year was $20 million the second quarter this year was $18 million this is $17 million so we've been bouncing around...
It's bouncing around.
It's -- I wouldn't say it's the lowest but it's -- the answer is...
Research Division</strong> $16 million is lower than -- okay go ahead.
I think we've had several that have been -- you also have to understand that these are netted numbers so there's a lot of stuff moving around.
But I would say there's been 3 quarters that have been all around the same thing.
Now what's the question? Research Division</strong> Right.
Actually it was the stuff you mentioned.
Can you talk a bit about the accident year movements underneath the -- or any kind of segment detail? Can you help us think about the moving parts? I don't think we can give you moving parts except to say that as we said with a paid loss ratio of 52% which is again towards the very low end of the paid loss ratio.
And paid loss ratio continues going down.
It still has a greater spread over our reported loss ratio -- would indicate that the likelihood of continued redundancies is good assuming we don't have an acceleration of inflation which I think answers your question at least in a general way.
It doesn't give you the specifics you'd like.
Research Division</strong> Yes I mean we'll see the Schedule P when it comes out.
But you can't help us with any kind of like which years moved around or anything whether...
You'll see -- one of the problems is you're going to see a new Schedule P.
It's going to be a consolidated Schedule P because we've moved everything under Berkley Insurance.
So for the first time we won't have to have 100 people explaining it.
So the Schedule P will be much more self-explanatory.
So I don't want to get ahead of myself but everyone will be able to examine Schedule P with much more precision and a much clearer understanding.
So I don't want to get ahead of myself.
I want to let everybody look at it.
And if you have questions then I think you'll see them.
And I think it will verify what we have been saying for a while that our reserves will prove to be more comfortable than some people have implied.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay that -- yes I look forward to that.
But the one thing is I understand the paid loss ratio -- I mean that -- and it's good that it's not dollars out the door.
My concern is is there a trend somewhere in the accident years that's causing you to put up more case and obviously that -- just causing you to put up more whether it's the large loss that Josh Shanker just mentioned or the large potential loss that Josh mentioned or others that is -- is there a tick up somewhere that's causing you to put up more non-paid loss estimates that is driving overall reserve releases to be at the lowest level in many years? Yes I'm sorry.
Greg it's Rob.
I think if you go back over some period of time I think you will find that over many quarters the paid loss ratio has continued to be very attractive.
I think what you will see also is that we've consistently had positive developments.
And a lot of that stems from where we had our initial loss pick proving to be perhaps a bit cautious relative to where reality is.
I don't think that you should -- I think in my opinion at least it would be a mistake to read into that a little bit -- it would be a mistake to read into the situation more than that.
I think as far as the reserve development we go through a reasonably extensive reserve analysis by operating unit by product line every 90 days.
And what you see is very much a byproduct if you will of that exercise.
And we're constantly reviewing and rereviewing that.
Ultimately we feel as though that that process allows us to make sure that we end up in a good spot.
And there will be fluctuations from time to time just like if you look at '13 it moved back and forth and a lot of that has to do with because we're looking at it every quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Vinay Misquith with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> The first question is on growth in the domestic insurance operation.
Just looking at gross written premiums of 13% this quarter sequential uptick from the last quarter could you help us understand why that happened? And are you turning on the spigot in certain lines that you had closed earlier? I think the answer is we are opening the spigot selectively where we think the policy or returns will hit or exceed our target.
And consequently we are willing to be a little bit less aggressive in some cases with rate and more interested in growing policy count.
Research Division</strong> How do you see that moving forward in '14? I mean I understand that you're more comfortable with the trends now but we ought to see some competitors also reduce the pace of rate increases.
Do you think that you can actually gain market share despite the market being more competitive? Well again I'm not intimately familiar with what some of the other companies say and certainly I'm not intimately familiar with what they truly think.
But from our perspective we see -- we are seeing on a policy-year basis a growing percentage of our operating units or the business that we write being able to achieve our targeted returns or better.
And to the extent that that's the case we will continue to pursue that business.
There is certainly nothing that leads us to believe that '14 is going to be a year where we are not -- the environment will not provide an opportunity to grow the business in all likelihood.
And we remain somewhat optimistic.
I think the other thing that one needs to keep in mind is that we had several years at this stage of rate increase which then of course you get a compounding effect.
So at this stage we have many parts of the organization that have been getting rate on rate for multiple quarters and it shouldn't be a surprise that we're getting to the point where some of the operations have very much a green light to try and increase their exposure.
And some of us aren't somewhat optimistic.
Some of us are very optimistic.
But those who are very optimistic are always somewhat optimistic.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
Then the second question is on the expense ratio.
You mentioned that you're taking certain actions.
Curious further depths just in back-office stuff or are you looking sort of more of the underwriting stuff? Yes I don't -- I think that you're leaping to a conclusion that it's a staff issue.
And I think that that would be a mistake from my perspective.
We're just constantly looking at the organization to try and find ways that we can become more efficient.
We're looking at places where we can work more efficiently with our partners ways that we can work more efficiently with distribution and customers.
And we're looking at systems and things of that nature as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And so the question for Gene.
Gene what do you think is the normalized tax rate? Is it around the 27% mark? Obviously it depends a lot.
Gains can influence that if we have more realized gains in the quarter.
Those are all the taxed at 35%.
So that could cause some variability in the number.
But 27% 28% right now is about the right place to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And the last question on the net investment income.
So you guys are pulling back or still keeping your duration low.
Should we see some sort of continued drag on the net investment income in the future? I don't really think it's going to change much.
I think duration is going to stay around 3.3 years.
I don't think there'll be a drag because we are generating lots of cash so the duration will stay roughly the same.
So no I would not think -- I wouldn't think that will happen.
But we will -- I don't think we'll get a benefit from a steepening yield curve.
Some people are out investing and pushing that duration to 5 years.
You see a 5-year duration that's a really substantial benefit they're getting from that steeper yield curve.
On the other hand it's a lot more risk to take if inflation comes back.
So I think that's the biggest change.
But no I don't think it'll have an adverse effect.
And look at some point in time you make a decision that you think the risk of inflation are less.
I don't think that's the case.
Ultimately right now we don't have inflation because other investors from outside the U.S.
are funding our deficits and are funding the borrowing of the Federal Reserve.
So as long as that happens we're not going to have inflation.
Our next question comes from the line of Heather Takahashi with Three Bridges Capital.
I have some questions specifically related to the workers' comp line.
I was wondering if you could talk more specifically about what trends you've seen from recent accident years in workers' comp.
How the development's going? And then also what you're seeing in terms of pricing versus loss cost trends for recent years now? I mean we all know that pricing has been up quite a bit in workers' comp but how are the loss costs trending more recently? And if you could also talk a bit about California? We really don't talk about particular lines of business.
If you have questions about that you can -- you could talk offline to Gene Ballard and Karen Horvath.
But we don't talk about specific lines of business.
We certainly wouldn't talk about a particular state and lines of business.
It's competitive information.
And it's not something we generally share.
Okay.
Maybe I could ask another question then.
Perhaps the answer will be similar.
What do you think now in terms of your excess capital position? I mean you talked earlier on the call about all the things you can do with excess capital but what are you now thinking in terms of how much you have in excess capital? Well it depends obviously on our capacity to grow.
So that's an issue that changes every quarter based on our earnings and our ability to grow.
I think we have modest levels of excess capital.
We'll continue to evaluate as we do each quarter either special dividends buying our own stock back and the alternative of profitability of growth.
And I think that's a continuously evaluated situation.
And I think as we made it in the fourth quarter to buy back stock more aggressively it's a decision we make on a continuous basis.
We have guidelines from our board as to what we can do.
And it's -- we basically make that as a continuous thing based on opportunities we see at any moment in time.
Our next question comes from Bob Farnam with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Just one touching -- going back to the reserves.
Just you talked about the inflation impact on reserves.
What kind of inflation assumptions are you making when you're setting reserves at this point? It would be 3% to 3-plus depending on the line of business.
And in fact inflation is really proved to be between 1% and 2%.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in your press release you mentioned your kind of new competitors -- more rational competitors it seems like.
Are those competitors basically companies that used to write large-ticket E&amp;S that are looking to move into smaller E&amp;S because of the [indiscernible] moving into the market? We're among friends.
The answer is people like Berkshire and other people who are trying to expand their footprint who are rational people and want to write business and other people who are in fact leaving the business.
Now there are also other people who are not so rational whose names I won't mention.
But the point I was trying to make is everyone is making much to do about Berkshire and there probably are some others who are entering the business but those are rational long-term people who want to make money.
Long-term rational people who want to get in the business aren't of great concerns to us.
Ajit is a good friend of mine and he's as greedy as anybody and he wants to make money.
That's not a problem.
And anybody who worries about that is making a mistake.
The people you need to worry about are the dummies who don't know about making money and who do dumb things.
And those are the people you worry about.
And a lot of those people are going out of business.
And those people we're happy to see go.
And there are a few other dummies who are in the business and we'd like to see them go too but they're not all gone yet.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just give them some more time huh? Absolutely.
Our next question comes from the line of Ian Gutterman with Balyasny Asset Management.
First Gene can you clarify I might have misheard.
I thought at one point you said there was $12 million of reserve releases and I thought you also said 1.2% was your -- be more like $17 million.
So I just wanted to clarify which is what.
Definitely it was $17 million he said.
$17 million.
On the paid loss ratio I guess one thing I was looking at is obviously you've shown good growth.
It looks like the last 3 years have been double-digit top line and paids this year are going to be up call it low-single digit.
And obviously part of that is good work on your part and part of that is just paid's lagged growth right? So does that imply that we're sort of marketing the bottom on paid loss ratio in just a natural -- the way losses pay out over time should suggest that that pace will start to grow faster to reflect the growth of the past few years? Paid always in fact has a lag with risk okay? And yes absolutely your statement is a correct statement and the trend is correct.
So paid -- let's just say that you have to balance that paid with what the earned premium was and the written and you have a format that does that.
And even after taking that into consideration paid losses are down significantly.
But for example last year I think the paid-loss ratio was like 57% or 58%.
And again it's trending down.
If it had trended as our growth was it would've been 53% or 54% depending -- because you've got to look at it as a percentage of premium volume of net premium.
So it's -- they're trending down slightly faster than premiums are trending up.
So it's getting better and continues to get slightly better.
That's the long and the short of it.
So if you said 52% what 52% means is it's probably a point or 2 better than last year.
And last year probably was a point or 2 better than the year before and so on.
Okay.
But at some point I assume we're getting close to that inflection where it starts to go the other way even if you're doing a good job on managing the product [ph].
I would envision that you will be at the inflation point about 6 to 12 months after prices stop going up.
That's very helpful actually.
That will be a fair guess.
Probably take you about a year after price increases stop going up because a year after is when earned premium stop having those price increases.
So I'm giving you what would be the rule of thumb in my mind not a mathematical calculation.
But if I looked at it I would say paid losses a year after price increases stop should bottom out.
That makes sense.
And then my last topic on reinsurance.
First can you remind me just a general mix of say casualty versus property and maybe professional in that business? More than 2/3 of it is casualty and professional and the balance being shorter-tail long.
Okay and but that's kind of what I was guessing.
So as we go forward given the comments I think it was Rob made on pressure in cat spreading into casualty should we maybe expect some at least expense ratio pressure there from higher seating [ph] commissions and possibly even loss ratio as well? I think it's certainly possible.
But I think that perhaps the thing to look at a little bit more closely will be the top line which obviously we expect there's a possibility because that could shrink depending on market conditions.
And yes of course over time as that reality earns through that we'll expect the expense ratio to an extent as well.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is a follow-up question from the line of Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Yes just one more question.
You guys were kind enough to give us new disclosure on the last couple of quarters on development by segment.
Is that not going to happen going forward? Or do you have it in front of you? Yes we will have that laid out in the 10-K.
But with $17 million in total and it's predominantly the domestic segment and also the international segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess so those were both favorable and negligible on the reinsurance? Yes.
Well there's some in all 3.
So I mean it's not a -- that big a number to begin with but we'll have it in the K.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I got somehow kicked off the call before so if this has been asked I apologize.
But on the investment income and the fixed income side that's bounced around the last couple of quarters.
There's -- fourth quarter was a little bit above where it was in the third quarter.
Is that just cash flow and normal variability in earnings? Yes there's nothing -- been no change fundamental change in the investment fixed income portfolio.
Research Division</strong> So it's a pretty good run rate fourth quarter for that...
And I would not think that would -- I think part of it may well be Jay that we have chosen opportunistically when to invest our cash but -- so we may have invested a couple of hundred -- $200 million $300 million at the end of the third quarter that we invest in fact earned some money at -- in the fourth quarter.
But in principle there's no real change.
So the yield on the fixed income is -- for the full year is about 3.6 and 3.5 in the fourth quarter so it's not like -- it's pretty close.
Research Division</strong> And if you looked at for the fixed income what the new money yields are if you were to duplicate what you're doing today what's the spread at this point? I don't think that we believe our investment income would go down.
Probably it would go down about 12 basis points over the year.
But we think we more than make it up in the aggregate because of cash flow.
And I'm not showing any further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Okay.
Well one of the frustrations are we spend a lot of time on these calls talking about a lot of detail and what we really are trying to do is express the general view about how we feel about the business and where it is.
And that sometimes is hard to do because we get immersed in a lot of detailed questions that help people make models work and figure out the little of issues.
I think I'd like to try and spend just a couple of seconds on big picture items.
Number one our domestic business is strong.
We're very pleased with how it's going.
We expect we'll continue to grow at comfortably between 12% and 15%.
We would expect our price increases will stay above the 5% area for the year but it will be spotty.
And we're expecting no dramatic increase in inflation certainly in the first 6 months of the year.
It is hard to tell primarily that's a result of nondomestic investors wanting to put their money in the U.S.
which is allowing us to have deficits without creating deficit-funded inflation.
We believe that will continue for a while and therefore inflation is not likely to change.
We think we'll be able to improve our expense ratio modestly with more efficiencies on our part.
We believe that we understand a couple of issues that arose in our International business that we've taken care of and addressed.
So we're quite optimistic.
Our greatest threat we feel is in fact our investment area.
The threat of inflation the fear of deflation our sitting there and we're searching for ways to protect ourselves.
Overall we would expect our returns will increase modestly next year and we're expecting a really good year.
So thank you all very much.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Everyone have a good day.
Good day and welcome to the W.R.
Berkley Corporation's first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Today's call is being recorded.
The speakers' remarks may contain forward-looking statements.
Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words including without limitation believes expects or estimates.
We caution you that such forward-looking statements should not be regarded as a representation by us that the future plans estimates or expectations are contemplated by us will in fact be achieved.
Please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and our other filings made with the SEC for a description of the business environment in which we operate and the important factors that may materially affect our results.
W.R.
Berkley Corporation is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any such obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
W.
R.
Berkley.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
We were very pleased with our results and I'll talk more about it.
I think that as we move through the next period of time I think we'll be able to demonstrate many of the things that we think differentiate our company from many of our competitors.
So we'll start with Rob talking about our operations.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Trends in the commercialized property and casualty insurance market and reinsurance market remain reasonably consistent with what we've seen over the past few quarters.
The two markets while they are intertwined with one and another continue to march to the beat of a very different drum.
The domestic insurance market while modestly more competitive than in the recent past still offers opportunities to raise rates beyond loss cost trends and consequently providing us the opportunity to expand margins.
In particular casualty and workers compensation remain amongst the most attractive.
Having said that this can vary by territory or class.
Professional liability overall is flat.
Having said that again it can vary by class.
Non-cat exposed property is also generally speaking threading water while cat-exposed property continues to be under mounting pressure.
Commercial transportation continues to be the very puzzle to us.
We talked about this a few quarters ago how it is right for change and has been right for change for some period of time.
When you look at the triangles for this line of business it's hard to imagine that things have not changed more or hardened.
Having said that when we look at this line it appears to have some commonality with what we saw in workers compensation a few years ago.
The insurance market outside of the U.S.
continues to be reasonably competitive and generally speaking has not benefited from the type of rate increases that we've seen in the domestic market.
Having said that there are some early signs in some territories that their market is planning for change.
On the other hand the reinsurance market remains painfully competitive.
The combination of an ongoing change and the approach that seating companies are taking combined with the increasing participation from non-traditional capacity coming into the space is putting a tremendous amount of pressure on the market.
Traditional market participants are grappling with this new reality and trying to figure out what their model will be going forward.
While this intense competition to date has been more focused on the U.S.
reinsurance market and the western European reinsurance market as well as global accounts it would seem as though this new phenomenon within the reinsurance space is spreading to other regions.
With regards to the company net written premium for the quarter was $1.53 billion an increase of approximately 11% when compared with the corresponding period last year.
Of the 11 points of growth 4.6 were associated with rate increase with the balance coming from exposure.
Our domestic insurance segment had a particularly strong quarter growing at 14% while achieving a rate increase of slightly more than 5%.
Our renewal retention ratio for the group remains at approximately 80% giving us comfort that the quality and the integrity of the book remain intact.
The company's loss ratio for the quarter was 60.3% which includes 1.8 points of positive development and 1 point of cat losses associated with main storm.
As Gene has defined for you in the past we define cat losses based on PCS or main storm.
Having said that if you adjust that to include unusual losses associated with weather or not typical one could more than double that number.
So by example in the month of January in one day we had this at one of our operations we had the same number of slip and falls that we would typically have in one month.
Our international insurance operation overall showed some level of improvement from the fourth quarter.
However it continues to be unacceptable.
Quite frankly the performance of most of the segment was reasonably good.
The issue lies with our non-Lloyd's European insurance operations.
As I mentioned last quarter we believed that we have identified the issue and have taken the action and are in the process of fully addressing what has been root of the challenge or the problem.
The paid loss ratio for the group was a 50.7% which we believe is a very positive indicator for what the future may hold.
The expense ratio for the period was 33.6% which is an improvement of more than 1.5 point when compared with the same period in '13.
The expense ratio continues to be a priority for us as an organization and we expect this improvement trend to continue although it may not be a smooth curve.
When we put all the pieces together that company achieved a combined of a 93.9% and on the accident year basis a 94.7%.
Obviously those numbers would improve on an accident year basis depending on how you handle the cat number.
Our balance sheet in general remains in very good shape and I'll leave the discussion around that to others.
However I would make the comment that the first quarter of '14 represents the 29 quarter in a row of net positive reserve development and more specifically in the quarter we had net positive development of approximately $45 million.
When we look at our policy in numbers in combination with the fact that we are still able to get a rate above loss cost trend we are very encouraged.
We continue to focus on making sure that we optimize the balance between pushing for rate versus adding to exposure count.
Thank you Rob.
Eugene you want to take us through the numbers.
Thank you.
Well as Rob said we had another solid quarter with strong premium growth continued improvement in our overall combined ratios both on an accident year and a calendar year basis and significant increase in our operating income and net income compared with last year.
Overall our net premiums were up 10.8% to over $1.5 billion.
For the domestic segment premiums were up 14% primarily as a result of growth in our two largest lines other liability which increased 15% and workers compensation which was up 16%.
For the international segment the premiums increased 18% in terms of original currency and 10% when converted to U.S.
dollars and our reinsurance premium decreased by 6% as a decline in our Asia-Pacific reinsurance more than offset growth in our U.S.
and U.K.
reinsurance companies.
Our underwriting profits increased 28% to $83 million.
The accident year loss ratio before cat losses improved by eight-tenth-of-a-point to 61.1 due primarily to higher prices.
In addition our overall expense ratio improved by seventh-tenth-of-a-point due to premium growth as well as the benefit of various initiatives underway to reduce administrative cost.
That gives us an accident year combined ratio of 94.7% down 1.5 points from a year ago.
The pre-tax accident year combined ratio for our domestic segment which represents 74% of our Q1 premiums was 93.7% and for the international and reinsurance segment it was 97.2% and 97.1% respectively.
Cat losses were $14 million compared with $5 million a year ago.
Most of the 2014 cat losses were actually from two winter storms in the first week at January.
And as Rob said we also experienced more than usual losses in the first quarter from freezes and other unnamed weather events that are not included in the cat loss number.
Prior-year reserve releases were $25 million this year compared to $23.5 million a year ago.
Favorable reserve development of slightly more than $25 million for the domestic segment was partially offset by very modest increases in prior-year reserves for the international and reinsurance segments.
Again Rob mentioned the paid loss ratio at 50.7% is actually the lowest it's been since the first quarter of 2008.
Our investment income was up 24% to $169 million due to significant increase in income from investment funds specifically funds that are invested in real estate energy aviation and rail car businesses.
And the annualized yield on our overall portfolio was 4.5% of eight-tenth-of-a-point from a year ago.
Realized gains were $53 million up $20 million from a year ago primarily from the sale of commercial real estate and unrealized gains increased over $100 million to $510 million at March 31.
At quarter end our average portfolio duration was 3.4 years and our average credit rating was unchanged at AA-.
You'll see our effective income tax rate increased to 30.5% in the first quarter from 26% a year ago.
That's due entirely to significantly higher income from investment funds and investment gains which are generally taxed at the full 35% tax rate.
We repurchased 4.8 million shares of our common stock in the quarter for $193 million.
And I look back since 2006 we've now -- actually since the beginning of 2007 we've now repurchased over 76 million shares of our stock or about 40% of the outstanding stock at the beginning of that period.
And over the same time our shareholders' equity has grown by 30%.
So for the quarter overall that gives us 45% increase in net income to $170 million a 51% increase in net income per share to $1.25 at an annualized return on equity of 15.7%.
Thank you Gene.
We're very enthusiastic although many of you might say I'm always enthusiastic which would be absolutely correct but who would want a company run by pessimist.
The fact is we have had over seven years of positive development which I might point out as twice the average duration of our loss reserves.
It would be hard in spite of at least one person pointing out that they think we're short of reserves to continue that process if that was the case but there are people who write fairly tails as well as historical facts.
We're enthusiastic because the paid loss ratio over time has come down which reflects reality.
We did have a period of time back over 10 years ago where we were concerned about our reserves and we changed everything we did about our reserving process and practices.
So now we have a tendency to be more conservative which in fact over the long run is probably an additional problem because we end up being more conservative than we'd like to be.
Overall our insurance operating business is good to very good.
We continue to get rate increases.
When you have 52 operating units you always have a problem some place.
But overall we see continued improvement in our underwriting results and a continued decline in our expense ratio.
So we're very optimistic for our operating results for the year.
As to the investment front for now several years I have been suggesting we would have improved gains.
Improved gains in our portfolio are not a reflection of Gene weren't we lucky something happened.
It was a reflection of our dissatisfaction with fixed income returns and our efforts to find other alternatives.
We do not invest in hedge funds.
We have one modest investment and what would be considered as hedge funds less than $100 million in our $16 billion portfolio.
All the other investment funds are asset-based funds lending or some other type of asset-related income.
We sold a building.
We made a gain.
We sold some other things.
Airplanes which were in a fund and had depreciation thus a large portfolio of airplanes which gave us no income suddenly gave us income as the planes were sold.
It wasn't a sudden change.
Accounting rule said you have to depreciate the airplanes and when you sell them you recapture the depreciation plus you get an equivalent return.
So we continue to do those things and while we believe this quarter in some ways was better than we might have expected it is in line with our expectation.
We continue to believe we can achieve our 15% return.
We're optimistic about all aspects of our operations and we continue to believe our investment portfolio will generate increased gains as we go through this year and next year.
It is going to be a bit more lumpy than portfolio yields from bonds.
On the other hand we think that people who have tried to get yields by extending the maturity are taking risks that we think are hidden today but are real because our view is inflation is out there.
We don't know whether it's around the corner or a mile away but it inevitably is there.
So overall very positive about the year don't see anything on the horizon at the moment that's good hinder us from having an outstanding year.
We continue to be able to grow take market share because of service and focused expertise and people want that.
People are much more conscious of the value we deliver through both claims and underwriting expertise.
So with that Nicole I'm happy to take questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
I think as though and kind of looking out from here where do you see the environment shaking out for the rest of '14 and into '15 in terms of rate versus loss trends in your domestic book? Well let Rob talk and I'll add.
Go ahead Rob.
I think our expectation is that we should be able to continue to certainly keep up with an all likelihood exceed loss trends for the balance of the year.
The only reason of caveat I would throw out there is there are parts of our book and we mentioned this on the fourth quarter call I probably should have been more specific about it today where we feel on a policy or basis we are making high-teens or into the 20% returns.
And as a result of that we aren't going to just keep our foot down on the rate pedal as hard as we possibly can because we will becoming more focused on adding two policy account and increasing share.
So I think that the market conditions are not going to become terribly more competitive through the balance of the year and there are some folks that have theories that would suggest that it will become less competitive between now and the balance of the year depending on certain things that could unfold.
But as far as our numbers I think you will see us to be able to keep up our outpace loss cost and to the extent that you see us really just keeping up or below loss cost because we are so pleased with the policy returns we're able to achieve.
And will you talk about those high-teens ROEs? I mean is that mostly on the comp side or are there other long-tailed areas where you're seeing those sort of returns? I think the answer is that as we suggested earlier we think the casualty space and in general and perhaps parts of the workers compensation market are particularly attractive.
At the same time I would caution one not to use too broad of brush because it can vary by territory it can vary by class.
One other thing that's particularly interesting is people see classes of business that look attractive and then they find ways to enter and then they tend to enter the least attractive places for the business because that's where you can get in.
So it may be a line of professional liability there.
Professional liability looks great.
And where can we get in and they find where they can get in the easiest is exactly that part of the business that's not attractive.
The same is true of particular states for workers compensation and particular areas in the country for other lines of business.
So one of the things and finally to answer your question is the differential between good places and good niches and bad has never been greater.
And I guess maybe Bill you mentioned your sort of 15% ROE goal? Not 50% 15%.
So if we look at the first quarter we normalize investments it looks like you're closer to that sort of 10% range.
How do you get there? I mean is it given the environment you see? I don't think 10% is normalized.
I think you can't take -- what I've said to people is we'll have $25 million-plus of gains.
And our partnerships are going to do better than they had.
So for instance we had a railcar leasing business that had an especially good quarter because of market-to-market the value of the railcars as we got into that business early.
But there are a lot of -- it's not going to go back to the same level we were at in prior quarters.
I think all of that is going to be better and we're going to continue to have gains.
And I would consider the base level of those gains sort of $25 million.
So I would say with no improvement in expenses or underwriting we're probably today at 13.5%.
And I think we will have improvements in underwriting and expenses.
And I think between now and the end of the year we'll have at least one or two more significant realized gains.
So I'm pretty comfortable about that.
And I think the answer to that also is we brought back a lot of stock in the first quarter.
So that helps us a little bit also.
And then just last quick one if I could.
Rob on Europe and you mentioned I guess the non-Lloyd's Europe in terms of operations where you were making some changes or some re-underwriting things or re-underwriting actions.
Can you talk about where you've seen the growth in that international book recently? And what's the overlap with the area that you were talking about? So let me first talk to you a little bit about where we've taken the action and what those areas are.
One is within the U.K.
a part of the professional liability phase a particularly class in that.
Also there was a sub-class in Spain within the professional liability space as it relates to healthcare.
And in that sub-class we have taken action there as well.
And finally related to the surety line in Europe specifically Germany and we have taken action there.
As far as the growth opportunity probably the leading growth opportunity there is coming out of Australia.
So not within that area? No.
The places that we are taking action to eliminate we are reducing or eliminating we are not increasing.
The growth is coming from places like Australia.
We're having some growth in the Scandinavian territory.
Not in some of the professional line within Europe and U.K.
Our next question comes from Amit Kumar of Macquarie.
Just two or three quick questions.
First of all going back to the discussion on capital management there's a big ramp up in buybacks suggest that perhaps you see better value in your stock versus writing more business going forward? No.
What it suggests is we think we'll have a lot of capital gains so we'll generate more capital than our planning anticipated so we have more resources to buyback stock.
We think our stock is attractively priced now.
As we have said a number of times we think that our balance sheet is very conservatively stated both because of our reserving and because we have assets that we carry across because of the nature of the accounting rules that we think we value and therefore we think the stock is attractively priced.
And given that we'll convert some of those to real value.
I think it's attractively priced and as we convert those to real value we'll have more revenue than we anticipated.
So we have the capacity to buyback while keeping in mind the rating agencies want us to maintain our level of capital.
That's somewhat similar to what you have said in Q4.
So I think I get the point.
The second question I have is on the discussion on reinsurance global.
I know that you talked about the non-notable losses.
The loss ratio for reinsurance global was elevated at 64.6% versus 55% in Q1 2013 were there any one-timers in that number too? Gene I believe we have some positive development coming through a year ago.
Is that correct? Yes.
We did.
That was the big difference.
So if you strip the noise or the development out what's a good sort of underlying run rate number to think about? In terms of loss ratio? Yes.
Loss ratio? So we're like in low-60s now.
The final question I have is for Bill.
Recently we have seen I guess return of consolidation discussions in Bermuda.
And I know this does not somewhat directly relate to you but could you sort of refresh us what's your view is on consolidation at this juncture of the cycle for W.
R.
Berkley and some of the properties which might be for sale? We mange our business but what's in the best interest of our all shareholders.
Unlike some companies every single senior person here has their maximum economic gain by having the stock to do well.
We therefore will always look at buying selling or doing whatever is in the best interest.
At this point in time we're always hearing about opportunities but the opportunities have to create value for our shareholders.
And we think there will be a lot of consolidation especially of what I call the billion-dollar club.
The people in the reinsurance business who have $1 billion plus-or-minus of capital and don't fit in the marketplace where we have so much mobile capital people can step in and offer tax protection and so forth.
So we think that unless you're a specialized reinsurer in that billion-dollar class a lot of those people are going to disappear.
I think in addition to that it's going to be hard for mid-sized players and then same-sized category to continue to generate value unless they have a real special mix.
So I think there will be substantial consolidation in both the insurance company and broker side.
But haven't we been talking about this for some time and yet the consolidation really hasn't happened.
What do you think has been sort of the factor which has restricted more consolidation in the space? Well you heard my starting point which was that in this company the senior management of the company has more vested in the value of the shares of the stock than they do in anything else which gives them the same interest as the shareholders.
I think in many companies the senior management is more interested in there job and their pay than they are in what's best interest to the shareholders and it's very hard to differentiate that at all clients.
So I think there is a lot of people convince their boards or otherwise to do what's not the right thing.
And the right thing isn't always to sell at the highest price.
The right thing is to create value for your shareholders over the long run.
And that's not so easy.
Our next question comes from the line of Ronnie Bobman of Capital Returns.
Rob in your prepared remarks and then even I think in the Q&amp;A you mentioned work comp and again not broadly you sort of caveated that to a degree.
And I was wondering -- all right two questions in there work comp area.
One is there is California your California work comp book fall into that sort of attractive categorization or one of the caveats.
And then I think you also mentioned 16% growth in workers comp and I was wondering if California or other states was a particular driver or not a driver of that? As far as comp goes you're right.
We did suggest that it varies greatly by classes within the comp space but then also varies greatly depending on the territory.
We think that whether it be workers comp for any line of business the places where it typically gets ugliest is where it becomes most attractive because the pendulum tends to swing in the broadest manner.
As far as workers compensation goes in California certainly historically California has been one of those markets where the pendulum has swung very broadly.
There are opportunities in California that we think are attractive currently and there are some opportunities in California that we would not touch with a 10-foot pole.
The growth that we have had in workers compensation there has been a meaningful amount of growth coming out of California but it would be wrong to reach the conclusion that is being solely driven by the growth that we are experiencing in California.
That sounds like a very delicately and selective response? Given I'm surrounded by and it's real [ph] mute understand and you could see them all.
He has two lawyers he has all of these people and he has me and all being careful that we're not into it.
We're happy to inform people but we're not happy to inform our competitors.
Our next question comes from the line of Vinay Misquith of Evercore.
Just looking at the pace of rate increases I think you mentioned it was 4.6% overall for the company this quarter.
I think last quarter was 5.7%.
Curious whether that's a function of the market or which I thought you said was kind of stable or you being instead of trying to gain more market share because you think that you're adequately priced? It's a combination of both.
I mean specifically the domestic business where we are getting bit over a 5% there is a place where we are seeing opportunities to lighten up our foot on the rate accelerate it a little bit because we are quite pleased.
So to make a long story short it's really a combination of both.
I can assure you though that we are not going to be writing business where we can't get an adequate rate in order to justify the utilization of the capital.
Secondly your attentions in the primary insurance and the domestic insurance went up just curious if there was just business mix of are you choosing to keep more net on your books? Retention as far as how much we see versus what we keep net? Yes correct.
I mean that was up modestly this quarter last year? I think it's up modestly.
I don't think that there is a lot to it.
Having said that I would tell you that we continue to like others examine our reinsurance purchasing and are considering whether the way we've been buying reinsurance historically will be the same approach that we take going forward or whether there are opportunities to try and optimize that.
So it is certainly possible that you will see us retaining a bit more going forward but we are going to examine that.
But as far as what you're referring to right now I don't think it's particularly material and would not suggest that you read too much into that at this stage.
Just one last follow-up.
On the non-cat where you said so was it about 1 point on the combined ratio you would think? It becomes a little bit of a slippery slope no pun intended because how do you define that.
We have tried to come up with what we would suggest is a very black and white definition in using PCS.
But the reality is after the winter storm season that we've had clearly PCS does not fully encapsulate all of the weather-related losses that are atypical or not the norm.
So whether the roof's collapsing or pipes breaking or slip and fall Gene and I and others we hear about this in our dialogue with our colleagues but it doesn't get incorporated in.
How one wants to calculate that again turns into the shades of gray but when Gene and I did our back of the envelope with the assistance of some colleagues we were getting to something that is comfortably a point and arguably well north of that.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Dwelle of RBC Capital Markets.
A couple questions.
Can you just remind me on your reinsurance business? That business is still predominantly casualty-oriented business right? What percentage is property? I would say maybe 20% of that is property.
Having said that I would tell you that the vast majority of the property business is risk as opposed to cat.
So the cat component is quite modest.
And so to the extend that you're feeling competition pressure price pressure in that business it's really more a derivative of just a lot of capital sloshing around as compared to direct alternative vehicles or anything directly attacking your core markets? At this stage I think that's right.
And you've gotten somewhat of a ripple or a domino effect where you're seeing some of this alternative capital coming in and then trying to play the property or property-related game.
And that in turn is driving some of the traditional players to be feeling the pressure on the property space and to be looking to participate in a broader manner in the causality space.
I would suggest you so far because of quite frankly the scale of our colleagues the balance sheet that they operate from and the service that they provide in the intellectual capital we have been reasonably insulated compared to many others that are front and center in some of the I guess parts of the reinsurance marketplace that are very much in a crosshairs of some of this alternative capital.
Changing gears.
On the domestic business you commented on the overall rate environment in terms of your own experience.
Are you seeing much differentiation in rate gains between say your E&amp;S book and your more standard lines book? The answer is that we're seeing more differentiation honestly today than we saw last year this time but it's not an overwhelming amount.
Which one is better? What product line do you want to talk about? Well I guess broadly differentiating if you're saying its more differentiated now than before that would imply one is better than the other.
So I guess you can answer it.
Let me try and answer it in what will be somewhat of a sanitized way but I think it will be hopefully helpful to you.
I think what you're seeing in the standard market in particularly national carriers that by and large are the ones that tone for the overall market because as their appetites ebbs and flows that determines how much falls off or spills over into the specialty and more specifically the E&amp;S market.
What we've seen in the first quarter as far as national carriers and I am generalizing now is they are taking their foot slightly off the rate pedal and looking for ways to try and not shrink their business as far as count goes because they have grappling with this balance between rate and growth for some period of time.
National carriers in general what we saw particularly in the quarter when it's a line of business that they think that they have their head around and they're happy with the margin they are becoming a bit more aggressive not significantly more aggressive but marginally more aggressive.
Having said that simultaneously we are seeing them become increasingly selective in the marketplace and where they are choosing to participate.
So there are a growing number of examples of where they are kicking business out of the standard market and is going for the specialty and E&amp;S market.
One other comment I would suggest to you that there seems to be an increased focus on large accounts on those some of the national carriers.
I don't know if it's pressure around field underwriters that they feel like they need to make a budget and it's easy to write large accounts to get better but that would be another nugget that something we're seeing out there.
Would you characterize these subtle shifts as maybe the opening shots of the ultimate turn in the market that we may eventually see or would you just see these as just the ebb and flow of emphasis within portfolio of risks? I think I could probably argue either side to tell you the truth.
And having said that I'd like to think that this is the further indicator that at some point there will be further tightening but honestly I do not participate into the internal meetings with some of these national carriers to understand how they're thinking about the business.
This is Bill.
I think one of the thing is you need to recognize is the unforeseen event is what changes the pattern of behavior and with the advent of big data and all kinds of analytics and people's belief in the certainty of such has taken us down a particular path.
And even the best actuary who's old enough to be experienced know that it is that unforeseen event that gets you.
And I think that what's going to surprise people is that unforeseen event when it comes.
And a lot of people have bet big amounts on the certainty of the actuarial science and the mathematics of big data.
So it's hard to predict one way or the other but you know it's sitting out there.
And you know the history of this business always surprises you by that unforeseen event.
The best example was all the mathematical models saying Katrina was a $15 billion storm.
And our next question comes from the line of Bob Farnam with KBW.
A couple of quick questions on the different segments.
So on the global reinsurance segment gross written premium was down for the quarter.
Given the competitive pressures in that space are you expecting would it be hard for us to imagine a case where you're going to have much growth in that line in that segment for the year? As far as the reinsurance goes as Gene referenced a fair amount of the reduction that you saw there had to do with also a change in our appetite for property exposure in Asia.
We certainly remain a participant in the property and reinsurance market in Asia.
But we made a strategic decision to dial that down a bit and to be a bit more selective perhaps than we had been.
So I think that was probably the biggest contributor to that.
So the decline in the property nature that would likely impact the next few quarters as well? I think that you should assume that you -- well I don't have the numbers in front of me Bob so I can't be very granular about it.
I think you will see that we are going to continue to reduce our participation in the property reinsurance market in Asia consequently and it's very possible that will be impacting our topline.
As it relates to the other markets I think that there is probably some level of opportunity but not as strong as you will see in some of the other segments.
We always had a saying volume is vanity profit is sanity.
We're not interested in being a big reinsurance company and losing money.
In the international insurance segment the expense ratio is around 40%.
Just kind of curious if you have a target expense ratio you're looking for that in space as you guys try to gain scale there? I think there are couple of things there.
One has to do with commissions quite frankly and the commissions that you have to pay in different parts of the world are higher than we would like.
And I think the second piece is we have some operations that we started up in certain territories where they don't have the critical mass as of yet from an earned premium perspective.
So we haven't been able to get the full scale to leverage the fixed expenses.
We expect as far as the expense ratio and our internal expenses we expect that we will be able to continue to try and leverage that and we are focused on trying to bring that in line.
Certainly scale will help but we're looking at how we're spending money and how efficient we are.
And then as far as commissions go to a certain extent they are what they are.
But obviously we examine that as well because it is a material cost of doing business.
I understand that the expense ratio in that segment is going to be higher than the others but just curious basically on a combined ratio basis maybe just what kind of combined ratio are you looking at in that segment to achieve acceptable returns? We need to get into the low-90s.
And our next question comes from the Jay Cohen of Bank of America As you briefly mentioned early about some of the alternative capital that you see in the property and reinsurance space but you've had at least one competitor now startup a fund attacking casualty reinsurance which is where you guys play.
And my question is -- two questions maybe do you see that as a trend? And secondly is there an opportunities for you to do something in that space? I think that there is two things.
You're talking about Wexford and Arch and we think it's a good opportunity.
It's different than we would do it.
We think that it's a thoughtful approach but it's different than we would do it.
We think there are opportunities to manage alternative capital but it's got to be very long-term alternative capital from our point of view because we view this business a little differently than most people and we think it's a long-term business.
And we think it's probably not best design for hedge fund kind of investors.
But for the most part we don't have a long-term view.
So we're just trying to think about it moreover how we think we want to do it and where we want to do it.
But clearly more and more people are looking at the industry.
The problem with most people's views is they look as the industry has lower risk than it is.
Over the very long run it's a very long risk business.
Over any three to five year period it can have much volatility than people think.
And many of these investors are investing in riskier kinds of securities.
So the composite of those packages result in entire risk insurance enterprises.
So it's an interesting thing it's going to continue.
It's going to represent opportunities.
We've been looking at it for an extended period of time.
I would hate to tell you in fact since Max Re which was the first one down the line we've been looking at it.
So that tells you how slow we are.
But we're slow because we think the risks are hidden and unforeseen and every time we think we figured it out we find out there is some things we haven't thought about.
But I wouldn't be surprise if we didn't find some way we thought appropriate.
Our next question comes from line of Patty Penn of Morgan Stanley.
The first question is about the insurance segment domestic the year-over-year improvements on the loss ratio accident loss ratio x cat.
Remember about a year ago when some of your like peers showing big improvement because of pricing increase last two years you were able to like no peers.
At that time you mentioned you had some push back from your actuaries and they wanted more conservative taking accident initial pick.
So I just wondering going forward as the rate actually increase as it starting to sort of slow down a bit so the gap between the pricing and the loss cost turn narrow are we going to see sort of like a slower year-over-year basic loss ratio improvements or you're actuary actually is now becoming more confident because of the past year development that it will be able to sustain the level of year-over-year loss ratio improvements? From our perspective as we have suggested we tend to for better or for worse take a cautious approach to coming up with our initial loss pick.
And then as more information becomes available and they become more seasoned then we will tighten those picks up.
Certainly we did not want to declare victory prematurely with not just the rate increases that we've achieved but some on the adjustments we've made in our underwriting appetite as well so if you will rates plus selection and terms and conditions.
And I think it is fair to say that generally speaking we as a group had not taken full credit for all the benefits that we believe is likely to appear overtime.
Having said that as I suggested earlier we are not an organization to declare victory prematurely and to your point I think it is very possible you will see our reported results improve from here.
So I would now add now the lawyer is looking at me with evil eyes what I would suggest is the spread between incurred and paid loss ratio of 10 points is much more than one would normally expect especially given the growth rate.
I think that what that's probably implying is that we're booking somewhat too high an incurred loss ratio at the moment.
And as we move along in the quarter we hope to persuade the actuaries that they're being a bit too cautious.
And second quarter is regarding to your international segments x-ing your loss ratio x cat actuary deteriorated a bit last two quarters.
Just wonder if that's related to the issues that Rob mentioned earlier or some business mix shift change? No.
It's related to the issues Rob spoke about and we're managing though them at the present.
And my last question on the investment portfolio.
And we saw interest rate having going down for years and last year we see some hope of higher interest rates and now this year.
Does that expectation has been tempered down.
I just wonder what's your outlook for interest rate and how do you position your portfolio accordingly? It was very diplomatic to say it was tempered.
I would say hopefully interest rates going up were dashed.
I think that we're searching for asset-focused investments that give us a yield or more predictable gain that the return is in the 5% 6% 7% area that whether it accumulates and is realize at the end of the period of time or comes ratably it doesn't matter to us.
But it does give us lumpier results.
It's hard to find things especially where we historically have invested because there is so much liquidity in the system and liquidity in the system has brought about both by the polices of the various central banks but no one should forget that the number of older people who are saving money for retirement is increasing also so the aggregate savings are increasing on their own independently of this.
So from our point of view we don't see interest rates moving up certainly for 18 months or more.
And it's hard to search for things that are going to give us a good return.
And we don't want to take the risk for when it happens and extend the duration of our portfolio because then you're in a position exactly at the wrong moment to have a longer duration.
So we intend to keep the duration of our portfolio between three and three-and-a-half years which is sort of less than the duration of our liabilities and search for other opportunities that give us what we would think are good attractive long-term yield.
But we don't see interest rates going up for certainly more than a year probably 18 months and even then we don't see them going up very dramatically.
We don't even think global interest rates reflect the softening economy in China.
And there is very little differentiation for quality by a five-year Spanish government bond it yields the same as U.S.
Treasury or maybe they test your quality.
And our next question comes from Ian Gutterman with Balyasny.
I think most of my have been answered.
If I can ask Gene just one last question.
Do you have any color on the reserve releases within the U.S.
segment either by a line of business or by accident years? I was just trying to get a little flavor for this? No we'll go into a little more detail on that in the queue but I don't have anything more to add to it right now.
And anything that would be seen as different than what we would have seen last year? No.
And our next question comes from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
First of all I just want to point out the egg on my face with the new disclosures on workers comp.
Congratulations on that they were excellent and thank you.
The second issue some things that Rob mentioned one is the possibility of retaining more risk in terms of our reinsurance purchasing.
I don't think that's what he said.
That's not what he said okay that confused me.
I thought basically he may consider retaining more and if he didn't I was trying to listen the math behind it.
He just didn't say retaining more risk he said changing our reinsurance retention.
I think he did said retain more but maybe I'm wrong.
So then skip that if that's not what he said because I didn't understand that.
Josh I think the point is that right now we see somewhere in the neighborhood of $750-ish million of premium into the traditional reinsurance market so to speak.
And we like others are looking at that and we continue to look at that and make sure that what we're doing makes sense.
So the reason I think you said retaining more risk and I was trying to be explicit we're trying to examine the premium we see and understand are there ways to change our reinsurance program that may or not mean changing the risk profile.
We're seeing more premium without retaining more risk? I'd say that Josh I think the answer to your question is that we buy a fair amount of reinsurance now and we continue to examine that and think about whether what we're doing makes sense prospectively.
The other question relates to the 100 or more basis points of winter weather non-cat losses would that be compared to 1Q '13 or a typical winter.
So I think 1Q '13 was particularly benign in terms of winter weather.
I think the answer would be both.
And I'm sure I'll work on that answer.
I don't think it really matters.
You'll do it however you want to do it.
Could we go on to the next question Nicole? (Operator Instructions) And I am showing no further questions at this time.
Thank you all very much.
We appreciate it.
And as I said we're very pleased to report and we expect the year to continue to show better returns.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today' program.
You may all disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.
Good day and welcome to W.R.
Berkley Corporation's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
The speakers' remarks may contain forward-looking statements.
Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words including without limitation believes expects or estimates.
We caution you that such forward-looking statements should not be regarded as a representation by us that the future plans estimates or expectations contemplated by us will in fact be achieved.
Please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 and our other filings made with the SEC for a description of the business environment in which we operate and the important factors that may materially affect our result.
W.R.
Berkley Corporation is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any such obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
William R.
Berkley.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning.
We were really pleased with our quarter.
We think it continues to demonstrate our capacity to generate returns in excess of 15% and we expect that'll continue through the year.
Rob Berkley is now going to talk about operating results and then we'll go over to Gene who will talk about financial results and then I'll come back and give you a general overview.
So Rob? Yes thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Market conditions during the second quarter remained somewhat of a mixed bag not dissimilar to what we've seen over the past few quarters.
The level of competition continued to vary greatly by territory product line even down to classes within product lines.
The domestic insurance market -- in the domestic insurance market the casualty lines continued to be amongst the most promising.
Workers' compensation in particular continues to be a bright point.
Having said that we would caution people not to paint with too broad of a brush.
This can very much vary based on region.
Property margins in general is somewhat flattish.
Having said that cat-exposed property remains under growing pressure.
Our speculation is this may be a result of the increasing amount of property cat capacity that is available in the reinsurance market and where the pricing for that reinsurance capacity has gone over the past 12 18 24 months.
Professional lines continued to vary greatly.
In particular the excess public D&amp;O and professional liability for large law firms is under a good deal of pressure.
Having said that by and large the professional market is somewhat flattish also not dissimilar from the property market but there are a few product lines where there are opportunities to grow the business.
Consistent with our comments in the past commercial auto remains an area of concern from our perspective in the domestic insurance market.
We believe this continues to be an area that is poised for a hardening.
On the international insurance front again it varies greatly by territory.
Having said this the U.K.
and Europe overall remain exceptionally competitive.
Additionally the Canadian insurance market as well as the Brazilian market remain flavors of the day.
The global reinsurance market is the part of the industry that gives us the greatest reasons to pause.
There continues to be a lack of balance between supply and demand.
Many participants appear to have an unquenchable thirst for premium which seems to be addressed through the eroding underwriting discipline.
In regards to the company net written premium for the quarter was approximately $1.49 billion.
This is an increase of 11% when compared with the corresponding period last year.
This result was led by our domestic insurance segment which grew at a rate of approximately 16%.
4 of the 16 points of growth was associated with rate with the balance coming from exposure.
On the other hand our global reinsurance segment's net written premium was down 17%.
This was primarily a result of market conditions and our colleagues exercising the appropriate level of discipline.
We applaud this behavior.
The loss ratio for the quarter was at 61.2%.
This includes $40 million of cat-related losses.
While this level of cat activity is modestly above what we had expected generally speaking this type of cat activity is not unusual for us in the second quarter due to severe consecutive storms.
The expense ratio continued to move in the right direction coming in at 33.2%.
This represents an improvement of more than 0.5 point when compared to the second quarter of '13.
This progress is a result of many people's efforts in particular our colleagues in the reinsurance segment.
We expect this overall trend to continue though on occasion we may need to take 1 step back in order to take 2 forward.
When you put all the pieces together the company achieved a combined of a 94.4% which is more than 2 points of improvement when compared to the same period last year.
While others are going to be going into some level of detail with regards to their balance sheet I'd offer the comment that we remain very comfortable with our aggregate loss reserves.
This is demonstrated not only by the $24 million of net positive development we had in the quarter but also the fact that this is the 30th quarter in a row of net positive reserve development.
While it continues to be evident that this is not a classic insurance cycle we remain quite encouraged by the number of opportunities that we see before us to achieve attractive return.
We remain focused on trying to find the appropriate balance or the optimal balance we like between rate increase and exposure growth.
As we examine our policy year numbers our confidence continues to grow in our ability to improve our results on a reported basis from here.
Thanks Rob.
Gene you want to go through the numbers please? Okay thank you.
As you can see we did have a very strong quarter with a 55% increase in net income to $180 million and a 65% increase in net income per share to $1.35.
I'll start with just a few more details on underwriting.
As Rob said we -- our premiums grew 11% to $1.5 billion.
The increase was led by the domestic segment which was 16% with workers' comp up 26% and other liability up 15%.
International premium has increased 10% in terms of U.S.
dollars and by 20% in regional currencies.
And if you look at the growth in terms of regional currencies it was primarily from business in Australia and Latin America.
Reinsurance premium's decline of 17% was due to a decline in treaty business in both the U.S.
and the Asia Pacific region.
Our overall underwriting profits increased 82% to $80 million.
Our reported loss ratio declined 1.6 points to 61.2% and our accident year loss ratio before cat declined 1.5 points to 6.0%.
The accident year improvement was led by the domestic segment which improved 3 points as earned price increases continued to outpace loss cost trends.
Cat loss is at $40 million or 2.8 points when compared with $34 million 1 year ago.
This year we had cat losses from 12 named events in the quarter the largest of which was a $9 million 15-storm event in late April.
Favorable reserve development was $24 million and resulted from reserve releases from the domestic segment that were partially offset by a modest increase in reserves for the international business.
The overall expense ratio of improvement was 6/10 to 32.2%.
It reflects a decline in both our net commission ratio and our internal expense ratio and was led by our reinsurance business which improved by 3.5 points.
It gives us an overall combined of 94.4% an improvement of 2 points from 1 year ago.
Investment income was down 3% to $139 million as a result of a decline in the annualized yield in our fixed-income portfolio to 3.7% from 4.0% 1 year ago.
This reflects a reduction in our average duration from 3.1 years at June 30 down to 3.3 years at March 31.
Our earnings from investment funds and the arbitrage trading account were in line with the prior year quarter.
Realized gains were $109 million up from $33 million 1 year ago.
The gains in 2014 included a gain of $85 million from the sale of an office building in London.
Our realized gains for the first 6 months were $162 million and for the last 3.5 years were $619 million which is an average gain of $177 million per year.
Pretax unrealized gains also increased by $189 million from the beginning of the year to $586 million at June 30.
The average credit rating of our portfolio remained unchanged at AA-.
Corporate and other expenses were in line with the prior year except for the foreign currency movements.
We reported a modest loss of $2 million in the quarter for foreign currency movements which is in line with our average gain or loss for a given quarter any given quarter but much less than last year's second quarter which had a gain of $7 million.
Our effective income tax rate was 31.6% in the quarter compared with 27.5% 1 year ago.
The tax rate was higher in 2014 because a greater portion of our pretax earnings were attributable to income with tax at 35%.
That includes realized gains as well as underwriting income.
The 2014 tax rate on operating income that is before realized gains was 29.2%.
That gives us a net income of $180 million an annualized return on equity of 16.6% for the quarter and our book value per share is up 10.5% from the beginning of the year to $36.20 at June 30 2014.
Thank you Gene.
So we were quite pleased with the quarter.
We continue to try and find investment opportunities that will give us gains or income to maintain the decline in interest rates or to offset rather the decline in interest rates.
It's the nature of our business being primarily casualty requires investment returns to achieve our 15% goal which means given interest rates and given our desire not to extend the duration which we think adds substantially to our balance sheet risk and the risk to our owners and given our desire not to change the quality of our portfolio materially we conclude the only alternative is to go for gains that while not as easy to model offers some fairly predictable over an extended period of time gains.
And as I continue to say this was a particularly good quarter.
What we're hoping for is to earn $25 million or more a quarter.
And we'll be able to deliver on that from our ordinary portfolio and we would expect that we'll be able to continue that going forward.
And that's still our objective.
The building we bought we bought with the expectation of selling it and not to hold it for a long time.
We just saw good opportunities to sell.
We have other real estate that we'll own for a very long time and other real estate that we own with the goal of selling it.
We continue to work hard to find alternative investments and we believe we'll be able to continue achieving the goals that we've set forth.
The basic business is more competitive than we would have expected.
But as Rob mentioned price increases still exceed loss cost trends.
That's a good thing.
It makes us want to grow and expand where we can.
That doesn't mean we're going to grow and expand to every place.
It means there are plenty of opportunities.
You have to find them and you have the find ways to take advantage of them.
So we think it'll be an excellent year.
We think we'll achieve our 15% after-tax goal and we're quite enthusiastic over the balance of this year and we don't see anything that's going to change dramatically next year.
With that Andrew we're happy to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Amit Kumar from Macquarie.
Just a few questions.
The first question relates to the discussion on domestic insurance on pricing exceeding the loss cost.
Could you sort of help us understand how you expect the pricing versus loss cost delta to play out for the remainder of 2014? And at what point does it inflect? This is Rob.
Our view right now is we're probably getting give or take around 200 basis points over loss cost as being additive to margins if you will.
I think trying to speculate exactly how it will unfold over the balance of the year we'll have to see.
Having said that our hope and it's beyond hope actually expectation based on what we're seeing so far is -- give or take where we see things now is not a bad indicator for where we see things over the next call it 6 months.
Got it.
I guess the only other question I have is going back on the discussion on comp.
And I know we discussed this Q1 2.
How should we think about I guess the new business component versus the renewal business component in this unit? I guess I'm trying to say real loud the impact of pricing versus areas where others might be withdrawing due to issues.
So your question is the growth that we're having how much of it is driven by rate versus exposure? I'm not sure if I...
Yes yes.
That's correct.
And comp specifically.
Yes honestly it really varies by territory.
There are certain areas of the market where we're very happy with the returns that we believe that we are achieving and we are willing to accept rate increases that are very modest.
And actually in some cases we may be willing to accept rate that is flat but expiring because we're encouraged again by what the return opportunities are.
Having said that there are other parts of the country where from our perspective you need a meaningful amount of additional rate to achieve those returns.
When you look at our overall growth in comp I think it would be fair to assume that it is some combination but it is going to -- as far as exposure versus rate but it is going to vary by territory.
I mean one thing you might take note of that surprised everyone and that is medical costs last year went down for Medicaid which was a real surprise to everyone.
So when we talk about loss cost and trends and looking ahead I think there's so many new variables with changes.
It's a tough thing to predict for anyone out far ahead.
Our next question comes from the line of Vinay Misquith from Evercore.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Max Zormelo on Vinay's line.
My first question is on share buybacks.
There's quite a pullback this quarter and I'm wondering if that's function of the growth opportunities you are seeing in the market or if it's -- that's your stock price? Can you give us some color on that please? As we've always told people we're opportunistic buyers of stock.
I mean it takes several things.
Number one it takes price we're willing to pay; and number two it takes availability of shares because the nature of our rules we can't just drive the stock up we have to buy in certain environments.
So when the stock starts to move up and we're not in the marketplace we can't see.
We can't drive the stock up.
So we have to have availability on downtick.
We can't buy in all kinds of issues when we're in a blackout period.
So after the end of the quarter when actually there were some times we would have liked to buy we couldn't buy it because we were blacked out.
So no we haven't changed our view.
We still would have to have an appetite to buy a stock back.
And no it's -- it looks more trendy than it is.
It's just the way the opportunities fall out given our judgments and what the market does at any moment in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Second I have a couple of numbers ones.
The tax rate as you mentioned in your prepared remarks was higher.
I'm just wondering what drove that? And also going forward what should be the expected tax rate for the rest of the year? It's too high I can tell you that.
Well but Gene...
Yes so what drove it is we -- a greater proportion of our taxable income in the quarter was more stuff that's taxed at 35%.
So the realized gains perhaps very large in the quarter that's all 35%.
And the underwriting is growing faster -- the earnings from underwriting is growing faster than the earnings from investment income.
That's taxed at 35%.
So you'll see that trend when that happens.
One of the problems is if you take the position of somebody who is trying to model this is if you don't count the capital gains as income which is 35% that raises the tax rate because it's so significant overall probably by at least 2 points maybe 3 because that's at a full 35% whereas the non-capital gains probably is more like 28%.
Do you understand what I mean? Research Division</strong> I understand.
And I did take that into consideration but I think it still comes out closer to 30% right? Is it something...
No I think it's around 28.5%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then one more if I may.
But despite pressures..
By the way that's too high anyway so.
Research Division</strong> The 28% is still too high right? 28% -- I think it's 28.5%.
And yes it's too high.
It's terrible.
Research Division</strong> But would you expect the full year to come at around the same rate? I would expect on ordinary income the full year will be around the same maybe slightly lower but not much.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last one the expense ratio in the reinsurance segment declined quite meaningfully this quarter.
I'm wondering if there were some onetime items in there.
No I think that -- well there may be a little bit of that by and large it's a reasonable run rate to assume going forward.
Having said that obviously if we try to expand the business or develop it in other territories there could be some expense associated with that.
So long story short if the business continues with the platform that it has today then I think what you saw is a reasonable run rate.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just have one question on reinsurance and kind of the market conditions there.
Are you looking to sort of take advantage of better terms and conditions in your reinsurance buying? It looks like the seeding percentage didn't go up.
But I'm just trying to understand how we should think about that lever for you guys going forward.
Yes Mike this is Rob.
As it relates to -- from the perspective of us being a buyer of reinsurance or a seeding business we're certainly aware of the market conditions and what the market will bear and there's always the tug-of-war between is it a -- is it that attractive and that compelling the type of seeding commission you can get that is overwhelms what you believe is the underlying profitability of the business? And would you rather retain it? And we buy more than 100 different programs and we go through them one by one and try to examine are very better off buying or are we better off retaining? Additionally as we've talked about I believe it was last quarter we are examining in general whether we should be buying the same amount the same way going forward.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then -- yes? I think we could add a little bit to that Michael and say that clearly we understand what's going on in the marketplace.
And where our opportunities are appropriate we'll take advantage of it.
But our own business is getting better so you need -- you have to look at the changes in your own business vis-à-vis the changes in terms and conditions.
I'll just add one quick point to that.
The gross premiums for the quarter are up 10% and the seeding premiums for the -- written premiums for the quarter are up 2%.
Research Division</strong> Right got it.
Okay that makes sense.
And then I remember there was a time we talked about startups and kind of the amount of premium growth coming from sort of the legacy businesses and the sort of startups.
And I know we haven't really talked about those for a bit but just trying to get an idea of the sort of geography of the written premium growth is.
How much of that is coming from the more established platforms versus maybe some of these newer platforms that have scaled or recently scaled or are still scaling? At this stage Mike as you have referenced a moment ago in the past a lot of the growth was coming from the younger operations.
While they've remained meaningful contributors to the overall growth more recently as market conditions have continued to improve we have seen a greater contribution from the more mature businesses.
So depending on how you define startups or younger businesses versus more mature businesses and where one wants to draw that line we could try and break out percentages for you.
But having said that I think at this stage once -- it would be safe to assume that there's a notable contribution coming from both mature businesses as well as some of the younger ones.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just last one if I can.
On the workers' comp book has the growth been balanced between excess and primary? Or has it been more one or the other? And I'm just trying to sort of balance the growth that we've seen there which would seem to be exposure growth I think in reference to a prior question as well.
How do we balance the sort of competitiveness that you're seeing with the continued opportunity that you found for growth there? Yes the first part of the question the lion's share of the growth is coming as a result of the primary comp not the excess comp.
And then as far as what's driving the growth it really varies by territory.
There are some territories where in order for us to be willing to write the business we are looking for meaningful rate.
There are other territories where quite frankly we are very happy with the available margin and it is the growth that's being driven by exposure.
So it really can vary state to state.
And then actually in some -- particularly in some of the larger states it can vary by region within that state.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I'm not sure I quite got this on the prepared comments but I believe you said that the underlying loss ratio for the domestic business improved by about 3 points from the year earlier.
Is that accurate? Yes.
Right.
Research Division</strong> I guess Gene then the follow-up is or the question is it looked overall for the company the loss ratio got better by about 1.5 points which would suggest obviously there's pressure elsewhere.
We don't see the actual number yet because we don't have the breakdown of the development.
But where is that -- where is the pressure coming from that's offsetting the improvement in the U.S? Right.
It was -- there's some increase quarter-over-quarter in the international.
As to your loss ratio although it's still very good below 60% but it's a little bit higher than it was a quarter ago.
And reinsurance has not changed too much.
But...
Research Division</strong> What's going on internationally? Is that just kind of one-off events? Or is there real underlying pressure on the margins? Should we expect that to continue internationally? Well as I said I think it's -- in terms of the loss ratio it's still pretty good.
And it's just slightly higher than it was a quarter ago.
So it's not a -- not something that's going to be a problem going forward.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Shanker from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> My question revolves around the alternative investment portfolio.
Historically it's been fairly correlated with the prior quarter's market returns and -- which were flat and did -- had a very nice quarter in 2Q '14.
I'm wondering if the composition has changed at all.
No not really.
Not really.
I think that several -- one of our big alternative investment portfolios achieved their hurdle rates so they got their carries dropped in which for the -- for a quarter or 2 will reduce our returns as they get their hurdle rates caught up.
But nothing really.
It's just -- it's going along and it's doing pretty well.
And I think that for the year it'll be in line with our expectations but that's the only thing that's changed in the alternative investment portfolio.
Research Division</strong> So just -- I'm not so familiar I think.
So this quarter it had a little extra which might come out a little bit in the next couple of quarters? I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> Because if they received their carry you were saying it was a little bit higher here.
It might be...
No.
What I meant is we -- that the alternative investments didn't do quite as well as they might have because we had -- we accrued the carried interest over the next 2 quarters for 1 of our big alternative investments.
So the quarter we just reported and the next quarter we'll be impacted as we -- as a significant portion of our investment returns will go towards their carried interest.
But that's the only change in our alternative investments.
In fact the alternative investment had an excellent quarter in the second and we would expect the same in the third.
[Operator Instructions] And I'm seeing no other questioners at the queue at this time.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Have a great day.
We're quite happy about where things are going and we see a great balance of the year.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This now concludes the program and you may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day and welcome to W.R.
Berkley Corporation’s Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
The speakers' remarks may contain forward-looking statements.
Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words including without limitation believes expects or estimates.
We caution you that such forward-looking statements should not be regarded as a representation by us that the future plans estimates or expectations contemplated by us will in fact be achieved.
Please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 and our other filings made with the SEC for a description of the business environment in which we operate and the important factors that may materially affect our results.
W.R.
Berkley Corporation is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any such obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
William R.
Berkley.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much.
While we were very pleased with our quarter we think it demonstrates our earnings capacity and we think that looking ahead while there are bumps in the road we’re quite optimistic that we’ll continue to be able to deliver outstanding returns.
I’m going to let Gene start out by talking about our financial results - excuse me I’ll let Rob Berkley to start by talking about our operating results and followed by Gene.
Go ahead Rob.
Thank you.
What a relief.
I thought Gene is going to take all my material.
Good morning everybody.
Market conditions during the third quarter by and large followed the trends that we’ve seen over the past few quarters.
The domestic insurance market continues to offer the greatest promise from our perspective.
Casualty and workers’ comp continue to standout as particularly attractive.
Non-cat exposed property also offers some opportunity and we are seeing the ability to get additional rate there.
Having said that cat exposed property is a bit of a different story.
As it relates to professional liability it is very much a mixed bag or it continues to be as we’ve suggested in the past.
By example D&amp;O is very split between what we would define as the Fortune 1000 where that excess market is particularly competitive.
Having said that the smaller cat part of that marketplace there is opportunities for meaningful rate increase in both the primary as well as the excess.
Commercial auto continues to be a bit of a challenge.
Rate increases are being achieved in the marketplace and we expect that this is going to need to continue for an extended period of time.
Adequate returns for this product line at times feel as though it’s a carrot tied to the far end of a long stick but I think we’re getting there gradually.
On the international front it depends on the corner of the globe that you are talking about but I would make the comment that both for U.K.
and select parts of Continental Europe remain exceptionally challenging.
The big question mark or concern from our perspective continues to be the global reinsurance market.
We’ve talked about this over the past several quarters and it continues to be front and center on our radar screen.
The fact of the matter is the cold that the property cat market caught some time ago seems to be spreading to other parts - continuing to spread to other parts I should say of the reinsurance marketplace and it would seem as though no bottom has been found yet.
While benign cat season can mask some of these issues there should be no misunderstanding the underlying challenges persist.
Turning to our organization and how we did over the third quarter net written premium came in at approximately $1.525 billion.
This is an increase of 7% when compared with the corresponding period last year.
The growth was primarily driven by our domestic insurance business which grew at approximately 12% and was partially offset by our reinsurance segment which was off by approximately 16%.
This very much fits with our expectations given the market conditions in the reinsurance space that I mentioned earlier as well as in prior calls.
Let there be no misunderstanding we applaud our reinsurance colleagues for their underwriting discipline.
Rate increase for our insurance operations was approximately 3% and the domestic insurance was a bit above that and our renewal retention ratio remains at about 80%.
Loss ratio for the quarter was at 60.7% which includes approximately 1 point associated with cat.
It’s worth noting and Gene is going to get into this in a bit more detail that in our cat number there are two aviation cold war losses that are coming out of our international segment.
Expense ratio showed improvement and we thought it was encouraging particularly what came out of the domestic insurance segment.
This is another area that we are very focused on and we expect that we’ll be able to continue to improve on what’s going on with our expense ratio over the quarters to come.
However I would caution you that on occasion we will need to take one step back in order to take two steps forward.
As it relates to the combined it was 93.5% on a calendar year basis and when you adjust for reserve development as well as cat we came in at 93.4% on an accident year basis and I would remind you that this is approximately 2 point improvement from the third quarter last year.
On the topic of loss reserves we had net $13 million of positive reserve development and I would remind you also that this is the 31<sup>st</sup> quarter in a row of net positive reserve development.
As we look forward to 2015 we remain encouraged as we continue to see our rate increases in excess of loss cost trends continue to earn through.
Thanks Rob.
Gene do you want to pick it up?  Okay thank you Bill.
As you can see we did have an outstanding quarter with a 46% increase in net income and an annualized return on equity of 17.4%.
I'll start with just a few more details on the underwriting results that Rob covered.
As he said overall premiums were up 7%.
The domestic growth of 12% was led by workers' compensation professional liability and selected short-tail lines.
The international premiums up 3% was a result of lower growth in Europe and a modest decline in South America.
And in the reinsurance segment the decline of 15% was a result of less treaty business written in both Asia and the United States.
With respect to the underwriting results underwriting profits were up 17% to $95 million with a combined ratio of 93.5%.
Just recapping again the major components of underwriting accident year loss ratio before cat down 1 point to 60.6% as rate changes more than offset our loss cost assumptions.
Cat losses $15 million one loss ratio point and that included $9 million from storms in the U.S.
and another $6 million that Rob referred to from the aviation events in the Ukraine and Tripoli.
Favorable reserve development was $13 million primarily in the domestic segment and overall expense ratio down a percentage point to 32.8% with the domestic expense ratio down a full 2 points as many of the expense initiatives underway are beginning to have a stronger impact across more of our company.
If you look at those combined ratios by segment domestic improved by 1.6 points due to improvement in both the accident year loss ratio and expense ratio partially offset by slightly lower reserve releases.
International segment combined ratio increased 6 points due to the aviation-related cat losses that I mentioned before as well as modest unfavorable reserve development and the reinsurance segment combined increased by 1 point to 98.7% due to lower earned premiums and slightly lower but still positive reserve development in the quarter.
Turning to investments our overall investment income increased 43% to $179 million.
Most of the increase was related to investment funds which earned $59 million up from $12 million a year ago.
The increase in the investment fund earnings in the quarter was primarily related to strong returns for funds in the aircraft leasing real estate and energy sectors.
The overall yield on the portfolio excluding gains was 4.6% in the quarter up from 3.4% a year ago.
In addition we reported realized gains of $72 million up 65%.
The largest gain in the quarter was a $39 million gain that resulted from an IPO by one of our private equity investments.
We report that investment under the equity method of accounting and under that method our share of the increase in the company’s stockholders’ equity as a result of the IPO which was $39 million is reported in realized gains.
However the full market value of the stock at its current price is not recognized until -- and if and until the stock is sold.
So at the current price the market value of our stock exceeds the carrying value by $260 million and that’s not in the earnings or on the balance sheet.
For our overall portfolio aggregate pre-tax unrealized gains were $561 million and the average duration and credit rating were unchanged at 3.1 years and AA-.
In August we issued $350 million of 4.75% senior notes that mature in 2044.
A portion of the proceeds from the offering will be used to repay $200 million of 5.6% senior notes that are due in May of 2015.
Our effective income tax rate increased to 31% in the quarter from 29% a year ago.
As I talked about on our last call as we earned more from underwriting and from investments other than investment income our effective tax rate has moved closer to 35%.
We repurchased 738 000 shares in the quarter and 5.6 million shares so far this year.
With that we finished the quarter with a book value per share of $37.10 up 13.1% from the beginning of the year.
Thank you Gene.
I’d like to talk about a couple of things about our investment results complain about the accountants and try to give you a little bit better picture of where we expect to go.
As hopefully most of you remember I told you certainly for the past few quarters that we would anticipate on average $25 million or more per quarter of investment returns.
That’s going to be a little lumpy.
It may be more one quarter it may - we may miss a quarter.
But the fact is achieving the kinds of investments goals that we’ve set forward and the returns we want for our company preclude us from having high-quality fixed-income securities for all of our portfolio.
We still have the vast majority of our portfolio in those high-quality fixed-income securities more than enough to meet all our liabilities.
So we’re talking about relatively modest amounts $2 billion or $3 billion of our roughly $16.5 billion or $17 billion investment portfolio.
Where we invest in these non-traditional kinds of things we’ve been very successful in doing it.
Part of the issue that we face is the accounting rules which tell us where we book things how we book things which are not relevant from the point of view of building book value but it seems to impact analysts more substantially than reality and that is if it’s in operating income people think that’s good.
If it’s in capital gains it doesn’t count.
Oftentimes these things are the same.
So we continue to build our investments portfolio in alternative kinds of things our private equity portfolio which is where we own large percentages of companies.
A good example would be Health Equity which is the company Gene was speaking about where we booked a substantial income gain and we have an unrealized gain in the portfolio which is not reflected anyplace of $260 million or as of probably yesterday $285 million.
But in fact those are the accounting rules.
We carry it at our equity and if it was in our regular ordinary portfolio our book value would increase.
There are other things that are similar to that.
In our real estate portfolio we have substantial gains that aren’t recognized but again [indiscernible] costs.
It’s not that these realized gains are new and they went from yesterday’s value to today’s value.
They are reflective because of accounting rules at costs and equity or whatever and when in fact something happens that allow us to move the unrealized unrecognized gains it suddenly becomes visible.
We think that’s a very significant number.
Hard to get a definitive number on it but certainly you measure it in $5 a share or more.
So we are pleased with our real investment results but have to recognize we elected to take a course that gives returns that are less subject to building a model around them.
We continue to be optimistic that there will be opportunities to find such returns.
We at this point have been able to continue to do that and we’re very pleased at where we are this quarter and are optimistic about the balance of the year and continue to see opportunities that we can invest in.
So with that I’m happy to take questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Amit Kumar of Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Congrats on the quarter.
Just very quickly and the color was very helpful.
Some of the questions you were getting last night related to the discussion on the energy-related exposure in your investment funds especially as it relates to the drop in I guess crude and energy pricing of 22% in Q3.
How should we think about that piece and its impact in Q4 numbers? Current gave us a $5 million $6 million positive in the third quarter and my guess is it will be breakeven to a loss in the fourth quarter.
Again it’s a bumpy process the energy markets but they are not highly leveraged from that point of view.
On our exposure to current has been constantly diminishing as they liquidate their assets.
So it’s a smaller number at the moment but I would think that would be a negative swing next quarter.
The other question I had was I think when Rob was talking about the expense ratio in domestic and obviously you pointed out the improvement and yet there were some cautionary language around that.
Is this -- should we think about I guess the 31% as sort of the number we should think about for the next few quarters or is there more room for improvement in that? I’ll let Rob answer the question.
I think as far as the domestic goes I would encourage you not to get fixated on the 31.1% it can move up and down some number of basis points.
Having said that I think over a longer period the trend is going to be downward.
A lot of it is quite frankly going to be driven by a mix of business and market conditions.
I think what you really have seen in the domestic business is that our earned premium continues to grow and we have gotten to the point where we’re able to further leverage our platform.
So again I would suggest that you recognize that it could go up or down a little bit but I think overall there is probably more likely over time room for a bit more improvement than not.
Got it.
That’s helpful.
And just a quick numbers question for Gene.
Do you have the paid losses number? The paid losses or the paid loss ratio? Paid loss number.
I’ll take anything.
The paid loss ratio in the quarter was 53.4%.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Just a couple of questions in the domestic business.
So it looks like the short-tail lines grew a bit and comp also grew a bit.
We saw some other players look like they are pulling back a little bit there.
In comp is that excess or primary? And can you give a little bit of color on short-tail lines please? Thanks.
The growth is primarily driven by the primary comp as opposed to the excess comp.
I think we had a little bit of growth in the excess comp but again it was mainly primary and that’s just because again as we suggested in the past Mike we don’t think that everything is rosy for comp nationwide but we think that there are certain markets certain classes within the comp space that are particularly attractive and we like the returns.
So we recognize that the name of the game is to - is it’s a cyclical business.
The name of the game is to build up the iceberg as big as you can because over time market conditions will become less attractive.
So that’s what we’re doing in the comp space adding to exposure adding to count again because we like the returns.
Got it.
And then just on international how should we be thinking about that? It looks like the combined is kind of sticking up in the kind of 98-ish range recently.
You’ve had some growth the growth kind of pulled back a little bit this quarter.
How should we be thinking about the trajectory for that business? Is that an area where you expect to continue to grow? And do you want to see that or do you expect to see maybe the expense ratio follow the same sort of pattern that we’ve seen on the domestic side recently? I think in the short run you’re going to see the growth rate slow a bit from what you have seen in past quarters.
I think on the expense ratio side clearly we have some work to do and we are focused on that and as far as the loss ratio there’s some work to be done there.
Some of the businesses that make up that segment are performing particularly well.
The syndicate is doing reasonably well putting aside the two aviation cold war losses.
Our European/U.K.
insurance business aside from our Lloyd’s operation we have some work to do there as I think I mentioned a quarter or two ago and we have already taken some action to get that to a better place and we think the results of those actions will be coming through in ‘15.
Got it.
And then just Gene can I ask a numbers question? On other expenses it looks like that number ticked up in the quarter.
Obviously that doesn’t run through the combined ratio but just trying to think about just overall operating income it looks like it ticked up from about $33 million to about $42 million in the third quarter.
Is that just some seasonality trend or is that just something that flipped up this quarter and last quarter or is that a level that we should be thinking about? Yes that’s the parent company expenses and then any expenses that we don’t allocate back to the subsidiaries and one of those is a big portion of our incentive comp program is kept here at the parent level.
So as we make more money we accrue a little bit more for that and that comes through in the quarter when our returns are higher but it’s unallocated expenses that we choose to paying here at the parent level.
Mike let me just be a little more explicit.
As our return for the year is going to move over 15% we start to have to accrue on a different level for an incentive plan which is not at all -- which is all paid for at the parent company expense level and not allocated.
So as it’s become much more likely that we’ll exceed that 15% return for the year one of our long-term incentive plans required a great accrual.
I understand.
So as time goes on and you are accruing past that threshold on a net basis then you start accruing more in terms of comp.
Yes except this was a catch up for the first three quarters not quite but we weren’t there.
So when I say catch up you make it for the year.
So as soon as you’re confident you’re going to make it for the year you make it.
So for example God forbid we would have a terrible fourth quarter we would find that would be in over accrual.
Got it.
So then if I were to take that accrual piece out and look at whatever the corpus of the expenses were other than that is it fair to say whatever that was that didn’t change much year-over-year? There will be some modest growth but nothing that significant.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Shanker of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
I want to talk to you guys about the traditional investment portfolio as opposed to the alt investment portfolio.
I noticed that your investment yield seems to have gone up by about 20 bps compared to a year ago or the second quarter.
Have you changed strategy on investing or what might be causing that? The answer is no.
Let me -- our duration is unchanged our quality of the portfolio is unchanged.
For a period of time we were able to invest our short-term cash and bring it down because cash flow was up.
So our mix of short-term cash changed a little bit but it was quirky.
Our returns have been on their way up and honestly we did better than we had expected to do and we were very pleased but we don’t think anything that’s particularly different.
So if we look past the previous quarters run-rate trend on shrinking NII in this environment is more normal instead of a big pop that you had in the quarter? I don’t know if I’d say shrinking but I would think that it would be more or like flat to slightly up.
I think this quarter probably ended up being disproportionately more cash invested.
The cash has increased again so the return probably will move back sort of in between where we were and where we are.
So it’s not -- I don’t think you should think we’ll get a much higher yield than we’ve averaged.
It might be slightly higher but this was I think because of how we invested our cash I think it was slightly better.
And do you have a breakdown for prior development by operating segment? As you know we do not give it on this call.
It will be available afterwards.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Kai Pan of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
First question is on the investment side thank you for the disclosure about the substantial gain that’s not on the books.
I just wonder if you can quantify if you were to mark-to-market all your holdings which are currently not on the book do you have estimates of how much would that be as a percentage of current shareholders’ equity? I said it would certainly be more than $5 a share.
$5 a share thank you so much.
And also just trying to understand a little bit about that investment process basically for the non-traditional investments so could you give a little more sort of color like what’s the approach there and how [indiscernible].
The question is really to say what’s the consistency of the return going forward? Consistency in the short run there is not.
Consistently when we continue to be opportunistic searching for what we believe are good risk-adjusted returns where we aren’t required to have liquidity.
So we bought an office building in West Palm Beach Florida because someone needed to close and needed to be a cash closing in a very short period of time and it was the very best office building and to get approval to do that again at this point in time would take years.
That would be an example.
So this deal just come to you or you have a regular sort of process and like a basically investment process and that is or sort of as sort of opportunity arise? Both we have a regular process as far as private equity things where we have our own private equity team where things come in.
We have our own real estate team that looks at these and some things such as the real estate transaction in West Palm Beach they come to us because someone here knows someone.
We’re sort of just out there looking.
The second question is on the reinsurance side.
Given all the alternative capital as well as of now that there are some curious talk primary company talking about create internal reinsurers that potentially pull the demand from the open market.
I just wonder sort of your thoughts on both as a buyer and seller of reinsurance in this changing marketplace? I think stating the obvious it’s a better moment to be a buyer than a seller.
I think as far as long-term goes it’s still a bit unclear as to the permanence of this alternative capital.
It hasn’t fundamentally been tested from a loss perspective where a lot of the decisions and judgments which are based on models proved to be wrong as a result of some type of unforeseen or unfortunate events.
I think in addition to that while parts of the casualty reinsurance market have become a bit more competitive much of the alternative capital has not necessarily found a way to effectively penetrate that market.
To make a long story short our expectation is that the reinsurance market particularly the traditional one is not going to go away overnight.
This is a challenging moment and there remain opportunities to participate in the reinsurance market that are reasonably attractive but there is no doubt it is a competitive time.<br> I think that this is an ever-so alluring business appearing so predictable but proving to be particularly unpredictable when the unforeseen event arises.
Many companies after Katrina and several others would have proved to be insolvent if in fact anyone had said okay you have to pay your claims now and they went out and rushed to raise capital very quickly on financial statements that at best were questionable.
I think when Rob said they’ve been untested it’s a very quick period of time when these companies could be tested that capital accounts could be gone and not only will they be tested but the people who purchased reinsurance from some of them will be tested.
The moral commitment of participants in this business is a really important factor.
Many of the people who are now playing in that industrial game don’t have substantial moral commitment to our industry.
Lastly on capital management and it seems like you have a very strong earnings year-to-date and buyback slowing down a little bit.
So just wondered your thoughts on buybacks going forward or any thoughts on the special dividend? One of the things we face is the opportunity to buy back stock when we’re blacked out because of our lawyers say we’re taking a risk.
When there’s opportunities we’re trying to constantly measure our capital our alternatives of regular dividends special dividends and buying back stock.
But as you and everyone knows when we talk about myself and other senior management of the company everyone is concerned about capital usage and we’ll be very conscious of all those things and we are examining all those options.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Vinay Misquity of Evercore.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Several small questions.
First thanks for the $5 number of unrealized gains.
So is that an after tax number? It was an estimated number to give people a magnitude picture of what it could be.
I’m really trying to give people an idea.
I would tell you that it probably is but it’s an estimate.
And as I said it shouldn’t be modeled in and it can’t be modeled in.
It’s a number to give people a sense of what’s out there.
No.
That’s fair enough but I think that’s really helpful.
Second question was pricing versus loss trend and I believe Rob said that you have some ways to go on the international side where you can actually reduce the combined ratio.
So given that pricing and loss trends are now roughly flattish and maybe going the other way but that may be offset by some margin improvement in the international.
Do you still think that you can keep margins flat or do you think that the combined ratio is going to pick up next year? I think obviously we are in the throes of our planning process but when we look at the front windshield our expectation is that for 2015 we should be able to certainly keep up with trend if not exceed it in general.
In addition to that we think that there will be some further benefit coming through in the expense ratio particularly on the international front.
So all things being equal I think the reported numbers barring unforeseen events should probably hang in there or improve next year and on a policy year basis I think there is certainly room for us to do as well if not better.
I am more optimistic.
I think that in fact we’re going to -- as premiums get earned we will see continued improvement from the past 12 months’ rate increases.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And just wondered to have a clarification on the yield on the fixed income I thought that the dollars of fixed income for earnings this quarter was about $120 million that was about $107 million $108 million in prior quarters there seems to be a jump this quarter.
So what are the one-time items in there? There are various things but you got to remember our cash flow almost $400 million also.
So there was a big amount of cash flow also that accounted for part of it but the fact is that I think that there were a whole -- every quarter there are various changes things that happen in -- we have 52 operating units we have lots of bundles of securities.
The general view I would have is our core portfolio will have a slightly better trend than it had in the prior quarters but you shouldn’t think we’ll do a lot better than we did before.
I can just give another reference to that.
Our yield on the fixed income portfolio for all of last year was 3.6 and it’s 3.6 in the third quarter this year.
It was slightly lower in the first two quarters but it’s back around where it’s been for the last four quarters.
So I just want to be sure that there was nothing sort of untoward this quarter and this quarter is it maybe the base for the run rate for the future? I think this quarter had a couple of quirks to make it slightly better but not an overwhelming number.
Okay.
And the last thing if I may the pace of reserve releases has slowed a little bit this quarter just curious as to what’s happening there.
Thanks.
The answer is over time as pricing of reserve releases get more modest they should get more modest and the fact is as you saw we’ve already had three or four companies adverse reserve releases.
So we’re pretty pleased our reserve position is very comfortable and I think that everyone has been spoiled by a few of our very large competitors with huge reserve releases.
It’s never been an issue with us.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brett Horn of Morningstar.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
I wanted to ask a follow-up question on the previous question on the expense ratio on the domestic lines.
I appreciate your comment that it could potentially tick up here in the very near term but it sounds like you’re positive about the longer-term direction.
Obviously you’ve got more active in those lines and presumably are scaling your costs there.
I guess my question is to see a positive longer-term trend do you need to see the pricing picture get even better or is it - would just the status quo situation allow you to continue to leverage that cost? I’m pausing because I’m trying to figure out how to answer the question without getting myself in a corner splitting hairs.
So I think the answer to the question is for the domestic insurance business we think give or take a certain number of basis points we can do a little bit better over time as our earned premium continues to grow reflecting the written growth that we talked about earlier.
I think that is not necessarily perfectly smooth or perfectly predictable and it can ebb and flow by quarter.
What I can tell you is that all of my colleagues both domestically as well as outside of the United States are focused on our expense ratio overall as a group and are determined to make sure that we are spending what we need to spend and not spending more than we need to spend.
So will the 31.1% come down x number of basis points? Yes I think it’s possible that it could get a little bit better from here over time.
A lot of that’s going to be driven quite frankly by mix of business as well and to a certain extent the type of reinsurance we’re buying but I think the areas of lower-hanging fruit are probably in the international segment over the next six to 12 months.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen of Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
A couple of questions.
I guess first on the reinsurance inside one thing we do notice is that you retained a bulk of your reinsurance premiums your net to gross really hasn’t changed.
In fact it’s going up a little bit.
Given the softness in the reinsurance industry have you explored and could there be an opportunity to buy some retro from people that want to sell it too cheaply potentially? Jay I think probably the best way for us to answer that is we are cognizant of the market we are cognizant of the various types of pools of capital that are out there that seem to have an unquenchable thirst to participate in this marketplace and we have in the past and continue to explore and consider whether there are alternatives to using our shareholders’ capital that would make more sense.
Got it.
How was that for a non-answer answer? It’s a reasonable non-answer though so it’s okay.
The other question was on Health Equity you obviously gave us the numbers as far as market value in excess of cost.
When we think about the contribution --.
That’s in excess of our book cost.
We have a real cost of zero at this point.
Got it.
So carrying value let’s say.
When we think about the economic value forgetting accounting is that something we should tax adjust anyway or is that an after-tax number? No.
That’s a pretax number.
We’ve elected not to sell any of the stock because we think it’s an outstanding company but I think that we have not tax adjusted it.
But eventually when you do so obviously there would be a tax bill.
Yes the answer is yes.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Larry Greenberg of Janney Capital.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Just one quick one related to Health Equity.
So they declared a dividend I think the day before the IPO and you guys got $17.5 million is that included in the gain that you reported or is that something that you might report on a lag basis? That’s taken into account.
That reduced our cost basis and then the increase in book value took it up.
So it’s my frustration with the accounting treatment.
I finally gotten old enough that I can tell the accountants they are wrong but I won’t convince them they are wrong.
It all appears in the game.
Thank you.
Our next question is a follow-up from the line of Amit Kumar of Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Just one quick follow-up on the investment funds.
I guess the other question we were getting was the discussion on the merger arb piece of you investment portfolio there has been a lot of chatter in the news regarding the unwinding of some deals and apart from the tax discussion do you get a sense that you will see some impact from all that is going on in the merger arb space in your Q4 numbers or is that somewhat unaffected? So you’re asking me to tell you what already has happened right? Yes.
And the answer is no.
We do not get particularly adversely impacted.
So that goes under the forecasting what already happened exception under our safe harbor.
Our next question comes from the line of Ian Gutterman of Balyasny.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Bill I was hoping or Rob I was hoping one of you could expand a little bit more just about the market competition and how it might affect your future growth plans and I guess I’m thinking specifically.
You mentioned international so maybe you could expand upon what you’re seeing there in London and so forth.
But also are we seeing competitors that maybe six months or a year ago would have been focused more on improving their own books trying to be more aggressive for new business or are we seeing more E&amp;S business return to standard markets things like that? I think it would be fair to characterize - maybe to bifurcate between domestic and then we can talk about I mean markets outside of the United States that we participate in that you wish to.
But on the domestic front I think it is fair to say the market is a bit more competitive now than it was 12 18 24 months ago.
Having said that we do believe that we’re still able to achieve rate that’s a bit above what we believe loss cost trend to be.
Having said that it’s an interesting moment because the level of competition seems to ebb and flow by the month.
So for example we found July to be particularly competitive August was a bit competitive September was a little bit less competitive and actually October was very encouraging for many of our companies in the group and again this domestically.
So it’s up and down.
Clearly some of it is driven by competitors perhaps trying to make their budgets at certain times of the year but I think we are pretty comfortable that by and large the market conditions that we have seen in the third quarter will certainly continue into the first half of ’15 if not beyond.
As it relates to the U.K.
market I think you had referenced also it’s an exceptionally competitive place.
You got a lot of very skilled people managing a lot of capital within a couple of blocks of one another and as a result of that you get a very competitive marketplace.
In addition to that much of the business they write is cat prone and short-tail.
So when things don’t go the wrong way people end up feeling pretty good about themselves and sometimes that euphoria from the shorter-tail lines of business can appropriately or inappropriately spill over into the longer-tail lines of business and as a result of that you get a very competitive market.
That’s been the case for some period of time and it is our expectation at some point you’re going to have to see that change particularly for some of the casualty lines.
Got it.
So international obviously is more difficult.
In the U.S.
it doesn’t sound like it’s - like I assume it always does on some accounts but as an overall theme it’s not impacting your ability to grow in the areas you want to grow in then? We are comfortable with the U.S.
insurance market.
We think again a bit more challenged than it was 12 24 months ago but we still think it is a good opportunity as opposed to the reinsurance market which is facing more of a headwind on a global basis and the international insurance market obviously it varies by territory but as we suggested U.K./parts of Europe are also facing a bit of a headwind.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is a follow up from the line of Josh Shanker of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Sorry to belabor things on this cash in the quarter trying to understand a little better.
If you receive a lot of cash in the quarter and reinvestment at the current market doesn’t that depress the overall yield of the portfolio? I guess I need just a little education on how that works? I’m sure you can talk to Gene after the call.
Okay.
Then next question.
So I was trying to answer for myself and I noticed over time there’s been a concerted effort to decline the percent of the portfolio invested in the municipal bonds which means the bonds of course have a lower yield than the traditional fixed income corporate.
Is that going on and why if maybe we think that tax rates are at risk to rise or maybe they’re not at risk to rise why is the strategy of the company trying to own less munis over time? In the area that we invest the relative yield municipals are not as attractive and the reason our tax rate is going up is because we’re having substantial realized gains which are fully taxable.
So the investment income is a smaller percentage of our overall income but if you look at the relative yields on an after-tax basis municipals are particularly rich in the five years or under.
Our next question is a follow-up from the line of Jay Cohen of Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Looking at the international segment and if I build in a little bit of adversative element low-single digit numbers millions of dollars it looks like the accident year loss ratio in that segment ex-cat jumped up quite a bit from a year ago and even quite a bit from the first half.
I’m wondering are there any other non-cat large losses in that segment and/or what drove the presumed increase?  There is no nothing else in there but we did raise our loss pick as we saw some of that unfavorable development come through so we raised our loss pick and there was a bit of catch up because we came through in the quarter and the expense ratio is slightly higher as well.
I was just focused on the loss ratio.
So on that loss ratio then Gene for a reasonable run rate number should I look at maybe the first nine months of the year as kind of what you suspect that business is producing? I think that would be pretty accurate.
Thank you.
And I’m showing no further questions.
I’d like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thank you all very much.
We were really quite pleased with the quarter and quite optimistic with the balance of the year.
I wish you all a very happy Halloween.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your attendance in today’s conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Have a great rest of your day.
Good day and welcome to the W.R.
Berkley Corporation’s Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
The speakers' remarks may contain forward-looking statements.
Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words including without limitation believes expects or estimates.
We caution you that such forward-looking statements should not be regarded as representation by us that the future plans estimates or expectations contemplated by us will in fact be achieved.
Please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 and our other filings made with the SEC for a description of the business environment in which we operate and the important factors that may materially affect our results.
W.R.
Berkley Corporation is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any such obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
William R.
Berkley.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much.
We are pleased to report that for the year we hit our 15% target.
On return in general we think the environment is pretty good; not as good as we'd like but certainly overall we’re pleased with where things are going.
I am going to turn the call over to Rob for our operating results and then we’ll follow up with Gene and then I’ll try to finish off and answer questions.
So Rob? Thank you.
Good afternoon.
During the quarter trends in the commercial lines insurance and reinsurance market were by and large consistent with what we have seen over the past several quarters.
The reinsurance market remains exceptionally competitive and is yet to find the floor; however the pace of erosion at least for the moment seems to be slowing.
The drivers behind this competitive market continue to be the same as they've stayed in over the past several quarters.
The alternative capital coming into the market is putting a great deal of pressure on the marketplace overall and traditional players are trying to rationalize how they are able to compete going forward and be able to also generate a sensible return.
At the same time we continue to see changes in the behavior amongst ceding companies.
Cedings are looking for ways to buy more efficiently; they are looking to combine programs and reduce the number of treaties they buy while simultaneously looking for ways to increase their net retentions.
As it relates to the insurance market certainly a very different picture; much brighter than that in the reinsurance space though the tailwind seems to be gradually slowing.
Select parts of the workers compensation GL and professional market remained very attractive to name a few while on the other hand long-haul trucking aviation and parts of the marine business continue to be a concerning puzzle.
With regards to the company’s performance net written premium was approximately $1.46 billion up slightly more than 7% when compared with the corresponding period last year.
The growth was primarily driven by our domestic insurance operations as well as select parts of our international business though it was partially offset by our reinsurance segment which is trying to navigate its way through obviously the very competitive environment that I mentioned earlier.
Rate increases for the domestic insurance business were approximately 3.1% and at this level we believe our margins continue to expand.
It’s worth mentioning as well that this rate increase was complemented by a renewal retention ratio of approximately 80%.
The loss ratio for the quarter came in at a 60.8%.
This is an improvement from last year in spite of the challenges that our international segments faced.
You may have noticed this in the press release that the international segment did have a difficult quarter and it certainly wasn’t a great year.
As it relates to the quarter there were really two meaningful issues that led to the outcome.
One had to do with CAT losses and Gene is going to be touching on this shortly but it really stemmed from two events one in Australia and one in Mexico.
The other issue was some loss development that we had coming through in our UK and European professional liability operations.
We believe that we have our arms around the issue and are well on our way to addressing it.
The expense ratio improved during the quarter by 1 point to 32.5%.
Our domestic insurance business led this improvement coming in at almost 2 points of improvement.
This was partially offset by the reinsurance segment which saw some deterioration in their expense ratio and this deterioration was really driven by higher commissions.
We believe that there is opportunity to improve on our group expense ratio from here but takes time and the hard work of many.
I would remind you that this type of activity on occasion requires one to take one step back before you can take two steps forward.
When one point puts all the pieces together the organization achieved a combined of a 93.3% which is just shy of a 2 point improvement from the corresponding period in 2013.
Gene is going to be touching on the highlights from the balance sheet but I would offer one comment and that is we had net positive developments of approximately $23 million in the quarter and this represents the 32<sup>nd</sup> quarter in a row of positive development.
When one takes a step back and looks at the quarter clearly the international segment had its challenges but as I suggested a moment ago I believe that we are well on our way to remedying the situation and it just takes a little bit of time for that to come through in the numbers.
The reinsurance segment certainly faced its challenges as far as the marketplace that it operates in.
Having said that we believe that the discipline and knowledge and experience of our colleagues in that space we’ll be able to continued to manage the capital effectively.
And finally the domestic insurance business which had a particularly strong quarter we think is well positioned to be able to carry on into 2015 with similar or improving results.
Thanks Rob.
Gene do you want to pick up the numbers please.
Okay.
Good.
Thanks Bill.
Well for the fourth quarter of 2014 we recorded net income of $111 million or $0.83 per share and a return on equity of 10.2%.
Although the fourth quarter underwriting results improved significantly from a year ago those gains were offset by lower earnings from investment funds and from our service businesses.
I'll briefly summarize each of those activities starting with underwriting.
Rob covered the premiums.
I'll skip to the underwriting profits.
Our overall underwriting profits increased 46% to $100 million with significant improvement in both the loss and expense ratio.
The accident year loss ratio before cat loss is improved 1 point to 61% as year-to-date rate increases up nearly 5% on an earned basis continued to well outpace our loss cost trends.
Catastrophe losses were $18 million in Q4 compared with $13 million a year ago.
As Rob said the 2014 cat losses included international cat losses of approximately $11 million which were due primarily to two events; one was a $7 million loss from a large storm in Brisbane Australia in November and the second was a $4 million loss from a late claim received by our Lloyd's business for Hurricane Odile which was a category four hurricane that made landfall in Mexico in mid-September.
Our prior year reserve releases continued to develop favorably with $23 million of positive development in both the fourth quarter of 2013 as well as the fourth quarter of 2014.
In 2014 the domestic and reinsurance segments reported favorable development that was partially offset by prior year reserve strengthening for the international segment primarily for professional liability business in the U.K.
and Europe.
Our overall expense ratio declined by 1.2 percentage points in the fourth quarter and almost 2 percentage points for the full year.
The overall expense ratio for the fourth quarter was 32.5% which is our lowest quarterly expense ratio since early 2009.
The domestic segment expense ratio improved by 2 points and the international ratio by one point.
That was partially offset by a higher expense ratio for the reinsurance segment which was up 3 points primarily due to additional contingent commission payments on profitable reinsurance business.
That gives us a combined ratio of 93.3% for the quarter compared to 95.1% a year ago.
The domestic combined ratio improved by 2 points to 90.6% and the reinsurance combined ratio improved by 8 points to 92.5%.
The international combined ratio was up 6 points due to the cat activity and loss development that I mentioned earlier.
Turning to investments our core investment income that’s for four investment funds was $118 million in the fourth quarter nearly unchanged from a year ago as the slight decline in bond yields was offset by an increase in invested assets.
The average annualized yield on the core portfolio was 3.2% in the fourth quarter compared to 3.3% a year ago.
Investment funds on the other hand reported an aggregate loss of $3 million compared with a profit of $22 million a year ago.
The 2014 loss was primarily due to losses from energy funds and from another fund that invests in stocks.
For the full year the average return on investments for all investment funds was 12.7% in 2014 up from 8% in 2013.
Realized gains from the sale of investments were $21 million in the quarter; that’s the 23<sup>rd</sup> consecutive quarter that we’ve reported a realized gain on investments.
And at December 31 2014 the average rating and duration of the fixed income portfolio were AA- in 3.2 years and the aggregate unrealized gains before taxes was $471 million.
I mentioned energy from our services business which includes both our insurance services company and our wholly-owned aviation company; they were $4 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
That’s down $12.5 million from the fourth quarter of last year which was our strongest quarter to-date for those businesses.
The decline in profits in 2014 compared to 2013 for those services businesses was due primarily to the timing of aircraft sales and service contracts.
Interest expense increased $4 million in the fourth quarter compared with a year ago due to the advanced issuance of $350 million of subordinated debentures in August of '12.
A portion of those proceeds from that offering have been set aside to repay $200 million of senior notes that are maturing in May of 2015.
We also reported a modest foreign exchange loss of $1 million in the fourth quarter of this year which compares to a more significant FX gain of $4 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
In taxes the effective tax rate was 31.8% in the fourth quarter which is consistent with the effective tax rate throughout 2014.
However compared to a year ago it's significantly higher the tax rate; in the fourth quarter of 2013 was 25.5% and that was due to the utilization of foreign tax credits.
For the full year that gives us net income up 30% to $649 million a return on equity of 15.0% and an increase in our book value per share inclusive of the special dividend that we paid in December of 13.5% to $36.21.
Thank you Gene.
So I'm going to try and go over what I think are the important points of how our year was; I'll talk about the disappointments as well as the high points.
The biggest disappointment were the income from funds.
The worst part of it was our oil-related investments as well as one particular common stock fund.
Unfortunately those are bumpy and one of the oil-related funds that we invested in will likely in the first quarter have an adverse impact compared to its similar quarter in the first quarter of 2014.
We think at that point it will be behind us.
Oil prices don’t have to go sky high to have dramatic improvements but when you choose to mark-to-market which is the nature of how we mark the funds in order to give more transparency that’s just how it is.
We are offsetting declining investment income with the growth in investable assets.
You can see investable assets are up roughly $1 billion last year and they will be up somewhere between $650 million and $1 billion in 2015 which again will help offset the decline in yield.
We are putting more and more money into short term assets.
We believe inflation is around the corner; we just aren't sure how far the corner is away.
But in addition to the $700-odd million of cash we show we have roughly $1 billion in other maturities which are less than a year but we can get a 1% yield on those maturities so we think we are willing to go out that slightly longer distance to get up to a 1% yield.
But overall we’re still being very cautious.
We don’t expect to change that.
Our reinvestment rate's probably 2.5% maybe a little better but we are mainly searching for things we can invest in that we may give up a little bit of liquidity but we get 4% and 5% returns but no market liquidity.
High quality securities however is the only thing we are looking at.
The core business the basic insurance underwriting business continues to do well.
The performance is excellent.
There are a bump here and there that comes up.
It’s the nature of our business.
We fix them we don’t hide them; we address the issues.
We think we’ll be able to continue to generate outstanding returns especially given the interest rate environment.
And whether we get 13% 14% 15% or 17% I can’t tell you at this moment in time but we are going to still target that 15% return and we hope we’ll be able to continue to achieve that.
As far as capital management goes we think there is lots of things happening in the industry where opportunities to use capital to obtain capital are available and we’re assessing those constantly.
We are and have always been careful managers of capital whether it’s through special dividends or buying back stock.
We are owners of the company.
We are not theoretical owners; therefore we act as owners maximizing the return for our shareholders.
We will continue to do that.
Nothing has changed from that point of view.
When we think the best use is paying a dividend we are going to pay a dividend; when the best opportunity is buying back stock that’s what we will do.
We’ve looked at acquisitions; we continue to do so.
Most of them don’t enhance the value to our shareholders.
We’re swapping our stock and the values we see in it for someone else’s piece of paper that we don’t think adds a similar value.
We’re just not anxious to buy someone else’s business at a premium price.
We’ve been able to add business; we’ve added $700 million of business in the past 24 months net to us and we’ve done it internally.
We think we’ll be able to continue to grow at a substantial rate.
So we’re pleased with how things are and we’d like it to be more opportunities.
Many of these acquisitions of similar companies will create opportunities for us because there are people that lose their jobs and create opportunities; there are people that don’t want to have the same exposure so they don’t want to double up on that exposure.
We continue to believe our model is good and we will continue to build on what we have of course never closing our eyes to where we are.
So with that I am happy to answer any questions in the call.
We’ll be glad to answer any questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Vinay Misquith of Evercore.
Your line is now open.
Hi good evening.
The first question is on the expense ratio that improved quite significantly this quarter.
For the company as a whole you are running at about a 33 expense ratio.
Where do you see it going in 2015? Do you expect the continued sort of decline and how much do you expect it to decline? All right.
Rob will take that.
Go ahead please.
Yeah I think Gene what we showed for the first quarter I think we’re at a 32.5.
Right.
33 for the full year yeah.
33 for the full year.
Our view is that there is opportunity for us to try and improve across the board.
Certainly we think that there is opportunity for us to try and improve where we are on the domestic front.
We think that the expense ratio assuming there is not a dramatic shift in the environment can improve a bit from there from the 30.
We are hoping that we can drive it down to something that starts with a two but the greater opportunity for us is on the international front.
And again while it’s a smaller piece of the business it’s not going to have the same impact but clearly we need to be able to do something that is notably better than something that starts with a four.
I think that one thing to keep in mind though as it relates to the international expense ratio the reality is there are higher distribution costs oftentimes found on the international front.
So maybe to answer your question more specifically assuming that market conditions remain as they are and we are able to maintain a level of earned premium where we are or better I think you will see us be able to drive that expense ratio down over some period of time by certainly more than a 100 basis points.
So we hope we are going to be under 32 this year.
That’s for the company as a whole? Yeah.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Now you’ve grown quite significantly in 2014.
So given the increase in competition do we expect the growth to slow down meaningfully in 2015 versus 2014? Well first of all the 7.2% growth 3% roughly was rate 4% was growth.
Right.
I think that it clearly is going to be more difficult but I don’t think 4% real growth is something that we would think would be impossible to attain.
Okay and just a numbers question maybe for Gene.
Gene the tax rate was about 31% in 2014.
What’s the normalized tax rate for 2015 and 2016? It should be in that neighborhood.
I mean the only thing that varies for us is - the only taxable item that we have is not a 35% of tax-exempt income for the most part so what varies for us is when we have a differentiation between other sources of income and tax-exempt income.
So that should be a pretty good run rate.
As I said variation from a year ago was foreign tax credits which can move around a bit as well.
But I would say that’s a good benchmark.
The other thing is common stock dividends which - we sure have moved out of common stocks and there’s an opportunity to move back and that might change it also.
So one of the issues you have is what our companies as a whole are going to do with their dividend rate so forth.
Okay great.
And then one last thing; on the alternatives - because of energy we’ve seen that vague.
Should the first quarter of this year should the number for the alternative investments be even lower than the $3.6 minus million we had in the fourth quarter? The only piece that we know for sure is energy; the energy partnerships will be - result in - they would not make us any money.
I would think the partnerships as a whole will be certainly not as good as the corresponding first quarter.
We don’t have the numbers at this point in time; everything is not in.
As soon as we know we’re going to do our best to give people a heads up.
We were surprised about a couple of pieces of that so we’ll do our best to keep people informed.
We think that the 12.7% return for the year was an okay return but it was lumpier than we expected.
But we would expect that we will have a fine return for the year but it could be a little lumpy.
Sure.
Sure but the first quarter you expect some sort of positive number on the alternative funds? I don’t know the answer to that.
I’ll know within the next three weeks but I don’t know now.
I’ll know a lot better - one of the things you have to understand also is a couple of those are things that are in foreign currencies and so there’s a lot of moving pieces to that.
We will let you know as soon as we know.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Amit Kumar of Macquarie.
Your line is now open.
Thanks and good evening.
Who is this? It’s Amit Kumar from Macquarie.
All right go ahead Amit.
Hey just very quickly maybe a follow-up on Vinay’s question.
Is the correlation between the energy funds and oil prices is that like sort of a 1:1 correlation? I guess what I’m trying to ask is if I look at the Q4 energy price crude price change and then sort of apply it is that a good enough estimate or there are too many moving parts to make that assumption? Now there are a lot of moving parts.
I think directionally it’s a good indication but it’s not a one-to-one kind of thing.
Directionally it’s the right sense though.
Okay that’s helpful.
The other question I had was there was some comment in the opening remarks on the international professional side and well is that more of a methodology change or was there some sort of a one-time item on I guess on the loss ratio side? The short answer in the interest of time and I’m happy to get it to more detail if you like is that we had some negative development coming out of a few of the professional liability lines and in our effort to get our arm around the situation we did what I would define as a reasonably deep dive and looked to try and make sure that we fully had our arms around it.
Got it okay.
And then just finally on capital management.
I think you said that lots of things were happening but most of them don't enhance I guess your older value but that is… I didn’t say that; I didn’t say they are going to enhance shareholder value… I think you had looked at and passed.
Pardon me? No.
we said we will continue to use capital management in order to enhance shareholder value whether that’s buying back stock paying a special dividend or whatever and there’s a lots of things going on to give us opportunities to figure ways to optimize the use of our capital.
So net-net no change in the capital management stance versus what we have seen in the past? No I don’t think.
I think that there are more people doing transactions which will give us more opportunities as our competitors try to do this and we think that’s going to be an enabler for us to do better.
Okay fair enough.
That’s all I have.
Thanks for the answers.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Hello Michael.
Hi how are you sir? How are you doing? So I had a question about the expense ratio decline in domestic.
What specifically was driving - our ceding commission's a factor potentially in that decline? I am sorry Michael.
Could you - the last piece of the question you broke up a little bit.
Could you do that once more please? Sure.
Yeah.
Are ceding commissions playing a role in the expense ratio improvement year-over-year? Ceding commissions are a component of it.
I would also suggest to you that we are looking for ways to be more efficient and save dollars in how we operate the business which is a meaningful component as well.
And finally obviously we benefit from earned premium.
Right.
Okay.
Okay.
Yeah because it looks the dollar amount - the dollar expenses are up like I don’t know like 5% against - certainly a lot more than that on the revenue side.
So I was just curious.
So some cost savings.
And other actions that you continue to take? I think that you should be operating with the understanding at least in my opinion that we feel as though that there is opportunity for further improvement but again as I at least tried to suggest earlier it’s not a smooth curve.
Sometimes we need to take a step back in order to take two steps forward but I think that there is still opportunity for us to improve in many places.
Again the international segment is one of the more obvious places from our perspective.
Got it.
And then I think you said $24 million in net development Rob.
Sorry it looks like… $23 million.
$23 million.
So we get about 50 basis points of year-over-year margin expansion on the loss ratio purely as we think about these factors separately and then about 90 basis points for the full year.
How should we think about from here? I mean what’s the right sort of starting point to think about what you expect from or what should we expect from margins on an underlying basis from here? Barring the unforeseen event we think that it's possible that it could improve from here.
Got it.
And then just last if I could just a couple of numbers questions.
The insurance fees - insurance expenses in the fourth quarter when I look year-over-year kind of blipped up pretty noteworthy on a year-over-year basis.
I was just curious what was going on there if there is something specific in the fourth quarter.
And then other expenses seemed like they have been running a little bit higher than the year-over-year for the last three quarters or so.
And just trying to understand if there is - maybe there is some comp that's running through there like equity comp or something relative to the stock price so I can think about the forward.
Thank you so much.
Yes well the service fee are a large part of that is we do a lot of business with a signed risk plan and so as we start new business with different states you will see that number go up and that is what has been happening.
The increase in the other expense is part of that's due to the increase in the service fees but also as a parent company we have some expenses that we don’t allocate back to parent company cost including the cost of running operation and that goes to the Other Expense line - some of that is incentive comp as well.
And there is a lot of leverage in some of that when we hit a 15% return where incentive compensation it’s in and is all at the parent company.
Got it okay.
So we should be thinking about sort of that relative to the other costs and expenses - the service expenses maybe thinking about that more relative to the insurance service fees.
Is that fair? That is true.
Okay great.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Larry Greenberg at Janney Capital.
Your line is now open.
Hi and thank you.
Just wondering how the decline in energy prices might be affecting your underwriting operations that concentrate in that sector Berkeley oil and gas and I think Berkeley offshore.
I'm going to let Rob take that.
I think that at this stage it’s a little bit premature for us to be able to quantify that in a definitive manner.
Having said that it’s hard to imagine that we are not going to see that coming through as the health of the part of the economy that we service struggles a little bit more than it has in the past.
We are seeing early signs of the challenges.
Just you’re not seeing the same amount of investment from the operators that we have seen in the past.
We certainly are seeing a slowdown as we look at some of their receipts.
In this early stage we certainly are seeing a bit of a slowdown as it relates to their payrolls.
So the long-term effect what the impact will be on our business from an underwriting perspective we don’t get the same visibility that we do on the investment side or certainly not nearly as timely a manner.
We do expect that there will be an impact.
Having said that we think the businesses are very well positioned and in spite of the headwind they'll do just fine.
So beyond maybe the top-line impact is there anything we should be thinking about from an underwriting margin standpoint? I don’t think so.
I think that we believe the underwriting decisions are very sound depending on how difficult that part of the economy gets for what period of time.
That may for some period have a negative impact at some point on our expense ratio which we are more than prepared to deal with if the businesses begin to shrink and that’s fine as we’ve demonstrated in the past through other challenging times.
But overall the underwriting appetite and the underwriting discipline does not ebb and flow it is constant and we’re not particularly concerned about it.
But again it may be a top-line phenomenon which will impact the expense ratio but that's about it.
Okay thanks.
And then Bill I'm just curious on your case for the reemergence of inflation at some point.
And would you - so maybe what’s the basis for that case and then would you extrapolate that to impact industry loss trends? I think ultimately there are issues that are old and common sense which says the government keeps printing money; more money will eventually convert it to inflation.
The complexity that we are adding is we now have a global economy with people bringing money into the dollar with interest rates overseas basically going to negative.
Even 20 basis points is more attractive here than it is when you are paying 20 basis points to deposit your money.
So I just think it’s eventually going to come about where we are starting to see pressure on wages here.
If I was more certain about it we'd have a lot more cash because it's still only 10% of our portfolio is short.
I think that it’s a judgment that that’s the direction we’re going and the duration of our portfolio is somewhat shorter than the duration of our liabilities but modestly shorter; it's 3.2 years compared to say 3.5 years 3.6 years.
Again 10% or 12% shorter.
This is not a business where we make big bets because we think we’re brilliant; we hedge.
Would we go a little shorter? Maybe.
But right now we are cautious.
We are looking for things to do that those less liquid assets would give us inflation protection.
We’re just being cautious because we see inflation as a major uncertainty that’s sitting out there.
And would you think that loss trends kind of follow the traditional inflation path? Right now lost trends are totally benign and they are - our assumption of certain loss trends at 2% give or take maybe 3% if anything we are probably overestimating for the moment but I don’t see anything that’s going to dramatically change that.
And clearly the question is how things heat up when do they heat up what causes it to heat up how's that going to interact with the Affordable Care Act and certainly medical costs are being part with.
I think that people who have to build models and have to make estimates have to make some assumptions.
Our assumption is we take a step in one direction and try to hedge a little bit.
Our hedges we think there is a possibility of inflation.
We are assuming there is more inflation than it appears at the moment.
But we'll have to change our view if inflation starts to pick up.
We will have to go with the other things.
But we do own real estate we do own other really hard assets that will protect us in the event of inflation and it will protect us more than in fact the levels of inflation.
Thank you.
I appreciate your thoughts.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Vincent DeAugustino of KBW.
Your line is now open.
Hi it's is Vincent DeAugustino of KBW.
Thank you.
Bill just your last point kind of segues into my question here and it's on the strong dollar.
And so aside from any currency translation moves I'm just wondering if we should think about any exposure to whether it'd be trade credit or any other lines where a strong dollar may actually raise claim incidence? We have negligible exposure to trading credit.
Let me - the answer is we don’t like trade credit in any consequence of way; we probably have some peripheral trade exposure in some - we end up having exposure in everything someway someplace somehow even though we are not supposed to.
So we probably have a bit here or someplace.
But we don’t like trade credit.
I think the real - the interesting thing is the dollar strength causes us to mark our assets to market and while we mark our ability to market we don’t get a full credit for all those liabilities.
So we've got some benefits at the moment where we've hedged our credit exposures as far as currency goes and we don’t get the benefits on our balance sheet of those hedges.
So if anything the strong dollar on our balance sheet is probably a positive at the moment.
I think from an economic point of view clearly a strong balance sheet is we’ll have a more negative - on our balance sheet not directly but indirectly on the economy so it's something we need to be concerned about.
Okay good color.
And then on the workers comp front you guys have talked about the term was building up the iceberg with returns being a little bit more acceptable.
And we’ve kind of heard similar comments from some of the competitors in the space and I’m just curious if kind of the pace of building up that iceberg has been impaired by any incremental competition in that workers comp arena of if it's still business as usual there.
This is Rob.
I think the answer is that clearly workers compensation is a bit more competitive than it was 12 months ago.
Having said that the business that we’re writing we’re still very confident that it is achieving or exceeding the targeted return that was referenced earlier.
So yes the market is more competitive but we don’t think that it's gotten to the point that it's not still attractive.
I think it's important to note that one should not paint with too broad of a brush; there are parts of the market within the comp universe that are exceedingly attractive and there are other parts of the market which one should tread very carefully.
So I think we as an industry tend to talk about the comp market as one but quite frankly it's really a bunch of micro markets all under the banner of comp both depending on exposure as well as territory.
Okay good to hear and then just one last one from me.
So Bill it’s a big picture question for you.
On the reinsurance side it seems like the premise here has become bigger is better and so I'm curious is from your standpoint if you think any of this consolidation benefits the industry or if it's really just repackaging some of the same issues that we’re dealing with today.
And thank you.
I think that the people who benefit will be the executives of the industry who do that.
I think that for the most part bigger is not necessarily better.
I think there are some companies that are too small to be competitive I think can't get along with $1 billion or $2 billion of capital but I think $4 billion or $5 billion of capital was probably okay.
My best judgment is it's just fewer people for the government to look at who don’t pay taxes.
It just makes it easier.
Okay thanks for the color.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Kai Pan of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Good evening.
Thank you for taking my call.
First question is on the pricing side.
You said that rate increase currently stand around 3%.
That’s roughly the same last quarter.
So can you talk a bit more about the competitive dynamics in marketplace? Do you see the pricing deceleration will be orderly in 2015 and next year or there is potentially going down quicker than what we’re seeing right now? Well I don’t think there is anything orderly about what we’re seeing today to tell you the truth.
I think it’s a pretty mixed bag.
Again we end up talking about rate increases but we are covering a pretty broad spectrum of different types of insurance here and there are some that are getting tremendous increases still at this stage and there are others that are - quite frankly we’re willing accept rate reductions because we believe in the margin in the business.
I think ultimately what should we expect going forward; it in part is as a result of some factors that are out of our control part of it being how aggressive will the reinsurance market get from here and are they going to empower irresponsible behavior in the insurance space.
So I don’t really know to tell you the truth how orderly it will be but we certainly at this stage don’t see anything in the marketplace that would lead us to believe that anything is going to fall off the table.
Great.
Then secondly on your - the profession line in your international book you mentioned there was some issue there.
Could you detail a little bit on that? And also have we seen the worst already sort of taken care of or there could be some continue some issue to be addressed for a period of time? Yeah well the issue was stemming from our professional liability that we wrote out of the UK and a bit out of Europe.
And to make a long story short the issue was that the business performed less well than we had anticipated.
In fact it performed poorly.
As it relates to going forward as I suggested I think that we have done a reasonably rigorous examination of the portfolio and while I can’t guarantee everything I am very much inclined to believe that we have our arms around it and that we have taken the action that is required.
So is it possible that there could be some additional modest noise coming out over the next quarter or two? Yeah of course it’s possible.
But do I think that it would be anything to the extent that we saw in the fourth quarter? I would be both very disappointed and surprised.
That’s great.
Lastly on your own reinsurance book like you see significant decline because probably your pricing discipline is account for like about 10% in your overall business.
I just wonder like what are you seeing about the size of the book? And in the current marketplace does that put you at a disadvantage in terms of getting business or getting favorable terms and conditions.
No I don’t think that the size of the book at this stage in anyway marginalizes our ability to be effective in the marketplace.
I think the fact is that we have strong relationships with all the brokers.
We have strong relationships with the ceding companies.
And quite frankly I think the quality of ceding companies that we have long-term relationships with they both appreciate and respect our underwriting discipline and our relationships are alive and well.
So from our perspective we think the people that manage the reinsurance business are very capable they know what they’re doing and they’re doing just what we would want them to do.
That’s great.
Thanks so much for all the answers.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Brian Meredith of UBS.
Your line is now open.
Two extra questions; one of them back on the reinsurance book Rob I’m just curious clearly the cyclical pressure is going on right now in the reinsurance market from excess capital etc etc.
But do you believe this is a market that's got secular pressures as well because of the alternative capital and maybe the way that reinsurance buyers think about purchasing decisions now? I don’t - the world is changing.
Okay? The world is changing from every aspect and there is lots of capital searching for predictable returns.
And the returns will not be as predictable as those people think.
We’ve had a wonderful run of low cat activity and we’ve had some people who are quite - they are brilliant.
And I think that as long as that continues there’ll be lots of cat capacity.
In the meantime I think that it will continue with there being low cat activity and low interest rate because the marginal return you can get if you have a portfolio of fixed income securities the margin return from taking a flyer in the reinsurance business is pretty significant.
So if you have a $10 billion pension fund it’s probably something that we think that makes sense to take a flyer and you'd have $10 billion pension fund.
You expose $300 million you can get a marginal return of a consequential amount when you're used to getting only a 1% return.
Got you.
And I'm just curious where you able to take advantage of the increase in competitor reinsurance market at the one more [ph] endorsees and with your own programs and kind of what are your thoughts there are we at a point where the arbitrage is available in areas? Brian it's Rob.
As it relates to our own ceded activities of course we are cognizant of what’s going on in the reinsurance market and we try and make sure that we take that into account in our buying habits and ensure that we are managing the capital appropriately for the share holders.
So yes we have benefited from the current reinsurance market.
At the same time we have not - we’ve been conscious or not overreaching and turning our back on our long-term partners because we think that one needs to strike the balance between being opportunistic but also recognizing ones partnership with those that has gone back for many years and will hopefully continue on for many years.
Great.
And then just last question to Rob.
Are you seeing any increased appetite from the standard commercial markets maybe dipping down in the E&amp;S market at this point? It really quite frankly hasn’t become a huge issue so far based on what we have seen and you should know what we will see in the next call at 90 days or throughout 2015.
But the competition that we’re seeing from some of the standard markets to the extent that it's there and it's invisible it’s really more our regional companies that has seen it and certainly our monoline comp companies have seen the national carriers sort of reawaken in the comp space having stepped away over the past several years.
Great thanks.
Appreciate the answers.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Billingsley of Compass Point.
Your line is now open.
Good afternoon I just would like to follow-up on the reinsurance purchases for yourself.
It looks that the net - the gross appears relatively flat.
So you said you're not going to obviously to take advantage of your reinsurance partners but are you getting more coverage than maybe better terms and conditions for the same price? How…? I think the best way I could answer that because we generally speaking don’t make it a practice to get into the nooks and crannies of the coverage that we buy.
I think that from our perspective we believe that the average rate that we pay for reinsurance today is less than it was in the past.
So in other words the premium that we are ceding may look similar to you but as I think you were alluding to a moment ago I don’t think you should assume that the coverage is one and the same.
And then the last question I have is at the end of the year you guys pulled back on the stock buyback and I know you did pay a special dividend.
Was that one of the reasons was because you were paying the special dividend that you pulled back on the stock buybacks? And then the second part of that is how much more room do you have for existing repurchase authorizations this year? We have lots of authorization and I never comment on why we buyback or don’t buyback or whatever.
But we have lots of room on new authorization and it’s a constant judgment we make based on the price of the stock use of capital.
I mean one of the problems we face is we think we’re way over-capitalized but the rating agencies don't.
So if you look at the history of our companies we are more than generously capitalized because we don’t have the volatility of many of our competitors.
But rating agencies look at average capital employed and as everyone becomes more and more over-capitalized the standard goes up.
So we continue to search for opportunities and ways to return capital to our shareholders in an effective way that still meets all the guidelines the rating agencies require.
And we’ll continue to do that but to do the best job for our shareholders would not be to tell people how we do it or what we’re going to do.
And last question I have is regarding your service fee income I know you had mentioned that a large part of the increase was assigned risk plans and new business starts in new states.
So should we assume that service fee income will remain at these elevated levels going forward? Mr.
Ballard.
Yes in the near future yes.
I mean all these contracts typically have a life of a few years give or take around three years while there are some exceptions and those are constantly being put out to bid and rolling on or rolling off.
Okay very good thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen of Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
My questions are answered thank you.
Thank you Jay.
Thank you.
And our last question comes from the line of Ian Gutterman of Balyasny.
Your line is now open.
Hi thank you.
Gene first do you have the - can you tell us how much in dollars the average of that one was in international for the quarter? We haven’t disclosed that yet.
We’ll have that in our 10-K.
Okay.
Can you just take a ballpark around loss ratio points? Just trying to get a rough senses of how stanching it was… You got to wait.
Okay no problem.
And then Bill on the energy side I was looking through some of the disclosures.
I think your 10-K shows about $115 million in the energy funds.
As I go through your Schedule D there is one private equity firm where you have multiple investments that add up to pretty close to that $150 million… It is all one investment fund… Okay and it looks… With three tranches.
Okay and looks like that investment firm from what I see is based in Canada and a lot of their investments from what I understand are in Canadian oil sands.
Is that accurate and if so how comfortable are you with that given they seem to be sort of marginal capacity in the [indiscernible] you’re talking about trying to put them out of business.
First of all you made a lot of different statements in that comment.
I did.
And I haven’t yet talked to the - well the King of Saudi Arabia hasn't told me his plans.
Number two they’re not really in oil sands per se.
Their first fund where we met them was oil sands and that fund is almost fully paid out.
Got it.
And their subsequent funds was in the Gulf of Africa all over several of them being very low-cost oil.
But the fact is the oil prices is down 50%.
They are the most brilliant people in the world; the value of what they got has gone down a lot.
Okay got it.
And just from a - you mentioned obviously some pressure on Q1.
I assume these are reported with the 1Q lag and - some of your investments are public but for the privates how does - do you have a sense of how they mark those? I know a lot of time private equity markets tend to sort of lag… I can’t give you an answer to that.
Okay.
The answer is I don’t know.
We do our best to be sure it reflects the fair market value of the securities or that they… Okay fair enough I was just curious.
Thanks for the color.
Thank you.
I’m showing no further questions at this time.
All right thank you all very much.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference.
That does conclude today’s program.
You may all disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.
Good day and welcome to W.R.
Berkley Corporation’s First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
The speakers’ remarks may contain forward-looking statements.
Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words including without limitation believes expect or estimates.
We caution you that such forward-looking statements should not be regarded as a representation by us that the future plans estimates or expectations contemplated by us will in fact be achieved.
Please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31st 2014 and our other filings made with the SEC for description of the business environment in which we operate and the important factors that may materially affect our results.
W.R.
Berkley Corporation is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any such obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
William R.
Berkley.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much.
Well good afternoon.
Welcome to what seems like an extended winter.
It is the first quarter conference call however in spite of that.
So we're going to start by letting Rob talk a bit about our operations and then we'll go to Gene who will talk about the numbers then I'll try and talk about some general information and a little bit about where I think things are going and then take questions.
So Rob? Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Market conditions during the first quarter were generally speaking a continuation of the trends that we've seen over the past few quarters.
The insurance and reinsurance market continues to march to the beat of a very different drum.
The reinsurance marketplace remains notably competitive though the pace of deterioration at least for the moment seems to be slowing.
As we've all observed and discussed the challenges started in the property cat reinsurance market and have spread globally to most product lines within the reinsurance place -- marketplace.
On the other hand competition in the international insurance market continues to accelerate as many market participants are looking beyond their borders for growth.
Though not limited to Brazil Canada and Australia all standout as being exceptionally competitive.
Fortunately back here at home the domestic insurance market continues to offer good underwriting opportunities.
In particular the GL much of the professional and the worker's comp market continues to be more attractive as in many other parts of the international marketplace.
Having said this domestic property and cat exposed property as well as commercial auto remain quite challenging.
Turning to the company's performance the group had net written premium of approximately 1.57 billion for the quarter.
This is up over 3% compared with the corresponding period last year.
This result was in part achieved thanks to a strong renewal retention ratio which was approaching 80%.
Our domestic insurance led the growth coming in at an increase of 6%.
Of the six points of growth three plus was associated with rate.
Our international insurance segment was up slightly more than 2% however there are a fair number of moving pieces some stemming from FX which Gene will be discussing shortly.
And finally our reinsurance segment contracted 13% which is very much in line with our expectations given our view of the marketplace overall as I referenced a few moments ago as well as an earlier call.
The loss ratio for the quarter came in at 61.2.
Our domestic loss ratio was at 61.6.
This was negatively impacted by [cat] [ph] but also weather-related losses.
Cat – PCS definition which is what we use for our cat definition captures much of the weather-related losses but it does not capture slip and falls frozen pipes or other structural damage such as issues that rooftops have due to excessive weight from snow and ice for an extended period of time.
Our international and reinsurance segments both showed improvement in their loss ratio.
In particular I would draw your attention to the improvements in the international segment loss ratio particularly compared with Q4 2014.
The expense ratio also improved to a 32.7 this is an improvement of almost 1 point when compared with the same last year.
Both the domestic and international segments continued to show their improvements in their expense ratio and the reinsurance segment which was going the wrong way – or was deteriorating a bit in fact was a result of higher commissions.
If you look at internal expenses in fact it's improving.
All in the company achieved a combined ratio of a 93.9 in spite of the challenging winter.
It's worth mentioning this includes $12 million of net positive developments also worth mentioning this is the 33rd quarter in a row of net positive development.
Looking forward we think that when we look at the marketplace overall we think certainly the domestic casualty market is amongst the more attractive parts of the market to be.
And as a result of that we think our platform is particularly well positioned to take advantage of these market conditions given that approximately two thirds of our business is focused on the U.S.
casualty space.
Thanks Rob.
Gene do you want to take us through the numbers? Okay thank you Bill.
Well for the first quarter 2015 we reported net income of $118 million or $0.89 per share that compares with $170 million or $1.25 per share a year ago.
The decline in earnings was due to lower income from investment funds and from realized investment gains partially offset by modest improvement in the underwriting results.
I'll briefly summarize each of those areas.
As Rob said net premiums were up 3.2% to $1.57 billion and with the net up 6%.
The domestic segment had growth in all its major business lines.
The growth was led by professional liability which is especially strong due in part to a recently started company.
The international segment was up 14% in original currency terms however after adjustment for the strengthening of the dollar that converts to a growth rate of 2.5% in the U.S.
and U.S.
dollar terms and reinsurance segment premiums declined 13% as both the treaty and facultative markets continued to be very competitive.
Our overall underwriting profits were up 7% to $89 million.
Our current accident year loss ratio before cat losses was 61% unchanged from a year ago.
So although our price increases are continuing to be modestly higher than our estimated loss cost trends for now we're holding that loss ratio at the 61% level.
The paid loss ratio however continue to fall down to 51.4% in the quarter compared to 54% in all of 2014 and an average of 58% over the past five years.
As Rob mentioned cat losses were 14 million or one loss ratio of point that's the same as it was in the first quarter of 2014.
And the cat losses were primarily due to winter storms and almost all in the domestic segment.
Payroll reserve development was 12 million in the first quarter that compares with 25 million a year ago.
And again the majority of that positive development in the quarter was in the domestic segment.
Overall expense ratio declined by nine tenths of a percentage point to 32.7 with improvement of 1.3 points for the domestic segment 1.0 points for the international segment; that was partially offset by an increase in the expense ratio for the reinsurance segment as Rob mentioned as a result primarily of the sliding scale commissions on profitable reinsurance business.
That gives us an overall combined ratio of 93.9 for the quarter unchanged from a year ago with the domestic combined ratio improving by six tenths of a point to 92.8.
International improving by two points -- over two points to 97.0 and the reinsurance segment up half a point to 98.0.
Turning to investments despite the current bond market our core investment income was 118 million in the first quarter up 3 million from a year ago and the average annualized yield on the core portfolio was unchanged from 3.2%.
Investment funds reported an aggregate income of 6 million compared with a profit of 54 million a year ago.
2015 resulted included a previously announced loss of 22 million for energy funds.
The loss was more than offset by earnings of 28 million from other investment funds with especially strong results from the reinsurance – excuse me – from the real estate sector.
Realized investment gains were 19 million in the first quarter which is the 24th consecutive quarter that we reported a net realized investment gain.
A year ago we reported significant realized gains of 53 million which were primarily the result of the sale of one of our significant commercial property investments.
At March 31 2015 the average rating and duration of the fixed income portfolio were AA minus and 3.2 years both of those unchanged from the beginning of the year.
Aggregate unrealized investment gains before taxes were up 25 million to 495 million at March 31st and unrealized currency translation losses increased 48 million due to the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar against – primarily against the British pound and the Canadian and Australian dollars.
Interest expense was up 4 million due to the issuance of 350 million of subordinated debentures in August of 2014.
A portion of the proceeds from that offering were set aside to repay 200 million of senior notes that mature next month.
The effective income tax rate declined almost two points to 29.8% in the first quarter that's mainly the result of the lower investment fund income and the lower investment gains which are generally taxed at the full 35% tax rate.
We repurchased 1.8 million shares of our own stock in the quarter for an aggregate cost of $91 million.
All that gives us an ROE of 10.3% for the quarter and an increase in book value per share of $0.44 to 36 065 at March 31 2015.
Thank you Gene.
Well overall I think we had an excellent quarter.
Is it perfect? No.
There are some things we'd like different.
But I want to remind everybody we manage the business to optimize the economic output of our enterprise.
Does that mean we can't -- in this environment with low interest rates have quite the same predictable investment stream that we had in the past? So several years ago we shifted our investment portfolio which gives us a less smooth investment income.
That comes about in various ways.
You see it by our capital gains where we've tried to give people guidance to say sort of as a general rule.
I think in terms of $25 million a quarter or so.
But there are also a number of other things that cause our investment income to be lumpy.
So we own a building.
Well it’s a zero equity value at the moment because all of our cash is out and we're refurbishing a bit of it.
That's all on expense.
It cost us $3 million in reported earnings -- a little more than that for the quarter.
But in fact that hasn't been a diminution of the value of the building.
But for accounting purposes it is.
We have a number of things like that.
We don't by companies because starting them is a better economic process.
It doesn't show as well on earnings especially in the short run.
But in the long run it gives you a better cash return.
We run the business as we run it from an economic point of view as if we owned the whole thing.
We try and focus on how do we get the best economic return.
We're pretty optimistic that we have a number of things coming along that will catch up with that investment income return.
So we think the year will end up being quite a bit better than our 10.3% for the quarter.
Whether we can get the 15% or not hard to predict.
Timing is everything.
The operating results.
We're in the right place in the market.
But it still is more competitive than we had expected.
We still have opportunities to grow.
We see niches that appear and then disappear.
As long as we connect quickly we'll be able to seize those opportunities.
Our structure lets us do that.
But clearly at the moment things are not getting better.
They're not deteriorating a lot other than in the reinsurance business.
But most of the rest of the world things are all right to getting flat.
But we're not prepared to say things will to continue to get better as the year goes along.
We think things will continue will be all right.
And keep in mind that earned premium that was written in the prior 12 months is going to continue going in at improving rates.
So our reported results should be fine and improving for this year.
Where we go 12 months from now it's hard to predict.
But we don't see any dramatic decline in profitability.
In fact we think things will continue to improve.
With that I'd be happy to answer questions Amanda.
[Operator Instruction] Our first question comes from Ryan Tunis with Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Thanks guys.
My first question I think it's probably for Bill.
But in the press release highlighting I think in Domestic that you think you can modestly improve margins for the balance of the year.
I guess I'm just curious.
Do you see most of the improvement there coming from the expense ratio? Is there any more improvement left potentially on the loss ratio? With price it looks like still above 3%.
Just curious on that.
The answer is there are several things happening all at once.
It's like anything.
The complicated stories don't have simple answers.
First of all we think we'll continue to have a modest improvement in the expense ratio.
Second of all inflation clearly has not risen as we anticipated it would and as many people expected.
So our lost cost growth is less than we thought it was and there is no sign at the moment that that inflation which is just around the corner the corner keeps getting further away.
And finally we've been able to get price increases still in the neighborhood of 3% which is in fact a bigger spread than we anticipated over lost cost.
You put those things all together and that’s just simple mathematics.
It's improvement in margin and improvement in expense ratio.
Understood thanks.
My second one is more for Rob.
And it's drilling down a little bit into the International business clearly improved this quarter.
Wondering what's driving that relative to the fourth quarter.
Is that price? Is it mix? Were there lighter-than-planned maybe large loss activities? And also just curious on any update in terms of the provisioning you guys did in the fourth quarter on the European professional liability book.
Were there any incremental provisions put up there? Did you learn anything new from the experience we've seen in the last few months? Any help there? Appreciate it.
Thanks.
Okay.
Let me take those one at a time.
So basically to make a long story short.
Presumably as you'd expect the change between the first quarter and the fourth quarter – the loss activity quieted down dramatically.
And as we have suggested when we have the fourth quarter call while there are no guarantees we thought we had certainly looked under most stones and felt as though we were well on our way to getting our arms around it.
Obviously we continue to make sure that we have gotten our arms around it fully and it's possible that there could be a bit more noise coming through during the first quarter that we'll be talking about – rather in the second quarter when we have the discussion about that.
But again it was just reduced loss activity.
Sorry what was the second question? You were breaking up a bit.
Yes the second question -- I'm sorry -- was just was there any type of incremental provisioning from what you did in the fourth quarter? Did you learn anything new? It sounds like you do feel better about – I think the – the answer is as we suggested we feel as though we've identified the cornerstone issues and that we are getting our arms around it and we think we are well on our way to where we need to be.
Got it.
My last one is just on some of the energy investments and the extent to which you guys have visibility that some of those losses are behind us headed here into the second quarter.
We think there may be some investment losses still.
But it's not anything like the magnitude of the $22 million.
Probably at this point our best guess is $5 million from the energy funds losses.
But we're not 100% certain at the moment.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Gene do have the arbitrage number there? You might have said it but I was writing down too fast.
Do you have that number? Arbitrage number for the quarter was $9 million.
And so that was a pretty large one.
But generally speaking -- and I think I've asked this before -- and you said there is volatility.
It seems like in the net investment income line from fixed income returns it's a little bit more volatile than I would have thought.
Sometimes it's higher; sometimes it's lower.
What are you actively doing quarter to quarter that makes it that way? Or am I just perceiving something that's really more stable in your view? Well just to be clear in the release we just give the core portfolio so that is not just fixed income.
Yes that's true absolutely.
But I do note that if you go back historically and look through it it does seem like some quarters you have higher -- I guess I would expect quarter to quarter that the fixed income returns would be about the same quarter to quarter.
You can see in 3Q you had about $120 million; and 4Q at $108 million.
I guess this quarter we take out the $9 million it brings it to about $110 million.
Maybe I'm looking at that 3Q 2014 anomaly and just wondering if there's something clever you are doing on the fixed income side at this point? We're not that clever.
I don't think that's true.
Well we couldn't be that clever because you are not recommending our stocks.
That might be.
That might be me [indiscernible].
If we were really that clever you would be.
So the answer is there are constant -- you make swaps to pick up dividends.
You do all kinds of things.
There's no question in that quarter we were able to pick up some returns by doing a couple of things.
And that was a particularly good return -- but I think that -- if you look at our base level of return it continues and arbitrage does go up and down a little more than [indiscernible].
And along those lines do you have any thoughts on debt strategy here? I don't know if you have a long-term view on interest rates.
But would you be interested in doing any refi at this point? Well we just did some.
And we're going to next month pay off 200 million at that point.
As we always do we look at our balance sheet and look at what our opportunities are what we can do and try to figure out what opportunities may present themselves.
So we're -- it's something we look at all the time.
Good luck with that and congratulations on the quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Kai Pan with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Thank you and good evening.
First question on your reserve.
Could you talk a little bit detail about the $12 million reserve leasing in the Domestic segments and which line they're coming from? From which accident year? We don't do that on the conference call.
Okay.
You're welcome to give Gene a call and chat with him.
Okay.
Will do.
If you just look at the amount of reserve release compared with the year-ago period is that because it is quarterly volatility? Or you expect – If you want to talk about the specifics of reserve releases you really need to talk to Gene.
Okay.
Then switching gears to the current year loss ratio ex-cat you mentioned on the call 61%.
That's roughly flat year over year although the pricing like gains have been above your loss cost trend.
I just wonder is it more conservative reserving philosophy or something else there? Yeah.
We'll be cautious and see how the year folds out.
We tend to look at the first quarter cautiously and if we see it developing more favorably then we expect we’ll recognize it as time passes.
I think as I said in my comments I also was a little more pessimistic about a rising inflation that seems to have turned out.
So if that ends up being the case we may find that we’re more cautious than we needed to be.
Rob you want to add anything? Yeah I guess just following on that as we discussed in the past our view is that when we come up with our initial picks we are probably more likely than not going to err on the side of caution and certainly a component of that would be the assumption around inflation over the duration of that potential liability.
So the initial loss pick again there are no guarantees.
But our historic experience and our expectation will prove to be more on the side of caution than optimism.
Great.
And then the last question on the investment side.
Bill what is your thought about the first Fed rate hike and people expecting probably later this year? And how would you position the investment portfolio basically going forward? I think generally our view -- because we were originally anticipating more inflation and increasing rates by the end of the year.
I think we are less certain of that view at the moment and we're more cautious.
I think that where we look today is more like flat to vary slightly increasing rates and very very little increase in inflation.
So we are looking further out.
I think the balance which to us was inflation and slightly higher rates more likely by the end of the year is now probably even to slightly -- I would guess even would be the best thing.
And we don't see that happening.
We think that China is in fact slowing down.
We do think that they're really not gunning Europe.
Europe is not getting going at an accelerated pace and the U.S.
can't carry the world.
So you don't see just kind of major changes to the -- your current portfolio allocation? No.
I mean we're continuing to invest more of our liquidity.
We've got commitments to invest more in real estate and we'll probably sell some of the real estate that's been developed already.
But we're continuing to invest in that.
So if anything there'll be some increase in our real estate allocation.
But not really a consequential one.
If we invest $500 million or more in real estate that's just 2.5% of our portfolio.
Right.
Thank you so much for all the answers.
All right.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vincent DeAugustino with KBW.
Your line is now open.
Hi guys.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
To start on the worker's comp side looking at California.
Just relative to your assessment of loss cost trends there within your own book and then the relative stickiness of the foreign base savings.
I'm just curious in your opinion on the justification of the rating bureau's rate decrease in this -- how that compares to the experience of your book and whether you agree with that rationale.
I’m pausing not that I don't understand your question.
I understand it very well.
I'm trying to decide whether it's in the best interest of our shareholders for us to be talking about something of that nature.
I think the – here's the best way I can answer it without answering it.
I think that we feel as though that the California market provides again not across-the-board – I'm painting with a broad brush but generally speaking a reasonable opportunity to make a reasonable return.
What the rating bureau does out there I am not familiar with their data sets or their formulas or intimately familiar with her actuarial analysis.
But certainly our view is that the California market today is much healthier than it was a few years ago.
Having said that our view is that there’s certainly opportunity for it to become a bit healthier.
Okay.
Thanks for dancing around that issue.
I appreciate it.
And then the reality is it be common sense for us not to want to tell people our perception of an area that we compete in actively.
So we're trying to do the best we can without probably helping our competitors.
Appreciate the disclosure there.
And on that topic I guess no good deed goes undone.
So on the Supplemental Disclosure around Schedule P sticking with worker's comp if I look at that other bucket it looks like the paid-to-incurred trend at 12 months maturity for the initial pick there has ticked up a little bit relative to past years.
And on the IB&amp;R allocation side we see a little tick down that basically mirrors it.
And so I'm just curious if there's anything there specific that's driving its worth? Maybe some of the changes in inflation assumptions might be responsible? Anything above that nature you'll have to talk to Gene off the phone.
Got it.
Thanks and best of luck.
[Operator Instruction] Our next question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
The line is open.
A couple questions.
Jay I have a picture of that same volcano.
And I was there 1971 with my first Independent Director.
Hasn't changed much has it? It was erupting when I was there.
A couple questions for me.
The first is the accident year loss ratio not showing any improvement versus the year ago.
Is part of that some of this non-catastrophe weather? The burst pipes the roof damage? That wasn't a cat but clearly was somewhat onerous in the quarter? Yes.
That's a part of it.
You couldn't quantify that though Gene? It's probably close to the magnitude of the cats themselves.
Jay this is Rob.
I would think that a reasonable estimate to use would be – if you look at the cat number – multiply it by two and that’s going to give you a weather-related number-ish.
In the year ago quarter it would not have been as dramatic.
Is that fair? Right.
Correct.
I don’t know Gene is that right.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then secondly did you have -- no numbers -- but any adverse development in either Reinsurance or International? No.
Okay.
Great.
It’s favorable but very modest.
Got it.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you so much.
Most of mine were answered.
I had one question about FX.
How should we think about the impact in International for the rest of the year? Should we think about that 11- 12-point difference— I am sorry.
I had a comment in my quote about it.
And they all argued and nobody cared.
So thank you Michael.
I appreciate it.
All right.
Good.
The answer is I think that it will have no impact at all.
If anything since you've actually look at the end of the quarter to now it's gone the other way.
I mean that wouldn't be the first time that after ask a question to management team burst out laughing.
I'm laughing with you.
Good.
I'm glad.
Thank you.
Thanks for that.
And then one other one was in the US so growth there was about 5% 6%.
It's below 10% for the first time in a little bit.
Any thoughts on what happened there? Are you just seeing less attractive opportunities? Or was there maybe a one-timer that impacted that? Or how should we think about your pension for growth in the US at this point? Mike this is Rob.
I think there are a couple of drivers there.
But to get to the root of your question our expectation would be that the growth rate is going to sort of float between plus 5 and may be the low double digit if you will sort of 10% or 11% and that can ebb and flow depending on the quarter.
There was no sort of one-off if you will that reduced the growth rate.
Certainly a component of it is that the rate increases have slowed a bit compared to what they were over the past few years.
So that's a couple of hundred basis points of growth rate there.
In addition to that there are certainly some sectors that have been driving the growth over the past many quarters that are not enjoying the same opportunity energy being an example of that.
But overall I think to expect the business -- as far as the domestic insurance business -- to grow at a rate somewhere between 5% and 10% wouldn't be a bad assumption at this stage knowing what we know today.
Great.
Thank you very much for the answers.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ian Gutterman with Balyasny.
Your line is now open.
Hi thanks good evening.
Bill or Rob I was curious to get your views.
There's obviously been a lot of acquisitions going on in the industry right now.
And I know a lot of it is on the Reinsurance side but it does seem partially motivated by a desire to get into the Insurance space.
And I think there is maybe one or two insurers that are rumored to be up for sale.
How do you view that? First do you expect this to continue? That we're going to see a continued wave like the late 1990s; or are these one-off situations? And secondly is Berkley just an interested observer? Or could there be anything that at the right price and the right strategic merit that you might be interested in doing something on the acquisition front? We've managed this company in a way that we think is in the best interest of the shareholders; always always have always will.
For us that means if the right opportunity comes along we will seize it.
We think there's several things that are different now.
Number one we think a number of people deceive themselves by thinking scale of capital is an important competitive advantage.
We think quite to the contrary.
We think the world is full of capital and if you have skilled underwriting talent you'll be able to get all of the capital you want.
Therefore getting more capital as some people think is the object of putting two pieces together is a bad decision.
We think it doesn't help your shareholders.
In fact it ultimately dilutes their return.
So we should start by saying just acquiring something to get bigger to add to your capital count is certainly nothing that we would consider.
We always have the interests of finding ways to add expertise finding people finding something that gives us a competitive advantage.
And we are always in the market for that.
And if people want to talk to us we’re always willing to talk to them.
But it really has to do something that we think is terrific for our shareholders.
So I think consolidation will continue because there are a lot of people who found getting into the reinsurance business was easy and was an easy way to make money and it's going to be a lot tougher way of making money as people who have pools of capital that’s not theirs get together with expertise.
So I think consolidations will continue.
Smaller and intermediate size players will get acquired and there'll probably be opportunities and many things that have been done we've looked at we've talked about.
For some reason or another they haven't participated.
Do you see any new business opportunity as there is distractions from competitors who are involved in deals? That maybe there's the ability to get some underwriters from those shops that are uncertain about their future? Or just that brokers are hesitant to renew? Does that create a business opportunity? There are always opportunities.
We are a known quantity.
We understand how to organize and set up new ventures built around teams of people and a week doesn't go by that some team of people or another doesn't knock on our door and we talk to them.
But we have a view that they have to provide something that is worthwhile and the opportunity to generate the kinds of returns we think our shareholders need to achieve.
Got it.
And then just lastly you mentioned things are getting a little more competitive.
When we see deals that as you said are just accumulating capital they're not removing capital from the industry does that cause concern for you just as far as how the cycle plays out? I would have thought at this point the cycle free of excess capacity people would do deals to take capacity out of the industry but that's not really happening.
Well in some cases it is and in some cases it isn’t.
I think that -- at the moment -- and this changes all the time -- the hindrance for capital going out of the business is the fact that managements and Boards don't want to let go off their positions.
So capital can't move without their consent.
I think that some of these things will in fact take place and you will find some of these people effectively going out of the business.
So I think that's going to involve and that will happen at some point in time in the next 12 or 18 months.
Got it.
Thank you.
Very thoughtful answers.
Thanks.
Thank you.
I'm showing no further questions.
I would like to turn the call back to Mr.
William R.
Berkley for closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thank you all very much.
I know this is a time with lots of calls.
We appreciate you being on the call and thank you all very much.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
That does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day and welcome to the W.R.
Berkley Corporation's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
The speakers' remarks may contain forward-looking statements.
Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words including without limitation beliefs expects or estimates.
We caution you that such forward-looking statements should not be regarded as a representation by us that the future plans estimates or expectations contemplated by us will in fact be achieved.
Please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31st 2014 and our other filings made with the SEC for description of the business environment in which we operate and the important factors that may materially affect our results.
W.R.
Berkley Corporation is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any such obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
William R.
Berkley.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much.
Well it was an interesting quarter exciting in many ways challenging in many ways.
We're pleased with our results and why don't I start by turning this over to Rob.
Okay.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone.
The second quarter as suggested a moment ago has been a period of significant change for the industry but much of that change is stemmed from the level of M&amp;A activity that persisted through the quarter.
Having said that while it has given people something to talk about the reality is that the underlying market conditions have been reasonably consistent though in some cases perhaps incrementally more competitive.
Other markets that we participate in the domestic insurance market remains the bright spot workers' comps GL as well as select parts of the professional market remain particularly attractive.
Having said that unfortunately commercial auto aviation and marine remain challenging and more recently offshore energy has become notably competitive.
As it relates to the international insurance environment that we operate in it remains also quite competitive with the U.K.
and Europe standing out as particularly challenging.
And finally the global reinsurance market remains painfully competitive as well.
Having said that the pace of erosion seems to be slowing which is giving reason for perhaps guarded optimism that we are approaching the bottom.
Turning to the Company's performance during the period net written premium came in at $1.54 billion and it is up about 3.5% when compared with the corresponding period last year.
The domestic segment led the growth coming in up 7%.
The growth was primarily driven within the domestic segment by our workers' compensation activities as well as parts of our professional liability activities.
It's worth commenting that of the 7 points of growth just shy of 2 points were associated with rates and the renewal retention ratio remains at approaching 80%.
Partially offsetting this growth was the international segment which was down 11% Gene is going to be giving you a bit more detail on that as well as the reinsurance segment which was approximately flat.
With regard to the loss ratio it came in at 60.7 which is an improvement of approximately half-a-point.
And this was primarily driven by improvements in the reinsurance segment as well as a bit of improvement from the international segment.
It's also worth noting that our pay loss ratios came in at an attractive 63%.
With regard to the expense ratio this was a little bit of a bittersweet situation.
The expense ratio did tick up to 33.5.
We are pleased with the continued improvement in the domestic segment.
Having said that this was offset by some activities in the international segment as well as the reinsurance segment.
Gene is going to also be giving you some numbers on -- in this area.
Having said that a couple of quick comments from me.
First international goes as I've mentioned in the past we're going to need to on occasion take one step back in order to take two steps forward.
Some of the expenses spike that we saw in the second quarter in the international segment we believe is a short-term phenomenon which will spill over into the third quarter we would anticipate and may in fact affect the fourth quarter.
But by the time we get to next year we believe this will be behind us.
And as it relates to the reinsurance segment our internal costs actually are in a pretty good place and Gene's going to give you some color as to again what's driving that.
When you put it all together the Company achieved 94.2 for the quarter which included $23 million of net positive development.
This is the 34th quarter in a row of net positive development.
In spite of the challenges that exist in the international insurance market as well as the global reinsurance market we believe that the domestic market still has a meaningful amount of gas in the tank.
And quite frankly the level of M&amp;A activity is likely to create further opportunity.
For example as we've already announced a few new activities in the third quarter.
So all things being equal we are quite optimistic as to where the domestic business is.
We think things will over time be improving for the reinsurance segment and we think we're well on our way to making meaningful progress with our international business.
Thank you.
Thanks Rob.
Gene you want to pick it up? Okay.
Thanks Bill.
Well as Rob said for the second quarter we reported operating income of $105 million or $0.81 per share which is almost unchanged from $109 million or $0.82 per share a year ago.
The slight decline in earnings was a result of higher underwriting profits that were offset by a modest decline in investment income.
I'll go over the details -- some of those details starting with underwriting.
Again as Rob said net premiums written were up 3.5%.
That was led by the domestic segment which was up 7% with increases in all major business lines.
Our largest line workers' comp was up 15% and professional liability was up 29%.
In the international segment premiums declined 11% to $198 million.
Most of that decline was due to changes in foreign exchange rates.
In original currency terms international premiums were down 3% as growth in South America and Canada was offset by lower premiums in the U.K.
and Continental Europe.
And reinsurance premiums were essentially unchanged at $143 million as growth in the U.S.
was offset by lower premiums in Asia and Europe.
Our overall free tax underwriting profits were up 9% to $87 million.
The accident year loss ratio before catastrophe losses was at 60.5 up slightly from 60.1 in the second quarter of 2014 and below the accident year loss ratios for each of the immediately preceding three quarters.
Cat losses were relatively benign for the second quarter with only one cat event with a net loss greater than $5 million.
Overall our cat losses were $25 million or 1.6 loss ratio points in the quarter and that's down from $40 million or 2.8 loss ratio points a year ago.
We reported favorable reserve development of $22 million this year compared to $24 million a year ago.
Almost all of that favorable development was from the domestic segment but all three segments did have positive development.
That gives us a reported loss ratio after cats and reserve releases of 60.7 down a half-a-point from last year.
The overall expense ratio for the second quarter was 33.5 up 0.3 points from the second quarter.
The domestic segment improved -- the expense ratio improved by 0.8 points to 31.5.
That's right in line with our expectations.
On the other hand the reinsurance expense ratio increased 7 points.
However five of those points was due to what we call structured transaction which are transactions that have much higher profit commissions that's more than offset by lower loss ratios.
In fact the internal expenses for the reinsurance segment other than commissions was actually down 0.8 points from the second quarter of 2014.
The international expense ratio increased almost 3 points to 41.6 for two main reasons.
One is the decline of premium I mentioned.
And the other is slightly elevated costs in Europe that are related to the integration of our U.K.
companies as well as the setting of a new European platform and to some ongoing Solvency II costs.
We expect those costs to subside in early 2016.
That gives us an overall combined ratio of 94.2 down 0.2 points from the second quarter of 2014.
As Rob said the paid loss ratio was 53.0 down from 56 in the second quarter of 2014.
And our loss reserves increased $250 million from the beginning of the year to just over $10.6 billion.
Investment income was $128 million; that's down $11 million from a year ago.
The decline was primarily related to lower earnings from our merger arbitrage account which broke even in the quarter compared with income of $7 million in last year's second quarter.
Earnings from fixed income securities were down $2 million to $107 million.
And earnings from investment funds were unchanged at $22 million.
The overall portfolio yield was 3.2% compared to 3.6% in the second quarter of 2014.
In addition we had realized gains of $28 million in the quarter.
That's primarily from the sale of interest in investment funds.
And that compares with realized gains of $109 million in 2014 which include a large gain from the sale of a real estate investment in the U.K.
At June 30th 2015 our average rating and duration of fixed income portfolio were AA-minus and 3.3 years.
And our aggregate unrealized investment gains before taxes were $343 million.
The duration of the portfolio of 3.3 years is a full year less than the duration of our loss reserves.
Interest expense for the quarter was up $3 million.
That's due to interest on $350 million of debentures that we issued in the third quarter of last year which was partially offset by a reduction in interest from $252 million of senior notes that we repaid in May of this year.
The overall effective tax rate was 30.4% down from 31.5% in the second quarter of 2014.
The decline was mainly due to lower investment gains that are generally taxed at the full 35% tax rate.
In the first quarter of 2015 we repurchased 4.4 million shares of our stock at an aggregate cost of $218 million.
Our cash flow more than doubled to $272 million in the quarter due in part to lower tax payments.
And in summary for the quarter that gave us a pretax ROE of 15.5% an after-tax ROE of 10.7% and an ending book value per share of $36.76.
Thank you Gene.
So I thought I'd talk a little more about our strategies and some of the things that I think reflect upon our longer-term view and what we're looking at and then open it up for questions.
So first of all we think management of capital is really a cornerstone issue.
We bought a lot of stocks back.
We look at our book value in the sense of what we assess is our real book value.
So for instance as we mentioned in the footnote we have a $400 million gain that's not reflected on our balance sheet and held as equity.
That's a couple of dollars after tax per share not reflected.
There are a number of other assets that we think more judgmentally but are undervalued on our balance sheet from some of our real estate some of our other key investments.
So we think that our real book value is probably because of things like that not reflective of balance sheet stated book value because we follow accounting rules.
That's the way it is.
We're also optimistic that our business continues to generate an outstanding pretax return.
We are cursed with being a domestic insurance company.
So you might look at other people who report return on capital or return on equity of 12% 13% 14%.
It's non-tax return.
So we're this quarter-end from now on we're going to put in our pretax return so you can measure our results based on management's performance because we think that's what that shows.
We're going to have to over the long run find a way to deal with this issue.
Some of our competitors will actually have to find ways that don't suit us but there will be a way to find a solution.
We also think capital management reflects a different view that we have than many of our competitors where they think getting bigger and having more permanent capital is a good solution.
We think if anything capital markets are more opportunistic more flexible and there are things to do to have capital that's available to you.
And therefore maintaining ever-increasing permanent capital can be more like an anchor than a sail of the winds that helps you move ahead.
So we're trying to maintain our level of capital being sure we have enough always so we're not rushing to shrink our capital base but not build capital when we don't need it when we can find other places to get it if we want it for short or long duration and leverage the returns that we can deliver to our common shareholders.
We're really optimistic about where we see the business going.
In the short term there may be a bump or two.
The global economy has never been as uncertain in my recollection.
Not that there's a huge crisis here but there's lots of uncertainty.
The spread between the duration of our bond portfolio and the duration of our liabilities is as great as it's ever been being a year because we're worried about inflation.
We don't know what's around the corner but we know it's out there given economic activities and economic policies.
We have the same view of our loss reserves.
You have to at least recognize what can happen.
So while we're aggressive in seeking out opportunities fining great teams of people we're being willing to jump into something where we see an opportunity.
We're cautious when we look at what can go wrong in the insurance business.
We want great returns but we don't want to take them at any price.
We continue to feel that we'll be able to deliver on that high 15% plus after-tax return over the long run while it may be bumpier in the short run to get there.
Okay.
We're happy to take any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Kai Pan of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon.
Thank you.
Bill the first question.
You gave a lot sort of detail your thoughts about capital.
Two issues there.
One is for the tax issue you've been a vocal critic of offshore tax treatments and is the indication that you just think the law will not change and you have to find a way to reduce the tax rate for W.R.
Berkley shareholders? Well I think that you know return on capital serves two purposes.
One it tells you what your shareholders are getting to keep but it also is a measure that people have developed to use to tell how well a company is managed.
So I thought it was important.
And we discussed it here at great length that we put the number up there so you can look at us compared to so many companies who pay no tax.
So when you look at us you don't say hey they earned 10.5% return on equity and this other company earned 13% 14% 15%.
You have -- to measure management you have to look at it in a consistent way.
So we're putting the number up there first of all so you can measure how we do compared to everyone else.
I don't think they're going to pretend they pay taxes so we have to pretend we don't.
Number two I think that ultimately the system of taxation in our country only can work when business done in the United States pays tax on a universal basis.
Otherwise everyone will find ways to do business here and move their incomes offshore.
That is not how it works in the insurance business at the present time.
So that being said I think there will be someone something done to address the tax issues.
But I have been an optimist for five years and I have been wrong actually for more than five years probably seven years.
But the fact is I've been wrong.
And we're constantly looking at alternatives and how and what and how the world works.
And I'm an optimist.
I always think I will find a solution or the government will find the solution that makes the country work better.
So no I don't have an answer but I'm working on it.
Okay.
Then on your second point on the capital optimization it looks like you're probably pursuing a more capital-light business model because capital available in the marketplace on demand that you don't need maintain a big buffer in terms of your capped balance sheet.
Does it mean that you'll be very active in buying back your own shares that you probably will not grow your shareholders' equity unless there's business need? I think what it means is just as now for a couple of years we've tried to maintain our capital levels at roughly the same level because external capital is available at very low costs much lower costs than our average cost of capital.
So we're not going to reduce our capital but we also don't see that we're going to be able to grow our business a huge amount.
So if we can grow our business 5% or 7% there's external capital that we can find ways of obtaining for that amount of growth.
If we can start to grow our business more we're going to grow our internal capital more or get more permanently provided external capital.
We have many people who talk to us about being our partners and doing things all the time.
Okay.
Lastly on industry consolidation.
Bill you've been running the Company for almost five decades you have seen this play out before.
What do you think about the current wave of consolidation? What do you think it will do for the industry and particularly what it will do to W.R.
Berkley? Do you think yourself more as buyer or seller? First of all on October 31<sup>st</sup> I will step down as Chief Executive and Rob is going to take over.
So it will be not five decades but I'll be out of this box at that point and he'll take care of it then I'll be Chairman.
And then I get to harass everybody else.
But the fact is no I think consolidation serves purpose.
In the case of our business regulators and regulatory pressures makes it important not to stay small.
We're big enough that we can deal with it.
We've always had the same view.
We're here to do what's right for our shareholders.
We'll always do what's right for our shareholders.
But that being said we can continue to generate great returns over the long run for our shareholders and if somebody comes up and says "Hey we'd like to talk to you about something " we're always willing to talk.
If it's good for our shareholders it's good for us.
In the meantime we're big enough that we think there's not much that we can't do.
And if we can't do it ourselves we have lots as I said lots of people who come to us with billions of dollars of capital and offer to be our partners to do some other things.
So I think that the consolidation that's happening now is frequently about management ego or management rewards and less amount -- less than it is about what you need to run your business.
Now there are exceptions because to be a global company and to do the business globally it will certainly have value but that's a small part dollars of the marketplace.
So there are a few companies that need to be global to serve customers.
Our global ambitions have to do with doing business with great customers wherever they're located.
Thank you very much for sharing the thoughts.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Amit Kumar of Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Thanks and good afternoon.
Two quick follow-up questions I guess to the previous discussion.
First of all just going back on the discussion on capital management.
In the past we've talked about a special dividend too.
Is that still on the table down the road or is that off the table? You know Amit I've talked to you for many years and I've always said exactly the same thing.
My view about our Company is simple.
We do what we think is best for our shareholders no matter what.
If someone comes in at a high price and wants to buy the Company we'll talk to them.
If something we think is the most attractive for our shareholders to buy back stocks we'll buy back stocks.
If we think we have more capital than we need and there are alternatives to it we'll pay a special dividend.
We've paid a special dividend a couple of times we've bought back stock opportunistically.
And each period of time on a consistent curve we look at our capital account we look at what alternatives we have we look at what we see in the future to be and we try to make those decisions.
But the only benefit we have with our size is we can be nimble.
All the decision-makers fit in one room and we talk in trying to figure out the right thing to do.
So nothing is ever off the table.
We do what we think is best for our shareholders at any point in time.
Got it.
And -- -- is not off the table.
Got it.
And maybe this might be for Gene.
Were all the buybacks worked in the open market or was a piece of it under a 10b51? All open market.
Got it.
Okay.
That's all I have for now.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Hello Michael Nannizzi.
Hello sir.
I had a couple of questions if I could.
One is just on the temporary capital point.
What might I mean what might a structure look like you know that you kind of alluded to? And yeah are there any that you have kind of that you're putting together on a small scale today that you know that might come to fruition or is there you know like where are we in this process of W.R.
Berkley and being able to leverage external capital? Is it like a first thing in conversation or? Michael you have the most advanced firm in structuring alternative capital in the insurance business.
When I was in the annuity business your firm structured alternative capital for me.
So -- Yeah.
But those are the smart guys on the other side of the wall they don't talk to us.
The answer is that there are people out there who come and talk to us all the time about wanting to find ways to put capital at risk in the insurance business.
And we talk about various alternatives and things we consider.
We don't have a plan now.
But between their discussions with Rob and Gene and me we're very confident if we wanted to do anyone of a number of things we could easily do it.
And we haven't chosen a plan but we're pretty comfortable being financially versatile that we can come up with something no matter what the option was that could help us get by without raising new common stock which really was our historic view was you raise common stock you raise preferred you raise debt that was -- that's sort of what it was.
And I don't think that's the alternative mix that is what a company in 2015 needs to look at in our business.
I think there are a lot of other alternatives.
And we see many of them in the marketplace now.
And there are also variants that aren't in the marketplace but offer attractive options.
Okay.
So I mean I guess the question is like is this something that you expect I mean that you're -- you think you could put together in the next year two years five years or is it you know like if we didn't look over time you know there's the ability for Berkley to either leverage external capital to grow or utilize external capital and sort of shrink its own capital base? We think we can always find capital which we will do on an opportunistic basis when we see reason or need.
And we're not -- if I was talking about three five seven years I wouldn't be talking about it.
This is something we see in the next year or two or three where we think there'll be an opportunity to do something.
Do we have it now? It's not two or three months from now.
But it is within a timeframe we think that one can see.
But tell me what pricing is going to do tell me how opportunities are going to arise.
We think they're there.
Yeah.
So I mean so that -- so you would be comfortable moving in that capacity towards at least part of your business more of a fee-based model if that were to present itself in a way that was somewhat sustainable or -- Those are your words not mine.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks.
And then on the tax rate I mean if you know if nothing comes to fruition from the government side I mean you know would reallocating your portfolio back towards munis I mean is that something you would consider doing to reduce the tax rate or? Yeah.
But you can also -- the answer is yes.
We could shift back towards the muni market.
But we're you know the muni market is a much better longer-term market longer-duration market than a shorter-term duration market.
So you don't get the real benefits in the shorter term.
So you need some changes in the investment marketplace for us to do that as well as higher yields for us to be willing to go out 10 12 15 years.
Okay got it.
So that strategy is maybe on the investment side maybe other strategies but with the goal to try and reduce the tax rate at some point if government rules don't change -- Yeah although there are lots of things that are in the offer now because the government is taking note of more and more U.S.
companies going overseas.
Got it.
And then just last question if I could maybe in the domestic business the expense ratio you know Gene you mentioned it came down year over year higher than we had and I think we kind of talked over the last few quarterly calls that the expense ratio should continue to come down to reflect the growth that you guys have had over the last couple of years.
Are we at a point now where this is kind of where you expect the expense ratio to be or is there still leverage on the expense side as you continue to earn through that growth? Mike there's still leverage there and we expect it to continue to improve.
You know when you look at it quarter to quarter some of it's sort of volume-dependent with the new DAC [ph] rules when your volume drop should take a little bit more of a hit on your expense ratios than you're used to but -- so it's hard to look at quarter by quarter.
But we definitely expect it to continue to improve.
Got it.
Great.
Thank you.
Yes sir.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Josh Shanker of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Good evening everyone.
Good evening.
I'm going to continue along the same line of questions and I don't -- I hope you'll bear with me.
In terms of the current view of hey you're going to report both a pretax and an after-tax ROE an you're reiterating your long-term goals of 15% ROE or better is that the optimism talking you believe that the taxation situation will change in a way that allows you to do that or do you expect to be able to hit that 15% ROE over the long run without any improvements in the tax situation? I do.
You do.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
And in terms of thinking about you know Rob talked about the two steps forward one step back for international work.
Can you talk about a little bit of how you're looking at the situation from this quarter and this is a one-quarter issue? What should we expect going forward? Josh it's Rob.
So on the international front first off there are some expenses as Gene referenced associated with Solvency II which we will be working our way through as we make our way to the end of the year.
We would expect those expenses will begin to diminish at a material rate as we make our way to 2016.
And then we have some other plans as it relates to some reorganizations that we're doing within the segments some of which was accomplished in the second quarter some of it will occur in the third quarter and we would expect that that component will be quieting down in the fourth quarter.
So I think the way that people should be looking at it is that the third quarter you may see it tick up a little bit more from where it is now the fourth quarter you should see somewhat of an improvement we would hope from the third quarter.
And by the time we're in 2016 we should be certainly in around our way to a materially better place.
Perfect.
Perfect.
And in terms of thinking about the opportunity set of hiring new talent how does the international market look compared to the domestic market? I think the answer is that we see opportunity on both fronts.
Obviously we look at each opportunity individually and it needs to stand on its own two feet.
Is that true anything about the greenfield business that you guys are willing to develop yourself I mean the opportunity exists for you to create a new idea for a business maybe internationally whereas the U.S.
market is somewhat more developed? Do you see an opportunity there or would you -- are you more interested in proven track record internationally that's already underway? Josh I guess again it depends on how you define a greenfield.
But if you look at most of our activities most of the business that we've started it's been a situation where we have an individual or a team of people that come together that have a significant amount of expertise that they've developed over the years within a particular niche.
And we don't expect that we would deviate from that approach.
Okay.
Thank you.
Good luck.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ray [ph] Tunis of Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good evening.
Thanks.
I guess my first question is just on the expense ratio I guess bigger picture in international.
It's been elevated for some time and it looks like premium growth is slowing somewhat.
Just curious how much longer-term improvement there is contingent on revenue growth relative to managing down costs.
I'll just make a comment.
It's definitely a combination of both.
I mean there's a number of initiatives underway that we know are going to improve things from the expense side.
Bob could comment more on the premium side.
But I think it's going to take a combination of both to get it where we'd like it to be.
So as Gene suggested it's going to be a combination of both.
Certainly top line and earned premium levels have an impact.
Certainly currency to a certain extent has an impact as well in some cases.
But fundamentally much of the action that Gene was alluding to earlier that I touched on as well has to do with quite frankly just trying to find ways to make the business better to make it more productive to make it more efficient.
And we think that we are getting some traction in doing so really not because of what we're doing here at the holding company as much as really a lot of the good things that our colleagues that run these businesses are doing.
So long story short would more earned premium in a vacuum be helpful? Absolutely.
But I think the way we are going to get to a better place is because of some of these deliberate activities that we referenced earlier.
Thanks.
That's helpful.
I think the bottom line is we would expect that expense ratio is going to come down.
And putting aside currency issues we will -- we expect to have somewhat improvement in the volume.
So I think that while in the short run i.e.
a quarter you may not see much dramatic improvement I think if you look at these numbers a year from now it would be substantially better.
Okay.
And I guess just on the consolidation line.
Curious if you could maybe opine a little bit on how the consolidation might potentially give you guys some near-term advantages if we should be thinking about this as something that over the next year or two could actually create revenue opportunities.
Why don't I let Rob talk about some of the opportunities he sees and how from an operating point of view and then I'll also talk about it from a broader perspective -- So just to make sure we're clear we're talking about the consolidation that we see going on in the marketplace correct? Correct correct.
I think that it creates opportunity on multiple levels.
I think the fact of the matter is that whenever you have this type of activity going on it creates a distraction within organizations that are directly involved in the activity because they are somewhat inwardly focused on what they are trying to do and when they are distracted in such a manner it makes it more challenging to remain focused on the distribution system as well as ultimately the insured or whoever the customer may be.
In addition to that our experience is that oftentimes back to the point around distribution that when there are large mergers it creates a question within the minds of some of the distribution how many eggs they want to have in one basket.
And then finally you have the other component which oftentimes also can create opportunities for us or any other market participant where there are talented people that for whatever the reason may be become disenchanted with their future and are looking for another alternative.
Okay.
And then I had one more I guess new one just on NII.
What was the impact this quarter from the energy portfolio and is there any visibility on what you think the impact might be next quarter? For the energy investments yeah.
They're profitable this quarter and we expect them to be profitable next quarter.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Cohen of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Yeah on the tax rate issue Bill.
At some point would you be willing to essentially re-domicile offshore whether it's on your own or through some sort of M&amp;A? The answer is we're always willing to do what we think is in the best interest of our shareholders.
We think we have some level of obligation to this country.
We just think at the moment the way the taxes are we won't be able to compete in the long run when we're paying taxes at 30-plus percent and we have many competitors who are paying very low tax rates.
And they do it forget about what they show on their statements they do it in many ways through loss portfolio transfers because then they don't pay tax on the discounted value of their reserves through all kinds of vehicles some of which they feel are justified and some of which they don't.
But the bottom line is how much cash taxes do you pay? And it's a competitive disadvantage that in the long run you can't continue with.
We look at it all the time.
We've worked on Congress.
I have no idea how come it has been so difficult to persuade Congress and I have no idea how some insurance commissioners think for some reason or another it's a good thing for people not to pay taxes in the country.
But Jay we work at it every day we make that decision and we look at it all the time and at some point we'll have to come to the conclusion we can't continue in the current posture.
But each time they do something to make the differential less it makes it less certain.
But we would look at every alternative and we do every day and we talk to people about it.
Got it.
And then maybe a question for Gene.
It looks like your debt to capital is a little over 32%.
Would that act as any sort of constraint when you think about buybacks at this point? No I don't think so.
I mean the fact is our -- you have to remember first of all we have $400 million of statutory capital because we carry health equity at fair market value.
So our statutory capital and our GAAP capital aren't the same so we've had an increase in the statutory capital that you don't see of $400 million from just health equity.
So there are -- and there are other things that we've had increases in statutory capital because there it's not the GAAP numbers so statutory capital has gone up whereas GAAP capital has not.
And we haven't gone -- we haven't bought more stock than our net earnings have.
So if you look at our aggregate earnings the amount of stock we bought basically matches our earnings.
So we don't think it's a problem.
And Bill going forward is that a reasonable assumption for us to use that your buybacks and dividends would be roughly equal to your earnings? I think that in -- over any period of time that'd be a general thing.
Gene needs to make a comment about the -- he pulled up the numbers on these partnership things.
I misspoke on the energy funds.
I got a quarter ahead of myself with the one quarter lag.
But they actually in the quarter we just reported they had a small loss.
But we don't expect that to go forward.
So I just want to correct that.
But at this point just -- I think they don't have a lot of our attention because the velocity of change now is much less.
Okay Jay? Yeah.
No thanks for the answers.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ian Gutterman of Balyasny Asset Management.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thank you.
Bill I was hoping first if you could talk a little bit about your outlook in the Latin America part of your international business.
You know forgetting about the currency for a moment right but just you know it seems like those economies are getting a little tougher.
Does that impact your ability to grow or are the lines you're participating not seeing pressure from the economies there? I think in the broadest sense Latin America is a growing marketplace.
It has more volatility as every developing market does.
We have been successful in Argentina because we have great managers in Argentina and they've done a great job.
And we have the same in Brazil.
And we're expanding in Colombia now.
The cornerstone of this business is great managers and great people.
And we think that we've been able to get those kinds of people to work for us.
Now that said it's a lot bumpier ride at the moment than it was 18 months ago.
Okay.
But I think that we're pretty happy with our participation.
And if anything we'd like to use that opportunity of uncertainty for us to expand further.
Got it great.
And then just on the taxes just -- I mean the one advantage I think you'd agree I mean one advantage of being in the U.S.
is access to business and the offshore companies think they can't get at the you know great specialties you have because they don't have that -- that kind of business doesn't make it offshore right? So -- No.
The way they do it is they set up domestic subsidiaries.
Right right.
But then they quota share part of it they can't get 100% -- No.
But they -- -- offshore.
First of all they can do loss portfolio transfer so they move their reserves offshore so they don't pay discount on the loss reserves.
And then they quota share a large percentage of what's left.
So they bring their tax rate down from 35% or 39% down to less than 10%.
So when you can do that it's a pretty big competitive advantage.
No understood.
I guess what I was getting at is sort of the opposite side is would any potential you know solution to improve your tax rate in any way affect your ability to control the type of business you want to control right? You know what I mean? The companies offshore even though some of them bought U.S.
businesses haven't seem to have the success accessing business in the same way because they seem to be perceived differently by being offshore.
I don't think it's the perception of being offshore.
I think they have -- Okay.
-- have great people but I think that some of them have great people and do really well and others don't.
But I think being here doing this now for almost 50 years we have a competitive advantage because we have people who are old and gray and been doing it for a while and most of the others are young and spry.
We're hopefully replacing the old and gray people with the young and spry people and we'll have a combination that'll be okay.
All right fair enough.
Thanks Bill.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Mark Dwelle of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Yeah good evening.
Just one quick question.
Back at the top of the discussion I think Rob had mentioned weakening in the commercial auto line.
I was wondering if you could just expand on that.
I guess I had been under the impression that that was a line of business that relative to many was actually holding up somewhat better.
Yeah.
Maybe I miscommunicated but from our perspective commercial auto is very challenged while it would seem by and large there's opportunity for additional rate I still think the economic result that will deliver is not particularly rewarding at this stage.
So while it may not be rapidly deteriorating or deteriorating at all from a rate perspective I think even with the rate increases that many in the industry are getting it's not where it needs to be.
I see.
So the comment was directed more towards the relative profitability weakening rather than -- Yeah.
That is correct.
I'm sorry if I misspoke.
No worries.
That was the only clarification.
Thanks very much.
Yup.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Howard Lineker [ph] of Lineker &amp; Co.
[ph].
Your line is open.
It's Linker [ph].
Hello everybody.
Hi.
I'll take your side on the question of capital.
You're writing at about 0.91 to 1 if you include total capital.
And if you want to include equity it's 1.3.
You could write as much business as you want.
You don't need capital.
And as you have learned since went into business you learned two things.
One the best form of capital is retained earnings.
And second when you were very -- when your business is very young you saw what happened to insurance companies like St.
Paul and GEICO and SEICO [ph] when they used too much leverage.
The bill comes at a wrong time and it's a large bill.
So I'm on your side on this one.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
That's it.
Thank you.
And at this time I'm showing no further questions.
I would like to turn the call back over to William R.
Berkley for closing remarks.
Well thank you all very much.
We are optimistic that this is a time that'll give us great opportunities in many fronts.
The ability to be nimble and select the opportunities that reward our shareholders best something we've always prided ourselves on.
You can only be sure of one thing we will always do what we think is right for our shareholders and you can count on that in this Company no matter what.
Have a great.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may all disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the W.
R.
Berkley Corporation’s Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
The speakers' remarks may contain forward-looking statements.
Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words including without limitation believes expects or estimates.
We caution you that such forward-looking statements should not be regarded as a representation by us that the future plans estimates or expectations contemplated by us will in fact be achieved.
Please refer to our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 and our other filings made with the SEC for a description of the business environment in which we operate and the important factors that may materially affect our results.
W.
R.
Berkley Corporation is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any such obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
William R.
Berkley.
Please go ahead sir.
Good afternoon.
We’re pleased with our quarter and we’re looking forward to an excellent year.
I think that I’d like to start with Rob our very soon to be Chief Executive and he’s going to talk about our operations.
Okay thank you very much and good afternoon everyone.
Market conditions during the third quarter were by and large a continuation of what we have seen in the second quarter.
Yes competition is modestly on the rise but truly is at its incremental rate.
And in spite of some of the recent headlines that we heard about cat or cat-like events occurring and affecting the industry the impact has really been quite modest and one that that’s hard-pressed to find any type of catalyst out on the horizon that is going to shift the direction or I should say the overall market climate.
As far as the domestic insurance market goes as we’ve said over the past couple of quarters workers’ compensation general liability and many of the professional lines remain very attractive and we think are sensible places to be deploying additional capital.
On the other hand aviation much of the marine market cat-exposed property as well as offshore energy are product lines that we are increasingly concerned about and do not see a lot of rational behavior in those parts of the market.
Another large product line that we have been talking to about or I’d say at this stage probably goes back to 2013 or so maybe even earlier is commercial auto particularly long-haul truck.
We have had our reservations about this product line for a very very long time it feels like at least at this stage and the lack of rational behavior that existed in the marketplace.
While we have not come out of the woods as an industry when it comes to this product line I think the fact is that it is beginning to get the attention that is required and we’re beginning to scratch the surface as far as the needed action that one needs to take in order to get this line to return to meaningful profitability.
Moving onto the international market it is a bit more competitive; no different than it’s been in the past few quarters.
One of the things that we’ve seen over the past few years has been many organizations have been looking to increase their footprints in some of the international markets that we have been operating in have become more and more crowded.
This is not unique; we’ve seen this happen in the past and what tends to happen is that it ebbs and flows folks develop an appetite to expand their footprint and over time they realize that it is not so easy to get the critical mass that they need in order to make their economic model work.
They began to revisit their business plan and in many cases ultimately retreat.
And our sense is of course frankly that we may be over the next couple of years approaching a point of inflection with some of the international markets.
In addition to that we’ll be getting on to a couple of comments regarding the reinsurance business shortly but we all know how competitive it’s been.
And the international insurance markets tend to be a bit more dependent on the reinsurance markets and that is due to the fact that much of the international market uses much larger limits on a day to day basis than we typically see in the middle and small commercial market in this country.
So consequently cheap reinsurance has perhaps empowered less responsible behavior.
And to that point both domestically and internationally we have seen increasing correlation between areas of the industries that are under the greatest pressure and those that are most dependent on reinsurance.
On the topic of reinsurance certainly again a topic we’ve discussed with you all in the past the marketplace remains exceptionally competitive.
Having said that it would seem as though the pace of competition seems to be not moving or increasing as quickly as it has over the past several quarters.
I don’t think that we’ve necessarily touched bottom but it would seem as though we continue to get closer as again the pace of erosion is slowing.
When we look at the reinsurance market quite frankly we are convinced that it is unlikely that the market tomorrow will look like it did yesterday.
At the same time we’re hopeful that it will not look like what it appears to be today.
And having said that we do believe that capacity is becoming more and more commodity with every passing day and ultimately it boils down to the expertise that you can bring from a value perspective to your clients and focusing on clients that actually do value expertise and don’t just [view it as a] [ph] commodity.
Turning to our quarter and I’ve promised Gene I would keep this on a very high level and I wouldn’t steal his thunder but I do want to tuck in a couple of quick comments here.
Top line came in at $1.57 billion.
This is up about 3%.
The growth was led by our domestic insurance business which was up about 6%.
Of that 6 points of growth roughly 1 point of it was associated with rate.
The top line growth was somewhat offset by our international as well as our reinsurance segments which were both off and that was primarily driven by FX.
And I will leave the rest of that for Gene to touch on.
As far as the loss ratio goes coming at 60.5% by and large in line with our expectations.
The reinsurance and the international segments both had good quarters or certainly improving quarters when compared with the corresponding period last year and the domestic business moved slightly in the wrong direction and that was primarily driven by non-cat related property losses.
Moving onto the expense ratio which is certainly something that we have discussed several times in the past first off the 33.2% was by and large in line with our expectations.
We continue to be pleased with the progress that we make on the domestic front.
The reinsurance segment the internals are flat; the rise that you see in the quarter is due to commissions and related and Gene I guess you will going into some of that in some more detail.
And then finally on the international front the tick up I think is in keeping with what we suggested you would see when we had a discussion about 90 days ago with some one-time expenses associated with some of our operations in the UK.
So when you put it all together the company achieved 93.7% which by and large is right in line with our expectations.
We think that the performance of the business is reasonably good at this stage.
Having said that we think some of the obstacles that we have been wrestling with to date we’re getting those behind us and we’re optimistic as to how we’re positioned going forward for the fourth quarter but particularly 2016.
Thank you.
Thanks Rob.
Gene you want to take us through the numbers? Okay.
Thank you.
For the quarter we’ve reported operating income of $118 million or $0.91 per share.
That’s up from $0.80 and $0.81 that we reported in the first and second quarters of this year but below the $1.06 that we reported in the third quarter of 2014 which included significantly higher than average earnings from investment funds.
For the quarter our net premiums increased $46 million or 3% from a year ago to almost $1.6 billion.
Domestic premiums grew by 6% to $1.25 billion.
That was led by 11% growth in workers’ compensation business and 8% for other liability business.
International premiums declined 5% to $164 million due to the strengthening of the US dollar against the pound the Canadian and Australian dollar and the Brazilian real in our case.
In local currency terms international premiums actually grew 7% and that was led by growth in Canada Germany and South America.
Reinsurance premiums declined 7% to $171 million due to the continuing soft market conditions in both the US and overseas.
Without the impact of FX changes they would have declined as well but by 5% instead of 7%.
Our overall pre-tax underwriting profits were up 2% in the quarter to $96 million.
The third quarter accident year loss ratio before cats was 61% that's unchanged from a year ago.
In fact if you look back for each of the past seven quarters our accident year loss ratio has been between 60% and 61% throughout that period as pricing and loss cost trend have generally offset one another.
Our cat losses were relatively light again this quarter at $6 million or 0.4 loss ratio points.
That's down from $15 million in the third quarter of 2014.
And on a year-to-date basis our cat losses were $46 million or one loss ratio point.
We reported favorable reserve development of $15 million in the quarter with modest favorable development in all three business segments.
That $15 million is in line with our year-to-date favorable development which is $49 million.
That gives us the calendar year loss ratio after cats and reserve releases of $60.5 million slightly below the $60.7 million a year ago.
Our overall expense ratio for the third quarter was 33.2% that's down 0.6 of a point from the third quarter of 2014.
The domestic expense ratio declined to 30.8% 0.3 of a point below the third quarter of last year and almost a full point below the full year 2014.
On the other hand the international expense ratio increased 2.5 points to 43.4%.
The increase was due to both the decline in premium volume as well as continuing cost relating to solvency II and the integration of our UK company with our Lloyd's syndicate and we do we expect those costs to decline beginning in the fourth quarter of this year.
Reinsurance expense ratio increased by five points to 39.0%.
The increase is attributable to the structured treaties that incepted earlier in the year.
I mentioned those in the second quarter call these treaties have higher than average commissions including profit commissions that are more than offset by lower loss ratios.
And if you look at the expense ratio the non-commission portion of the reinsurance expense ratio it was unchanged from a year ago at roughly 10 percentage points.
That gives us an underwriting profit of $96 million for the quarter and a GAAP combined ratio of 93.7%.
Turning to investment income our investment income was $133 million this quarter compared with $179 million in the third quarter of 2014.
Earnings from our core portfolio including arbitrage trading declined 8% to $110 million due primarily to lower reinvestment rates available for maturing bonds.
The average bond yield for the first nine months of 2015 was 3.3 down 0.2 from 3.5 in 2014.
Income from investment funds were $23 million in the quarter which is an annualized return of 8%.
That compares with $59 million in investment fund income a year ago to well above averages that quarter from our aviation and real estate funds.
Realized investment gains were $54 million in the quarter and were primarily due to the sale of a portion of our investment in HealthEquity.
At September 30 2015 the average credit rating for the fixed income securities portfolio was AA minus and the average duration was 3.2 years which is a full year shorter than the duration of our loss reserves.
Aggregate unrealized after-tax investment gains were $227 million at September 30 2015.
Our overall effective tax rate for the quarter increased by one point from a year ago to 33.3% and that's due to higher taxes in certain US states as well as a couple of non-US jurisdictions.
Cash flow from operations was $620 million for the first nine months of 2015 compared with $646 million in 2014.
And in the first nine months we purchased 4.5 million shares of our stock for an aggregate cost of $224 million.
All in that gets us to net income of $153 million and after-tax ROE of 13.3% and an ending book value per share of $37.18.
Thanks Gene.
These are especially interesting times.
We really do focus on risk adjusted return.
It means we do some things that some of our competitors don’t do.
We don’t focus truly on accounting results because we’re focused on creating shareholder value more than reported earnings per se.
That means we start businesses instead of buying them because that’s a better economic return; it’s not a better accounting statement return.
We’re maintaining the quality of our investment portfolio and keeping a short duration because the risks of an insurance company are doubling down if inflation comes.
You get hurt with your loss reserves and if you extend the maturity and duration of your investment portfolio you’re effectively doubling down.
So we’ve chosen to reduce that risk the one that we can control.
We haven’t lowered the quality of our investment portfolio because the risk of an adverse economic turn will have a general adverse view on our business.
Therefore we’ve chosen not to take the risk.
So we’re constantly looking at the risk side of how we manage our business because all of our employees are owners it’s the biggest single element on our profit-sharing plan.
Clearly the management of the company views that as how they bet on their future.
We continue to look out and see lots of volatility and uncertainly in the future.
But we have a lot of confidence in the things that we see.
For every problem for every change it creates new opportunities.
And we think having the smartest people the best underwriters and the best teams of people continues to give us a competitive advantage.
Rob spends a substantial amount of his time out talking to new teams constantly trying to find the best teams to do particular things whatever they might be they can be small niches or big chunks of opportunity.
But we’re constantly out there looking.
And what we really are is a large group of small niches and we do it in a way that we can compete administratively and cost wise.
We don’t look like the people we compete with even though the numbers claim to be the same.
So we’re very excited.
We think the future is coming along today.
We think that the numbers are moving in the direction we like.
Clearly it’s a cyclical business but we think we’re well positioned and we’re constantly investing in that future.
It probably costs us $20 million a quarter each year for the new things we’ve been investing in.
Things we invested in three years ago give us a positive return than new things that we’re spending money on cost us money.
We think that’s how you build business for the future.
We think we’re going to have a better business in the future than we have today and today’s business is better than yesterday.
So I’m happy to answer any questions.
Patricia we’ll take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ryan Tunis with Credit Suisse.
This is Crystal Lu in for Ryan Tunis.
Our first question is just do you have any fourth quarter visibility into the investment fund returns given the move in energy? We know that the energy prices are down and that we’re going to probably have a small loss there but we haven’t released that number yet.
We normally put that in our 10-Q filing.
Our net position in our energy funds as relates to our overall fund has continued to diminish as a percentage of our funds.
So it’s a smaller and smaller number.
But when we file our Q we’ll announce those funds that we know already.
How should we think about the level of share repurchase this quarter? What kind of considerations are there? It’s the same considerations we always give.
We consider how to best use the capital owned by our shareholders which is either buying back stock paying special dividends or expanding the business and we’re always looking at the balance for those things.
And the cost of the balance - balance is the price of the shares the availability of the shares and opportunities that we see.
[Operator Instructions] I'm showing no further questions at this time.
Okay.
I thank Mike [McGavick] [ph] for that.
Have a wonderful day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today’s program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day and welcome to W.R.
Berkley Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
The speakers' remarks may contain forward-looking statements.
Some of the forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words including without limitation believes expects and estimates.
We caution you that forward-looking statements should not be regarded as a representation by us that the future plans estimates or expectations contemplated by us will in fact be achieved.
Please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31st 2015 and our other filings made with the SEC for a description of the business environment in which we operate and the important factors that may materially affect our results.
W.R.
Berkley Corporation is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any such obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Robert Berkley.
Please go ahead sir.
Jr.</strong> Thank you Bridgett and good afternoon and welcome to our fourth quarter call.
The agenda we have laid out is I'm going to start with some general comments then we're going to hand it over to Gene to walk you through the numbers and provide some highlights and then we'll move on to the Q&amp;A where our Chairman Gene and I will be available to answer any questions people have.
So starting out with a couple of comments on the marketplace.
By and large market conditions were consistent with what we've seen over the past several quarters.
The reinsurance marketplace remained seriously competitive though the pace of the erosion seems to be slowing particularly on the domestic market.
We're also seeing a slowing in the entry of new alternative capital providers in the reinsurance space.
And having said that we'll have to see if that trend continues.
On the international insurance front certainly this has remained a very competitive market at least in the marketplaces that we participate in.
Having said that while we've seen several carriers over the past few years increasing their footprint it would seem as though some of them are beginning to pause and perhaps in some cases reconsider these plans.
As it relates to the domestic insurance business very much as in the past a mixed bag.
Yes marginally in the aggregate more competitive.
Having said that the cat-exposed property market continues to be remarkably competitive.
Perhaps this is a result or an extension from what's been going on in the cat reinsurance market.
Commercial auto while rate increases are achievable certainly the margins in that space continue to give us reason to pause.
Having said that on the other hand the casualty market the professional market and the comp market while not across the board certainly offer several pockets where there's very attractive opportunity to deploy capital and generate good returns.
So having said all of this while it does appear like it's such a natural extension of earlier quarters during 2015 the fact is over the past several months there's been quite a bit of change if you peel a few layers back.
There's been a significant amount of M&amp;A going on and in addition to that several large companies are going through some very meaningful reorganizations.
As a result of that we are seeing the potential for a lot of disruption in the P&amp;C space.
Perhaps this dislocation will actually prove to be as meaningful as some have speculated which ultimately could generate a great opportunity for carriers like ourselves and others.
On a different note a quick comment about distribution.
Clearly as the marketplace is becoming more competitive for both carriers and distribution there's a growing amount of pressure or tension between the two parties.
Hopefully while everyone is busy trying to find ways to maintain their margins people will not lose sight of the ultimate goal which is to find ways to work together to bring more demonstrable additional value to customers.
And finally a comment on interest rates.
We have had a view for some time that interest rates would be moving up.
I think our view has been modified somewhat.
Not that rates will be moving up but quite frankly we think it may be a more gradual process than some have suggested.
We will see over time.
Obviously we are reminded that in spite of the improvements in the U.S.
economy as a result of globalization the U.S.
economy is not insulated from some of the challenges that other meaningful economies around the world are facing.
A couple of sound bites on our operation before I flip it over to Gene.
Certainly the top line we thought was a reasonable growth rate.
Obviously it was somewhat impacted by FX.
Having said that when you peel a few layers back we are growing where we think the opportunities are and quite frankly where we don't see the opportunities that is where our book is shrinking.
Ultimately we think that you can see in our press release that there are certain places where the margins are very healthy and we are looking to increase our footprint there.
So I'm going to pause there and hand it over to Gene and let him run through the numbers.
Okay.
Thanks Rob.
Well we closed the year with another solid quarter with operating income of 18% to $115 million and operating income per share of 22% to $0.89.
The improvement from over a year ago was led by higher investment income and a modest increase in underwriting profits.
Our overall net premiums written increased 3% to $1.5 billion.
For the domestic segment premiums increased 8% with professional liability lines up 29% workers' compensation business up another 13% and other liability lines up 9%.
Partially offsetting those was an 8% decline in commercial automobile business where we continue to emphasize needed rate increases.
For the international segment net premiums declined 11% to $185 million due primarily to the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
In local currency terms the decline in international premiums was 2% as growth in Canada South America was offset by lower premiums in Europe and Australia.
And our global reinsurance premiums were down 10% to $146 million due to the impact of the continuing soft market conditions for the reinsurance business in both the U.S.
and abroad.
Our pretax underwriting profits were up 7% in the quarter to $107 million and the combined ratio improved by two-tenths of a point to 93.1.
For the current accident year our pre-cat loss ratio declined 1.1 points from a year ago to 60.0 with all three business segments reporting accident year loss ratios between 58% and 61%.
Cat losses were just $11 million compared with $18 million a year ago.
In the current quarter there were no individual events with losses more than $2 million.
And the overall cat loss ratio was just seven-tenths of a point.
Prior-year reserves developed favorably by $15 million or 1 loss ratio point with positive development for the domestic and reinsurance segments and essentially no change in reserves for the international business.
That's now 36 consecutive quarters that we've reported positive reserve development.
So in total that gives us a calendar year loss ratio of 59.8 down a full percentage point from a year ago.
Turning to expenses our overall expense ratio for the quarter was 33.3 compared with 32.5 in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Looking at it by segment the domestic expense ratio increased eight-tenths of a point to 31.2 due primarily to higher DAC amortization.
For the full year the domestic expense ratio which was also 31.2 was four-tenths of a point below full year 2014 and right in line with our business plan.
The international expense ratio increased 1.3 percentage points from a year ago to 41.5 due in part to a lower premium volume.
On the other hand the fourth quarter expense ratio of international was almost 2 points below the third quarter expense ratio as we're beginning to see the benefit of the international expense initiatives that we talked about on our last earnings call.
And finally the reinsurance expense ratio increased 2 percentage points to 39.4 also due in part to lower premium volume -- lower premium volume.
In addition as I mentioned in the last couple of calls the 2015 reinsurance expense ratio includes the impact of certain structured property [CREs] [ph] that paid profit commissions if losses are below a stated level.
And although these contracts continue to be quite profitable they added 1.5 points to the expense ratio for the segment.
Turning to investments our investment income was up 12% to $128 million.
Earnings from our internally managed investments including our arbitrage trading account were in line with prior year at $116 million and an average annualized yield of 3.1%.
Income from investment funds was $11 million in the current quarter compared to a loss of $4 million a year ago.
The improvement reflects higher earnings from real estate funds as well as a foreign investment fund that was partially offset by a previously reported loss of $12 million for energy funds.
For the full year investment funds reported aggregate pretax earnings of $62 million and an average return on investments of 5.2%.
Also in the current quarter we reported realized gains of $13 million and recognized [another] [ph] temporary impairments of $21 million.
The impairments are related to declines in fair value for equity investments in both the energy sector and the financial services sector.
At December 31 2015 the average credit rating for the portfolio was AA-minus and the average duration was 3.3 years.
With the increase in interest rates and spreads in 2015 the after-tax unrealized gains declined by $115 million to $181 million at December 31st.
Of course with the subsequent decrease in rates in January that's moved significantly back in the other direction.
Unrealized currency translation losses also increased by $125 million in 2015 as a result of the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar against our holdings in non-denominated -- non-U.S.
denominated securities including the British pound euros Australian and Canadian dollar.
That gives us an operating income of $115 million for the quarter and an operating ROE of 10% and for the full year it gives us a net income of $504 million earnings per share of $3.87 20% increase in cash flow to $881 million and a net income return on equity of 11%.
Jr.</strong> Okay.
Thank you Gene.
So as you all can see a solid quarter.
We're particularly pleased with the improvement in international.
Our work is not done there but certainly a meaningful improvement on the loss ratio front.
And as Gene suggested while perhaps the improvement is not visible on the expense front when comparing fourth quarter to fourth quarter if you compare the fourth quarter to the third quarter meaningful improvement there.
We are not done there more work to do but we expect the trend to continue.
So overall again happy with the quarter.
Thought it was a good year.
Additionally because of the nature of our business we have a fair amount of visibility as to what 2016 is going to look like and barring any unforeseen event I think we are reasonably confident that we will be able in 2016 to improve from where we were in 2015.
So we will be pausing at this stage.
Again you have Chairman Bill Berkley Gene and myself available to answer questions.
Bridget if you could please open it up.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thanks so much.
Hey Rob could you talk a little bit about -- maybe a little bit more about the expense ratio in domestic? Nice growth there.
It's sort of been sitting here still above 31% and we are sort of assuming that the trend line last couple of quarters represented would continue just given the growth there.
Can you talk a little bit about what's happening and you know how we should be thinking about that? Jr.</span></strong> Well Gene as you commented there was a bit of a component having to do with DAC.
But I think the other piece that we have there is that while we haven't made big public announcements about it we have added over the past couple of quarters call it about a handful of teams to the organization.
And as a result of that we've incurred not an insignificant amount of expense.
It takes time for that earned premium to come through.
Having said that honestly Mike from our perspective can as we've discussed in the past can we improve from the 31? Yeah I think maybe we can over time improve from the 31.
But it's unlikely that you're going to see us getting to a level that's significantly below where we are today just because of the nature of our domestic business.
We are a significant specialty player and a fair amount of that is coming through a wholesaler.
We need to both address the need of a wholesaler as well as ultimately a retailer.
So do I think that we were adversely impacted and Gene commented on this earlier to a certain extent by DAC do I think -- yes that is clearly the case.
Having said that as our model has been for years we tend to prefer to start businesses up.
We think that's a more controlled model.
But as a result of that the earned lags the expenses and I think you're seeing a bit of that as well.
Having again having said that I don't think you should be expecting our domestic business to pass significantly to -- or should really get to a level materially below where we're running.
Can we get down to 30%? Yes.
Can we maybe get to 29%? Yes.
But we'll need to see a hard market akin to like what we saw in 2003 2004 to get there.
Got it.
Okay thanks for that.
And then how should we be thinking about the investment funds the income from those funds in 2016 and just given the sort of rough start here at the beginning of the year you know can you give us just some context for how we should be thinking about that and do you plan to reallocate within that cluster of assets? Michael it's Bill.
Hey Bill.
I think that first of all the allocation of our resources we're down to probably $100 million in total investments in our energy funds and that's the total exposure.
I think the first quarter we'll have a modest loss probably $4 million $5 million $6 million from the energy funds.
A number of the other funds who are -- we already have the results for a couple of real estate funds are quite positive.
So the funds for the first quarter will be okay.
I think that you know the only fund that's had real volatility that's been surprising has really been the oil fund and that's followed everything else in the oil industry.
The rest of the funds have been reasonably consistent performers.
And we have a wide diversity of funds so.
Okay.
I think that we'll continue doing the things that we do in those funds our real estate investments and so forth.
Got it.
And then if I could I think we've on prior calls we've talked about the tax rate and the fact that it's relatively high compared to peers.
I mean is there -- is that an area where we can expect you're looking at potential ways to improve your efficiency there? And if so can you just kind of let us know what you might be thinking about doing or what we might be able to see in the future? Jr.</span></strong> Mike the answer is yes we are very conscious of it.
And certainly we as an organization our Chairman in particular has been reasonably clear about our views as an organization.
We are aware of the challenges around it compared to some of those that we compete against.
And we are -- it is on our radar screen as far as our plans.
Certainly it's something again that we think a lot about but I don't think at this stage there's really anything to discuss beyond that.
I would add however that we do in our press release provide a pretax number because we think that it's important for investors to be able to compare on an apples to apples basis putting aside tax the underlying earnings power of a business.
It's not that the tax isn't real it's not that it doesn't impact our model compared to some that we compete against.
At the same time there is oftentimes more than one way to look at a situation.
I think we could add something else.
I mean it's -- one of the things when you assess short-term tax rates versus asset exposures and so forth there are plenty of people who choose asset mixes such as municipal bonds and so forth that give you lower tax rate but don't really give you over a long term better returns.
So I think that we try and look at overall returns and in the short term that can penalize us from the tax rate point of view.
We think we still make the right decision.
And if you take note our percentage of our portfolio that represents municipal bonds has gone down substantially as returns have been such that we could realize substantial gains in that part of the portfolio.
All right.
I guess and with the gap now with peers the tax rate differential is wider in part because the municipal bonds aren't there as well.
So I guess I'm just -- It's also more of our peers have moved offshore.
Also fair.
Also fair.
Yes so I guess I'm just you know I think Robbie answered it but I guess my question is are you spending is this an area that's getting more attention as time goes on or you know is it something -- Couldn't get more attention Mike.
Jr.</span></strong> Yeah.
Okay.
Jr.</span></strong> We are aware of it Mike.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Kai Pan with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
So the first question is on capital management.
It looks like you didn't repurchase any shares in the quarter.
I just wonder is it because the stock price where you consider other options such as special dividends or potentially growing the business either organically or inorganically? Jr.</span></strong> Yeah.
I think the answer to that is obviously quite frankly very consistent with what I think you've heard in the past we are conscious of trying to manage our capital effectively and in the best interest of our shareholders.
We look out at our growth prospects and what we think our capital needs will be.
To the extent that there is excess capital then we will try and figure out what the optimal way to return shareholder -- value to shareholders whether that be through a dividend or repurchase.
As far as the specifics around the special dividend or repurchase no different than in the past it's not really something that we get into a lot of detail.
But what I can assure you of is that capital management remains something that we are focused on in the past and continue today.
Okay.
Just following up on that do you -- you have a pretty nice growth in terms of top line and you'll hire additional teams for future growth.
I just wonder would that consume part of your capital generated through your operations going forward? Jr.</span></strong> Certainly we think that it is possible our business will grow in 2016 compared to 2015 and as a result of that presumably there would be a need for additional capital.
Having said that obviously our growth is dependent on what market conditions are.
Ultimately we can't control the market.
We can only control our actions and our activity.
So again do we think there is opportunity for growth given how we see the market conditions at this stage? Yes.
And as a result of that will that create an opportunity a situation where we will be consuming perhaps a bit more capital? Yes that's correct.
Okay.
Second question is that you commented in the prepared remarks that you expect better returns with 2016.
Just drill down a little bit on that.
Given -- can you talk about the price environment also investment returns? And what gives you confidence that you'll be able to generate better returns in the coming year? Jr.</span></strong> Well first of all I think I suggested to you that we think that 2016 will be a better year than 2015.
Return is certainly one of the metrics one might use.
I don't think that was the metric that I use.
Putting that aside the optimism around 2016 is because as you know our reported results we earn that premium through so we -- over a period of time.
So we have a fair amount of visibility as to what our earned premium is going to be.
We also have a fair amount of insight as to what our loss picks [ph] are running.
And to ultimately again we just feel like we have that visibility gives us the comfort that we think 2016 will be a better year.
Additionally some of the noise that came out of the international segment that we referenced earlier and have discussed on past calls we do not anticipate that rearing its head again.
In fact we are expecting improvement from here.
Okay that's great.
Lastly if I may on the investment side can you give updates on the -- in the past I think you talked about this before Bill about some of the investment actually you mark sort of the book value rather than its mark-to-market value.
Given all the market movements what's your estimate in terms of book value per share -- It's come down a lot.
How much? My guess is it's probably come down $150 million from where it was so it's probably come down significantly.
On the other hand candidly coupled with pieces of real estate seem to have better values than we expected based on some transactions that have taken place.
But clearly the market has gone down and certainly at least the health equity where we're a big shareholder is down from where it was by let's just say round numbers $150 million.
Okay -- As of now.
As of the end of the year it was substantially less than that.
But I'm marking it to today's price.
Great.
Where do you Bill where do you see investment opportunities? Because like given the track record the past few years actually a lot of book value gains that are coming from these harvesting gains as well as these investments and given the market condition do you think that opportunity becoming less going forward? What were you still find the areas that could provide additional returns? Always better opportunities when everyone else thinks there are none.
So we're really quite optimistic.
And we see numerous opportunities where people are more concerned or need financing because we buy things without debt without financing and we can go in and do a transaction without needing any financing any contingency based on things we know and understand.
So we continue to see great opportunities.
Thank you so much for all the answers.
Robert congratulations in assuming the CEO role.
Jr.</span></strong> Thank you.
It's very kind of you.
Thank you.
Our next question is Ryan Tunis with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hey thanks.
My first question is I guess going back to Rob's prepared remarks on interest rates and it sounded like a modification of the view there that interest rates still rise but more gradually.
Just wondering practically speaking if that has an impact on either your investment philosophy or how you're thinking about trends.
I think that the answer to that really is that we're just trying to indicate that clearly deficit spending ultimately is going to bring about higher interest rates in our view.
But as long as governments continue to find ways to defer paying the piper that's not going to happen and it seems like they've been able to find ways for a long time.
So our expectation of increasing interest rates is just not happening.
We thought rates would be up 100 basis points this year.
We think it's probably not so likely.
Jr.</span></strong> This year being 2016.
This year being 2016.
And we just -- we're in a quandary.
We sit here and say what's and who is going to do what? And is inflation in fact going to take hold as we anticipate? So we're trying to be more cautious and not in fact sit here and wait.
So I think we're just taking a little more cautious stance.
Okay.
But no change to your I guess your view of trend given the lack of inflation or just thoughts on how you might deploy the short-term portion of your investment portfolio? Our short-term portion of investments is something we continually try to find creative ways where we don't need as much liquidity as we have.
So are there things we can do where we give up instant liquidity but maintain that AA AAA quality of risk? So we're willing to give up instant liquidity and have three-month liquidity to get a little bit better yield.
But the fact is in the past 30 days or so five-year treasury is down by 50 basis points.
That's a hell of a change.
And people who close their eyes to those changes are naïve.
That's a huge change and if you look at our cash flow we generate $700 million $800 million $900 million a year of cash flow.
That makes a difference in how we invest our money and we're shooting for a three-year duration.
So we're just constantly trying to figure out how and what do we do.
And the cornerstone for our operation for our short-term money is we have lots of liquidity we can give up our short-term instant liquidity but we can't and aren't willing to give up the quality of our portfolio.
Jr.</span></strong> As far as the picks around loss trend as we've discussed with comments [ph] in the past we tend to err on the -- mature [ph] then we will recognize the fact that we took a very measure approach to begin with.
But certainly if inflation continues to be as benign for the foreseeable future as it's been over the past several years we as an organization from the reserve perspective would do that as a plus.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Vinay Misquith with Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Hi good evening.
The first question is the accident year loss ratio ex cats.
We saw that at about 60.0% this quarter.
This was about 100 basis points better than last quarter and the year-ago quarter.
Just wondering what's happening with that.
Jr.</span></strong> Gene would you like to comment or would you like me to? Well the one observation I was going to make is you know as we get towards the end of the year obviously we learn more information as the year goes along and by the time we get to the end of the year we've got a pretty good idea where it's going to land.
We might be a little cautious towards the beginning of the year and you know we firm that up.
Okay that's fair enough.
And should we expect that could deteriorate slightly next year given the fact that pricing is likely not keeping trend with loss cost? Jr.</span></strong> I'm sorry you were breaking up a little bit.
Would you mind repeating the question? Sure.
Sorry.
So should we expect the accident year loss ratio ex cat to deteriorate slightly in 2016 versus 2015 given that pricing is not keeping trend with loss cost trend? Jr.</span></strong> I wouldn't -- suggest that you not leap to that conclusion.
First of all that would be -- you would be making an assumption that our portfolio is not changing and the mix of business isn't changing for starters which would be the wrong assumption.
And in addition to that again trying to figure out how far I can go here we feel very comfortable with our loss picks and it's certainly possible that there will continue to be good news to come.
See he made the mistake he let the lawyers sit next to him.
I never sit next to the lawyers.
Right.
Jr.</span></strong> I try to answer your question without answering it.
Hopefully you got -- I think I got the answer.
Okay.
Jr.</span></strong> Thank you.
What else can we share with you? Yeah the follow-up is on the net investment income.
I mean that was much much better than what we thought especially on the fixed income side on the core portfolio.
How did it increase much quarter over quarter and year over year? It was pretty much what we thought it was going to be.
We -- maybe it was the cash flow but I mean it was pretty much in line with what our expectations were.
Yeah it was.
I mean I think it -- I look at it compared to our expectations and it was insignificantly different.
So maybe if you can chat with Karen [ph] about your forecast for that.
But it was right on with you know it was not significantly different than our forecast.
Okay that's helpful.
And then one last thing if I may.
You said that there are some opportunities in the market because of what's happening with some competitors.
Jr.</span></strong> Yup.
Those competitors are larger competitors.
Just curious if you're seeing some opportunities in your space too.
Jr.</span></strong> So let me offer a couple of sound bites and I suspect my boss has a view to share as well.
I think for -- there are several opportunities that have come into focus from our perspective.
Some of those opportunities we had capitalized on some of those we have explored and decided not to pursue and some of those opportunities we continue to explore.
The fact of the matter is by and large whenever there is a meaningful merger or acquisition that creates a degree of overlaps or uncertainty or potential dislocation that impacts both the people within the organization and it also can honestly impact people outside of the organization such as the distribution system and customers.
So we certainly have seen opportunities as a result of the M&amp;A activity.
We expect we will see more.
In addition to that as you and others are aware just like we're aware there are some very meaningful organizations in the P&amp;C space that seem to be going through a process of looking in the mirror and making some significant changes.
As a result of that that is creating some uncertainty confusion and ultimately potentially opportunity as well for organizations like ourselves for both talent and business.
So all things being equal from our perspective we do think that there are some opportunities that we've been able to capitalize on and we think that there will be more to come.
From our perspective as we've suggested to some in the past insurance business is fundamentally two things.
It's capital and it's people.
We believe capital is ever more a commodity and people are what makes the difference.
So the opportunity to attract talented people from other organizations is certainly something that we are focused on.
Good.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Yeah thank you.
Good evening everybody.
Jr.</span></strong> Good evening Josh.
Good evening.
So if you improved the international business I'm wondering if you can drill down a little bit into maybe what lines of business need fixing and how you measure success and ultimately whether you think you have a core competency in international markets the way you do in the domestic markets.
Jr.</span></strong> A couple of questions there so let me try and take them one at a time.
First of all we do believe that everything is not perfect every plate is not spinning perfectly but we think we are well on our way down the path to a better place.
I appreciate the comment but I don't think everything in the markets here we have running perfectly either.
As far as core competencies go we do not necessarily take the same approach that other organizations take particularly very large multinationals.
We have no desire to be in every market around the world.
We have a desire to participate in market niches within markets where we're able to compete based on expertise.
Obviously there are some places where we have not succeeded in doing that hence some of the results and some of the discussion that we've shared with you in the past.
Having said that we as I suggested a moment ago we believe that we are well on our way to remedy that.
So quite frankly I think our strategy outside of the United States is not dissimilar to our strategy in the United States.
We are not trying to be the global all things to all people.
We are trying to find niche opportunities in other markets where it makes sense outside of the United States to achieve reasonable risk-adjusted returns.
In several markets that we participate in Latin America would be an example I think we have achieved that consistently for more than a decade.
I believe we are doing that through our Lloyd's operation as well.
Having said that some of the activity in Canada -- excuse me in Continental Europe has not proven to work out as well.
But again we think that we are getting that sorted.
By premium if you were to divide it into the 80-20 rule are 80% of the returns by premium very attractive and 20% are providing problems or how should we think about it? Jr.</span></strong> I think the way I would suggest that you think about it is as I suggested earlier Josh there were a couple of places that we zigged when we should have zagged and we think that we are well on our way to having that sorted out.
I would hesitate to try and start putting percentages on it because I don't have it down to the decimal point.
But -- There's a better person in charge now Josh so we'll get it cleaned up.
Okay very good.
Thank you.
Jr.</span></strong> Thanks Josh.
Have a good evening.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Jay Cohen with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Yes thank you.
Rob in your prepared remarks you mentioned that in 2016 you're looking for improvement and you really didn't mention a metric.
I guess the earlier assumption was it was ROE.
One of the I guess headwinds you see is catastrophe losses were relatively low this year lowest in seven or eight years.
So with that headwind when you look at things like combined ratio is it possible to improve upon where you were? Jr.</span></strong> I think -- again here we go with the forward-looking statements.
I think our view is that based on what we know today which is imperfect and I highlight imperfect we think that there is a reasonably good chance significantly better than average that we will be able to improve our top line as well as our loss ratio.
Additionally we think that there's good reason to believe that we will be able to improve our expense ratio.
Having said that going back to some of the comments earlier given some of the dislocation in the market we will be prepared to sacrifice our expense ratio in the short run in order to invest in new operations as we have done historically.
Great.
Jr.</span></strong> What else can we share with you Jay? My other questions were asked already so I am good.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mark Dwelle with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Yeah good evening.
A couple of questions.
First on the service fee revenue.
That declined a fair bit in the quarter at least in percentage basis and it's sort of contra to the trend.
Is that something that rolled off there or ran off there that caused that reversal? Well that fee basis is most of it is related to one of our companies that manages assigned risk plans on behalf various states so there's some variability in that business from one year to the next and on what states come on or drop off.
Jr.</span></strong> So there in other words A first of all as the population of these pools grow and shrink you have that variable.
But even more so these are contracts that we enter and they tend to be for a few years at a time and they come up for bid every certain number of years.
And again sometimes they're rolling on sometimes they're rolling off.
So that's what creates a bit of the volatility as some of the contracts roll off.
Okay.
Jr.</span></strong> Ultimately we -- sorry excuse me? No go ahead.
Jr.</span></strong> I was just going to say as we've discussed in the past obviously the size of those pools tends to ebb and flow with market conditions.
The pools are shrinking a bit at this stage as the traditional market is accepting more of the risk and the risk is not spilling over into the market of last resort.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And commercial auto I guess I was fairly surprised at how quickly the level of premiums there had reversed.
That had been kind of generally growing albeit slightly for most of the year and then this quarter seemed to mark a fairly sharp contrast.
Heard from competitors sort of mixed views on commercial auto and was wondering if you could share a little more detail about how you're thinking about the sector and maybe more specifically what types of pricing challenges you're facing there.
Jr.</span></strong> Sure.
Generally speaking as we've been discussing I guess for probably not this quarter maybe a couple of years at this stage we found that commercial auto space overall to be particularly challenged.
Long and intermediate haul trucking probably is standing out in particular though the overall space is not an easy one.
Our activity in the commercial auto space has been shrinking for some number of years.
It may not be visible in some of the things that you see because the fact of the matter is you see the amount of premium we're writing you don't see our exposures going down.
So our exposure count has gone down -- it has been going down dramatically for some period of time and it probably the fourth quarter just accelerated further.
The amount of premium that we are collecting is not reducing at the same pace because of the rate increases that we are achieving.
So I think that's why I would encourage you not to leap through any conclusion just based on some of the numbers that we are publishing.
Again our exposure count or the power units that we are writing is going down at a far more quick pace than the numbers that you are seeing and it's just the rate increases that are mitigating that to an extent.
Okay that's helpful.
I'll stop there.
Thanks.
Jr.</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question is from Ian Gutterman with Balyasny.
Your line is open Hi thanks.
Gene first do you have the paid loss ratio for the quarter? Yeah I do.
That would be 55.8.
Great.
Thank you.
Yeah it's fifty -- it's right in line where it's been in the you know mid to 50s pretty much through the year.
Got it got it.
Rob in your opening comments you mentioned a slowdown in alternative capital and kind of the [ph] reinsurance market.
I guess I was wondering is that something that we should take that that may affect your ability to execute something in the space or is that more just a broad market comment? Jr.</span></strong> Yeah I think it's just a general observation about the reinsurance marketplace.
Clearly the entry of a meaningful amount of alternative capital over the past several years has put a meaningful amount of pressure the reinsurance marketplace and specifically on the traditional players.
The pressure is still there but it doesn't seem like it continues to flow in at the same pace.
Got it.
Great.
And then just finally on the investment impairments the $20 million or so.
Was that something that -- is that one of those mechanical adjustments where if the equities are down 20% for a certain duration that they have to be marked or is it something different? Exactly right.
It was already marked-to-market on the balance sheet and once it's more than 12 months you have to run it through the income statement.
Got it okay.
It's a really stupid world [ph].
It is a stupid world.
Because otherwise once you've run it through [ph] the income statement if it goes back up the next day you don't get to run it in the income statement when it goes back up.
Exactly.
So it's pretty dumb [ph].
It is a bad world [ph].
I was just curious that it was bad enough something that you chose to impair based on a view of something.
And then is it reasonable to assume that if the markets stay where they are for the rest of the quarter probably a little bit more of this next quarter? Because you'll have more things sort of tripping that [ph] 20%? There may be some other but it's not of consequence [ph].
Not significant okay great.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
And our last question is from Brian Meredith with UBS.
Your line is open.
Yes thanks.
Hey Rob I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit about what your exposure is on the underwriting side to the energy sector in the U.S.? I know you've made some efforts to grow in that area over the last couple of years.
Anything that we should kind of be thinking about or anything that's on your radar screen as far as potential loss activity coming out of that area? Jr.</span></strong> Yeah good memory Brian.
We have expanded a bit into the energy space and it's something that we've chatted about with you all in the past.
Just to put it in perspective from an underwriting perspective our exposure to oil and gas is less than 5% of our premium.
It's closer to -- I think it's about 3-1/2% the last time I had a look.
So is it something we care about? Sure it's something we care about.
But is it something that's going to dramatically derail the organization as that sector is under pressure? No we don't think it forget dramatic we don't think it really is going to even be a blip for us.
And as far as the loss activity goes we've seen no evidence to date that it is going to create an issue for our -- the picks [ph] that we are using.
Great.
Thanks.
And then next question I'm just curious any thoughts about increasing your reinsurance buy as we look into 2016 given we're hearing a lot more about multiyear deals coming in place and it's tracked to reinsurance pricing? Jr.</span></strong> Certainly.
We are in touch with the reinsurance market.
By and large it is a better moment to be a buyer than a seller.
From our perspective we try and view the reinsurance market as a place where we can partner with long-term partners.
We do not look to arbitrage our partners.
At the same time we are not naïve to the market conditions and the opportunity that generates for our shareholders.
So as far as the specifics around our reinsurance buying strategy Brian that's just not something we tend to really get into in this type of forum.
But I would suggest we -- we're not trying to abuse anyone but we are not naïve to market conditions.
Great.
Thanks.
Jr.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
And I'm not showing any further questions.
I'll now turn the call back over to Mr.
Berkley for closing remarks.
Jr.</strong> Okay Bridget [ph] thank you very much and thank you all for calling in.
As we've suggested earlier we think both the quarter and the year were a solid showing.
We continue to be very focused on generating what we believe are solid returns.
And again our view is that the return on equity that we should be able to achieve in the future is something that we are very focused on.
And it is our view that we will be able to improve 2016 when compared to 2015.
So again we think the market offers meaningful opportunity.
We think some of the challenges that we've faced in 2015 are behind us.
And we are enthusiastic about what is ahead.
Thank you all for joining us and have a good evening.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude the program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.