Good morning.
My name is Krista and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Weingarten First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Ms.
Kristin Horn you may begin your conference.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter 2011 conference call.
Joining me today are Drew Alexander President and CEO; Stanford Alexander Chairman; Johnny Hendrix Executive Vice President and COO; Steve Richter Executive Vice President and CFO; Robert Smith Senior Vice President; and Joe Shafer Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
As a reminder certain statements made during the course of this call are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
More information about these factors is contained in the company's SEC filings.
Also during this conference call management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as funds from operations or FFO which we believe help analysts and investors to better understand Weingarten's operating results.
Reconciliation to this non-GAAP financial measure is available in our supplemental information packet located under the Investor Relations tab of our website.
I would also like to request that callers observe a two-question limit during the Q&amp;A portion of our call in order to give everyone a chance to participate.
If you have additional questions please rejoin the queue.
I will now turn the call over to Drew Alexander.
Thanks Kristin.
Good morning everyone.
As most of you heard during our 2011 annual analyst and investor day in New York a couple of weeks ago things are getting better.
If you were unable to listen to the call a replay of the presentation is available via our corporate website under the Investor Relations tab.
While not repeating I will briefly highlight some of the more important aspects of the presentation.
Senior management discussed how fallout is decreasing same property net operating income and rental rates are slowly but surely becoming less negative year-over-year and we expect occupancy will end the year where we guided at 92% for the total portfolio.
In addition but probably the most important aspect of the analyst day presentation was the accelerated capital recycling program of our secondary assets.
We anticipate that over the next several years we will prune approximately $600 million of assets further strengthening our high-quality portfolio.
The combination of increased operating fundamentals and the strategic direction outlined in our five-year business plan will allow Weingarten to be a top performer in the retail REIT arena.
There will be bumps in the road like Blockbuster and Ultimate Electronics which Johnny will discuss more in his remarks.
However we're excited about what 2011 brings in the solid future with continue upward momentum over the next five years that we've outlined.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Steve Richter to discuss the financial results.
Thanks Drew and good morning everyone.
We discussed last quarter but I want to mention again this morning Weingarten will detail its funds from operations on a reported and recurring basis.
We've itemized the differences between these metrics on Page 5 of our supplemental information package for your convenience.
Weingarten reported funds from operations or FFO per diluted share of $0.41 for the first quarter of 2011.
Recurring FFO was $50.4 million or $0.42 per diluted share for the quarter.
Reported FFO was affected by several small impairments all of which were related to property sales including two industrial buildings two tracts of undeveloped land which were included in our land held for future development and the exercise of a tenant's purchase option on a single building in one of our retail centers.
Recurring FFO continues to track according to our 2011 business plan and we continue to believe we will produce between $1.72 and $1.82 of recurring FFO per share as we previously guided for the full year of 2011.
As part of the analyst day presentation we outlined a five-year forecast that produces 5-plus percent FFO growth in 2014 and 2015 and even stronger growth in 2012 and '13 as we move back to the 95% to 96% occupancy.
These results will be achieved through several different factors but the most important are the increases in occupancy and the narrowing of the spread between signed and commenced leases.
I'm also pleased to announce that the Sheridan bond financing transaction that we discussed last quarter closed subsequent to quarter end.
A $0.15 per share improvement loss will be recognized in Q2 the period in which the transaction closed.
This impairment is excluded from our recurring FFO guidance.
Our balance sheet continues to be strong with total leverage in the 40% range and a fixed charge cover of 2.4x.
The 5-year business plan also highlighted further improvements in the balance sheet and our financial metrics and ratios resulting from the $600 million of projected dispositions.
So we're in great shape from a balance sheet and liquidity perspective to execute the strategy we laid out three weeks ago.
I will now turn the call over to Robert Smith to discuss our development results.
Thank you Steve.
On the development front things are going well.
We are in good shape on our 2011 projected stabilizations.
We've taken great strides in trimming our land held for development and we are beginning to create a modest level of new activity that we hope to soon bring into our pipeline.
Since analyst day in our existing development portfolio Harris Teeter supermarkets successfully opened at Surf City Crossing in Surf City North Carolina.
Initial reports are that they are pleased with their opening sales volume and expect this to be a good store.
To coincide with the opening of Harris Teeter we signed leases on an additional 5 000 square feet of small shop space and currently have one out parcel under contract for a major drugstore chain.
Leasing activity at some of our existing development projects is also picking up.
We are seeing notable increases in activity both at Clermont Landing in Florida which is anchored by JCPenney TJ Maxx and Ross as well as that Ridgeway Trace in Memphis Tennessee which is anchored by Target and Best Buy.
Finally through the combination of land sales and the reactivation of projects into our development pipeline we are making considerable progress in reducing our land held for development.
We have already sold $9 million of land.
We anticipate moving another $25 million into active development over the next several quarters and have an additional $10 million of sales in negotiations.
Although the timing and uncertainty of any transaction in the current environment remains we believe the combination of these items would reduce land held for development by approximately $45 million or roughly 30% of the year end balance.
Although there is still much to accomplish we have made considerable progress and feel our development platform and properties will create future shareholder value.
I will now turn the call over to Johnny Hendrix to discuss our operating results.
Thank you Robert.
Good morning  to everybody on the call.
We continue to be encouraged that a better operating environment is evolving.
Our supermarkets are healthy.
They seem to have the pricing power to pass off commodity increases and financially they've seen sizable increases in valuation over the last several months.
Today 75% of our retail NOI comes from shopping centers with a grocery component.
So supermarkets are our most significant customers and when they're healthy it's better for us.
The Business Bureau reports supermarket sales increased 3.9% in the first quarter of 2011 versus a year ago.
Our second most significant category discount ready-to-wear stores like TJX and Ross are also continuing to increase sales.
With Easter sales moved to the end of April it's even more impressive they produced quarter-over-quarter increases.
They're comping against strong numbers over the last year and continued increases confirmed they're offering value and quality products consumers are looking for.
Healthy retailers are in a position to open new stores and should be willing to pay higher rent as quality space becomes more scarce.
So far during 2011 operations have progressed pretty much according to our business plan.
We did see that dip in occupancy we talked about during the last couple of calls and at quarter end our retail portfolio was up 92.3% occupied still slightly ahead of the first quarter 2010.
For the company our rent growth was down 1.1% and down 1.4% for our retail new leases and renewals.
We're seeing good pricing power with retail renewals which were up about 1%.
It's important to know we're being aggressive on new leases signing short-term agreements or leases with significant steps built in.
This reduces our rent growth in the near term but we believe we'll see rental rates escalate over the next couple of years and we'll be in a better position to capitalize on those increases when we have higher occupancy and these short-term leases roll.
We signed 152 new retail leases for 466 000 square feet in the first quarter which is about the same number of leases we've averaged over the last couple of years.
The square footage is slightly lower mostly because we've leased the bulk of our spaces over 10 000 square feet.
The company's same property NOI was up 0.4% with retail at 0.5%.
The primary driver is the commencement of leases signed during 2010.
We currently have about 900 000 square feet of retail space signed and not commenced.
The opening of these stores will drive the increase in same property NOI throughout the rest of 2011 and into 2012.
A couple of situations have varied slightly from our plans.
The industrial portfolio experienced some further weakness during the quarter.
Occupancies held at 87% primarily due to the expiration of a 110 000-square-foot lease in one of our Dallas properties.
We believe rates have bottomed as rents were slightly positive for the quarter.
Also on the positive side no new space is being built and we're seeing more leasing activity.
Certainly industrial space is quite dependent on the overall economy.
Our business plan assumes some improvement in the economy and we project to be at 88% to 89% occupancy at year end.
Second Ultimate Electronics closed all three of their stores with us in the second quarter.
The fact they closed is not a surprise.
We did think it would take a little longer to liquidate the company.
Also the situation with Blockbuster continues to deteriorate.
We received notice from Dish the successor to Blockbuster that they were affirming 4 leases and reviewing the status of the 12 remaining.
Some definitive plans should be disclosed over the next 90 days but our expectation is most of these 12 leases will be terminated.
The most current details of these lease terminations and further exposure is described in a chart on Page 45 of the supplemental.
While the loss of rent associated with these terminations is disappointing we're comfortable our business plan adequately anticipated these reductions and as Steve mentioned we are maintaining guidance.
It's worth repeating we believe we'll re-lease all the Blockbuster spaces over the next 12 to 24 months and we believe they will be revenue neutral even after adjusting for capital.
They certainly occupied the best spaces in our shopping centers and we're seeing lots of interest from quick-service restaurants banks and just about any tenant who's looking for space.
We also had a bit of positive surprise.
Fallout from spaces less than 10 000 square feet were the lowest we've seen since 2007.
Not accounting for Blockbuster about 10% less than the first quarter last year.
I think it's a positive sign that our local shops are stabilizing.
You may have seen in the press release small shop fallouts in Florida were down 18%.
This along with a 34% pick up in new leases in Florida is a good indication the state is stabilizing.
There's not much to add on the acquisition front.
Since our Investor Day meeting we've invested $33 million in the 4 properties noted in the press release.
At the meeting I mentioned we may have a couple of properties fall out of the acquisition pipeline and in fact that has happened.
Today we have $39 million under contract or in the letter of intent stage and we feel good about closing on these centers.
We'll remain disciplined looking for opportunities that are accretive to shareholders.
Our efforts to recycle the secondary properties which make up about 10% of the company's NOI is moving forward quickly.
We'll have about $400 million of those assets on the market in May.
We're looking forward to the improved operating measures this reconfigured portfolio will produce.
Finally we're excited about the ICSC ReCon Convention coming up in Las Vegas.
Our leasing team continues to finalize appointments with retailers.
The last I heard we scheduled somewhere around 600 meetings.
There's a lot of buzz around expanded store count so we're expecting to convert these meetings into renewals and new leases in the months and quarters ahead.
The operating environment continues to get better and Weingarten is in a position to take advantage of this improvement.
Drew I think you have some closing comments.
Thanks Johnny.
Weingarten has been very diligent over the last several years to focus on what we do best and that is operate our portfolio.
We like the stability of supermarkets and value retailers that anchor our shopping centers.
We're very optimistic about our future.
While there are some bumps in our recovery to 95-plus percent occupancy we have great assets with strong demographics.
We've enhanced our acquisition capabilities by revamping our resources in the field.
Through the downturn we've maintained the most talented and experienced members of our development team.
We feel that market fundamentals are moving in the right direction to allow our disposition team to achieve our accelerated recycling capital program.
With the people processes and platforms we have in place our commitment to the strategy laid out at our Analyst Day we will ensure that we create significant shareholder value over the next five years and beyond.
Thanks so much for your interest in Weingarten.
And we're now very happy to take your questions.
Operator we'd be happy to take questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt from Bank of America.
It seems despite the really strong same-store sales for the first four months of the year we're constantly being cautioned that the headwinds from higher gas prices food inflation and even higher cotton prices could slow same-store sales.
I just wonder in your discussion with your tenants how are they looking at the second of the year and just what your views on that topic? Craig I definitely agree with you.
Our retailers are very concerned about these prices.
It appears that they have been able to pass on a significant portion of these prices and maintain margin.
I think the current idea is consumers do not believe $4 gas prices are going to continue and are anticipating some reduction in that and certainly haven't been as shocked as they were several years ago.
We definitely are concerned about the other commodity price increases but again so far retailers told us and this is somewhat anecdotal that they have been able to pass those prices on.
But do you think it's possible the first 4 months could -- that trend continue for the rest of the year? Or are you sort of us planning for a somewhat slowdown in the pace of sales? You know I hope that the pace goes up.
I anticipate if there are further increases they will be relatively modest as compared to what we've seen certainly in April.
And I think you can chalk April up to the fact that Easter moved into April from March a year ago and I think that's going to be a big piece of it.
In thinking that the two months combined it still averages over 5% same-store gain.
It is quite impressive and I think what you are seeing is some price increases being passed on.
Your next question comes from the line Ki Kim from Macquarie.
I noticed that your development yields increased slightly this quarter over last quarter.
And I know the mix is slightly different.
You had one new property but I don't think that property alone probably move the yield and stuff.
Could you give a little more commentary? I think most of that has to do with the Sheridan project where there are a couple of other things that were moving it but the majority of the difference has to do with the closing of the financing of Sheridan and how we accounted for that at the real estate versus at the bond level.
So probably more than half of that difference the increase in the yield is due to the finalization of the Sheridan financing.
But as Robert mentioned we are seeing some nice leasing activity at Ridgeway some improvements there and some additions there as well as the addition of some space at 300 West.
And as we talked about at the Analyst Day we do have a fair amount of work in our pipeline that is being added in at better returns.
So it's not huge but there are definitely some positive signs there.
I think Regency just mentioned that the leasing done in April or what they're working on seems pretty strong.
Have you seen a similar trend? April is about where it was a year ago.
I don't see that it's exceptionally strong or weak.
We're pleased with what we've seen so far in the month.
Your next question comes from the line of David Wigginton from DISCERN.
Johnny can you maybe just talk a little bit more with respect to what drove the negative spread on the new leases in the quarter? I will tell you I think I tried to address that a little bit in my comments.
I think we are being very aggressive on leases that I can't -- that we can make one or two years or leases that'll have some really significant increases.
I don't know if you would call that a concession or not; maybe you would.
But if I can lease a space and get significantly less rent for the first six months and then really bump the rent up 20% or 30% after that I'm probably going to do that right now.
And I'm willing to accept that reduction in the rent increases because I think when that lease rolls two years from now I'm going to be in a much better negotiating position with that tenant.
A they've already committed capital to the space and they're more likely to renew and I'm going to be in a much better negotiating position.
And that's really what I see happening on the new leases that -- pretty much across the board there was not a single lease that moved it.
Sure there were two or three that were the lowest.
And if I take those out it's at minus 8% but that's not significant.
What percentage of the mix is the shorter-term leases with the built-in step-ups? I don't have that specific member with me but it would probably be 40% in terms of the square footage because you still had 5 larger leases done during the quarter.
I'd say around there.
Are you doing similar deals on renewals or is this strictly for new leases? We've shown I think much better pricing power on the renewals.
Renewals were up 1% and I feel really good that renewals were not really having to do that.
What is your small shop occupancy right now? In the quarter? I think it's 85% of spaces that are under 10 000 square feet.
And where does that need to get to I guess achieve your 95% target? Around 90%.
85% -- the small space is under 10 000 square feet account for about 38% of the overall retail space.
Spaces that are over 10 000 square feet are almost 63% of the overall retail space and today it's around 97% leased.
Okay in order to get that 95% target that's predominantly going to be a small shop space that's got to be leased up then? Yes absolutely.
That's where we have the opportunity and that's where we're focused.
With respect to the new leases would you have an idea what the breakout was between say spaces less than 10 000 feet and greater than 10 000 feet in the quarter? Greater than 10 000 square feet was about 13% down and less than 10 000 square feet was around 9.8% roughly.
What was the -- do you know what the breakout was? Meaning what percentage of the new leases signed in the quarter were anchors versus small shops? Roughly 78 000 square feet were big boxes and 137 000 square feet were under 10 000 square feet.
Your next question comes from the line of Nathan Isbee from Stifel Nicolaus.
Just thinking about your $600 million of assets that you've targeted for sale how much of that plan is dependent on cap rates staying relatively stable? Or are you committed to selling that even if cap rates do back up or you don't hit targeted pricing? I certainly think it will be more advantageous if cap rates stay stable.
We are committed to sell those 65 properties.
They're just not part of your -- the future Weingarten? That's correct.
Can you just give us a little more color on the Seattle acquisition? It seems like -- I know there's a story there but it was a pretty aggressive cap rate.
It's really a great story.
We have a supermarket whose lease expires in two years and we've got Wal-Mart and another Safeway kind of competing for the space.
We have the opportunity maybe to sell off part of it and go vertical.
So there's a lot of things we can look at.
We have I think around 7.2% 3-year out on it but it could be as much as 9.5%.
So for the quality of real estate that this is we think that's a great investment.
It's going to actually be quite a lot of fun to work on.
Your next question comes from the line of Laura Clark from Green Street Advisors..
In your Investor Day presentation you gave us your internal NAV estimate of 29.10%.
At the current discount to today's share price does it make sense for you to buy back your stock?.
When we look at our overall balance sheet and everything it's not something that's on our radar screen today.
It's something as we go forward with the disposition plan we would certainly consider in light of alternatives to reinvest the capital.
Depends where cap rates are on other acquisitions development et cetera.
So it's not any immediate-term future but might be out there in the more distant future.
Your next question comes from the line of Carol Kemple  from Hilliard Lyons.
At this point how many dispositions do you all have under contract or letter of intent? In numbers wise I think it's probably 7 or 8.
Dollars wise it's probably less than $50 million.
And are you also comfortable with your plan that you put in the first and fourth quarter press releases of doing $75 million to $125 million this year? We are reconfirming that guidance.
It's certainly going to be quite a bit of work and obviously at this point it's going to be more back-end loaded.
But yes we've affirmed that.
We're also with the accelerated plan that we talked about at the Analyst Day diligently working.
So I think there's a distinct possibility of overperforming that plan and selling more than that.
You were talking about dispositions right? Yes that's what I was concerned about since you all had your new capital your recycling plan if it would possibly be more than that number.
We are working diligently to get it to be more than that number.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Moore from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Following up on that last question these $400 million or so are the assets that you want to put that into the market would this be sort of a portfolio concept do you think? Or are these one offs in each case? Rich we're pursuing parallel tracks.
We will have one portfolio on the market and we will also have several individual assets on the market.
Some of the assets do lend themselves to a portfolio and others we feel like probably a local buyer is going to be our best bet.
So we're moving it both ways.
And it's about half and half in terms of $400 million.
LLC</strong> So the portfolio could be 100 or more in size? Yes.
LLC</strong> Steve on the recovery ratio at least the way we're calculating it it looked like it was down sharply.
Is there anything special going on in there? No Rich I think you had a little bit from occupancy drop that we realized during the quarter in Q1.
And also I think we had year end cleanup and a little bit of stuff that had to be written off from prior years.
LLC</strong> So we've bounced back to where we were pretty much? I think that's it.
LLC</strong> And then the last thing on Sheridan the reissuance of the bonds that's going to happen is that right? I mean we have a timeframe for that now I guess.
And that is something that's certain at this point? A little more certain than that Rich because the transaction's closed.
The bonds are sold.
It's all done.
We're pretty certain of that one.
Your next question comes from the line of Omotayo Okusanya from Jefferies &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
The sale of the industrial asset was this item just one-off opportunistic opportunity this quarter? Or should we be thinking about this more as a strategic review of the industrial portfolio and possibly doing more by way of dispositions in that category? They were opportunistic sales to users that very much made sense to us and we took advantage of that  opportunity.
Inc.</strong> And then just the disclosure you provided on the impact and exported to recently bankrupt retailers if I look up that information for a lot of the stuff that's relatively unknown what happens with those assets? Could you give us a sense of what you're thinking may happen? I think what you're asking is what we think is going to happen with the bankruptcies that we've listed on Page 45 in the supplemental? Inc.</strong> Correct.
Certain parts of it.
I can give you a really good idea there.
I think what I said earlier was that we have 16 Blockbusters remaining.
Four of those have been affirmed and they are looking at the 12 others and it looks like in my opinion they'll terminate most of those 12.
Borders has closed one of its stores with us.
They have 5 remaining.
I'm sorry they had 5 they closed 1 they have 4 more remaining.
And I think they'll keep those stores.
And Ultimate Electronics has closed all 3.
Inc.</strong> And then with the acquisition volumes slowing during the quarter just last question.
Could you just give us a sense of whether that's just more of pricing getting very competitive in the market so a good sense of whether that could pick up later on in the year? Yes I would definitely say pricing is competitive.
Most of the quality shopping centers that we're looking at there may be 10 15 20 buyers that are qualified that are making offers on the property.
And we're just going to try to remain diligent and look for properties that are accretive to the shareholders and improve the overall quality of the portfolio.
It is a challenge but we are out in the market and looking at everything that we can.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller from JPMorgan.
I want to go back to the development or not the development excuse me the asset sales for a minute.
And just to get a sense could the timing of this be accelerated? Because I guess Drew in your opening comments you talked about the $600 million of sales over the next few years.
I know at the Investor Day I think it was -- you're marked primarily '12 but '11 and '12.
then it seems like you have about $400 million that's getting ready to hit the market.
So do you think this could be even more front-end loaded? Yes as I was attempting to respond to a question before we're comfortable with our disposition guidance for '11 but it's certainly a possibility we could overperform that and sell more in 2011.
It's our expectation that it would be so weighted towards the end of the year it would not have a substantial impact on 2011.
It is a lot of small transactions as Johnny mentioned and also some portfolios.
So it's pretty hard thing to forecast but it is something that we feel the time is right.
We think that cap rates are narrowing the debt markets are available.
These are good properties as Johnny said and in some cases in some smaller towns that lend themselves to local buyers.
So it's our forecast and belief and expectation that we can get it done and it could happen towards the end of this year.
And I may add one thing to that.
As Drew said earlier that we are not planning to fire sale these assets.
And we're going to put $400 million on the market for sale it's unlikely that we will sell $400 million in our first try.
And the reason we put $400 million is so we can say no if we don't like the price.
This is a process that's going to take a couple of years and we do not feel compelled to do it all in the first six months or even one year.
So it's going to be a lot of effort to do it but I think it's the best way to end up selling all these assets.
And secondly I know this was touched on the Investor Day but can you walk through and put some bigger picture numbers around that? But if you're selling say $600 million at a 200 to 300 basis point negative spread it's an FFO hit of anywhere from let's call it $12 million to $18 million.
I know you said your internal growth is probably up 4% or 4.5% so maybe that kind of get you to 15% to 20%.
I mean how does that stuff net out to the comments of 2012 and 2013 having above-average FFO growth compared to the out years in 2013 2014? Mike I would tell you we don't have enough time on the call to go through all the intricacies of that and I'm willing to offline walk you through that.
But on a global basis we have obviously modeled out the acquisitions so that they don't have happen all at the beginning of the year.
So you have some dilution effect that comes in as we layer the dispositions in as well as the balance of the program.
Because as we mentioned on April 14 at Investor Day it also includes the rest of the assumptions of the company including the payoff of debt and the refinancing of some of our financings and so forth.
So it all rolls through but again in terms of going through the specifics I can walk with you offline.
Your next question comes from the line of Quentin Velleley from Citigroup.
Just a question on occupancy.
With the mid-Atlantic region and I apologize if I missed this earlier but you had -- the signed basis dropped 420 basis points and the commenced 330 basis points.
Sequentially I'm just wondering what drove that.
Yes Quentin that was the last couple of calls we've mentioned that we were expecting a home improvement store that's 130 000 square feet and a bookstore that was approximately 40 000 square feet to close.
Two of those or the both of those happen to be in Atlanta.
So the Midwest occupancy dropped 187 000 square feet.
170 000 square feet of that were those two stores.
With the 5% same-store and OI number the next year that you put out at the Investor Day I'm just curious what your expectation is with the industrial portfolio for 2012? The industrial portfolio is as we said in the prepared remarks it's obviously very dependent on the economy.
Industrial is much more of a commodity space and the spaces are much less distinguishable.
Our general economic forecast is modest improvement.
And I think both of those words are important: Modest but improvement.
We don't see a roaring recovery.
So consistent with that we do see improvements in the industrial occupancy through the rest of this year and the next.
And as I tried to outline at the Investor Day presentation I think it's especially important in industrial because it is so much of a commodity that the basic price appreciation of all of the things that go into industrial space: concrete steel asphalt et cetera has been huge so there's no new space being built.
And as the space is absorbed the ability to increase rents is going to be very dramatic and the leases are certainly a lot shorter.
So we think there's some very good opportunities industrial as the economy slowly recovers over the next few years.
Your next question comes from the line of from Ben Yang from Keefe Bruyette Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I apologize if you have mentioned this in the past but have you identified the 65 properties that you intend to sell on the $600 million that obviously a lot of questions or being asked on? We haven't identified each of the assets.
We did in the investor presentation indicate the location of all of these assets and that's on our website.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Ki Kim from Macquarie.
Just to follow up.
Could you give -- is there a 2011 guidance that includes refinancing your 2011 bonds that are coming due that are at 7% interest? Yes that is included in the 2011 business plan.
What are you assuming that you'll refinance that at? The refinancing of debt assumptions for the '11 business plan is 7%.
But that's still high.
In the 2011 business plan it's 6% excuse me.
Is that where your cost capital is for debt? 6%? No we can issue inside of 6% today.
We're somewhere around -- for 10 years we're some around 200 over for a 10-year piece of paper today.
It's likely that we'll see some more savings from that.
From a practical standpoint.
If in fact we refinance that with long-term debt that is correct.
As I kind of mentioned that on Investor Day we'll be a wait and see.
Obviously we have a lot of variables.
We don't know whether or not we'll get the convertible bonds put back to us number one.
Number two with the conversations that we've had this morning relative to the disposition program how quickly some of those transactions come to fruition.
Also what opportunities we have in acquisitions as well.
So we'll just have to wait and see.
The revolver we have lots of capacity we can -- and currently we're sitting on about 8% floating rate debt as opposed to fixed.
So we have lots of opportunity and flexibility relative to how we finance those maturities that come due in the summer.
Just a simple question.
If so the $400 million that you're looking to sell I think if I remember correctly in Investor Day you said the total dissolution package you're expecting an 8% cap rate -- two parts so is that that's still the case? And second if a buyer like Blackstone came and decide to pay or offer to pay 8% for the $400 million would that be a done deal? All else equal.
You know it'd be difficult but there are a lot of other pieces that go along with a price like that.
But yes I think that's about what they're worth.
And if somebody said they wanted to buy them I'd sell them.
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Yang from Keefe Bruyette Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I'm sorry if you've addressed this one as well but regarding the 65 properties that you intend to sell have you given any guidepost in terms of impairment charges that might come as you go through that process? No we don't.
We obviously have just put in those assets on the market.
And our policy is until we have a transaction that has hard money on it we do not take that impairment.
So don't really have indication yet exactly where those transactions may fall out.
You might keep in mind that most of these assets are older assets that we've owned for a long time.
We're not -- certainly there may be some impairments that we're certainly not anticipating that would be significant.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> So pretty modest and probably not a consideration to kind of slow this disposition process I guess.
No that's correct.
There are no further questions in queue at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenters for any closing remarks.
Well thank you very much.
I know we'll see a number of you at the upcoming ICSC meeting.
And I'm sure at May Reed [ph] after that.
We very much appreciate your interest in Weingarten and thank you so much for your participation in the call.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Steve and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Weingarten Realty Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Kristin Horn Director of Investor Relations.
Good afternoon and welcome to our second quarter 2011 conference call.
Joining me today is Drew Alexander President and CEO; Stanford Alexander Chairman; Johnny Hendrix Executive Vice President and COO; Steve Richter Executive Vice President and CFO; Robert Smith Senior Vice President; and Joe Shafer Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
As a reminder certain statements made during the course of this call are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
More information about these factors is contained in the company's SEC filings.
Also during this conference call management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as FFO or funds from operations which we believe help analysts and investors to better understand Weingarten's operating results.
Reconciliations to this non-GAAP financial measure is available in our supplemental information packet located under the Investor Relations tab of our website.
I would also like to request that callers observe a 2-question limit during the Q&amp;A portion of our call in order to give everyone a chance to participate.
If you have additional questions please rejoin the queue.
I will now turn the call over to Drew Alexander.
Thank you Kristin and thanks to all of you for joining our call.
I'm pleased to announce the results of another solid quarter.
We remain focused on continued improvement in our operating properties and our results for the quarter are reflective of this effort.
While the economic recovery is moving slower than all of us would like we're pleased with a steady albeit modest progress we're achieving.
We discussed in our last call the tremendous job we've done in leasing our available big-box space which now stands at 96% occupancy.
We likewise indicated that the key to continued occupancy improvement was to lease small shop space.
I'm pleased to announce that we've made real progress in this area during the second quarter increasing our small shop occupancy by 120 basis points to 86.3%.
We are hopeful that this trend will continue but we realize that the economic recovery remains fragile and inconsistent.
Leasing velocity was strong in Q2 and the fallout of small shop tenants continued to decline.
So both contributed to our improved occupancy.
We're seeing this across the portfolio though some regions bear specific mention.
Florida has been a strong performing region.
Florida employment trends have been positive slightly outperforming the national average contributing to our occupancy improvement.
Our California portfolio has been a top contributor.
Retail selling of property NOI in California in Q2 is a positive 4.5% due primarily to an increase of over 200 basis points in commenced occupancy since the second quarter of 2010.
While the collapse of the residential housing market had a devastating effect on the state's economy the quality of our California properties in high barrier-to-entry markets has fueled this strong rebound.
Those of you who attended our Analyst Day in April or listened to our first quarter call are aware that we outlined a new strategic plan.
Most significantly we announced the planned disposition of $600 million of assets from our secondary portfolio and an improvement in Same Property NOI to a forecasted 5% in 2012.
As to the improvement in NOI with 3.5 months having passed since Analyst Day we still believe this forecast is realistic.
Most of this will come from leases that are signed but not yet commenced.
Another large contributor is contractual rent steps.
We estimate 75% of the forecasted Same Property NOI increase is complete.
With continued modest improvement in the economy we believe the positive momentum in small shop leasing and fallout will allow us to generate the remainder of the increase.
As to our accelerated disposition effort we currently have over $400 million of assets in the market and have significant interest on a large number of them.
Since April we've closed on 2 sales totaling $29 million one in Rockwall Texas and the other in Kansas City Kansas our last property in that MSA.
Since our Analyst Day we've made significant progress in the execution of our new strategy.
As mentioned we announced this effort in mid-April started putting packages together in May and are now marketing the properties.
We're committed and focused however as always we remain patient and disciplined in our approach.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve to discuss our financial results.
Thanks Drew.
Weingarten reported funds from operation or FFO per share of $0.30 for the second quarter of 2011.
Recurring FFO was $52.5 million or $0.44 per diluted share for the quarter.
Reported FFO was adjusted for $0.18 per share of impairment a $0.03 per share gain on the acquisition of a partner's interest in a shopping center and $0.01 per share of proceeds from a litigation settlement in arriving at recurring FFO.
All of these details are outlined on Page 5 of our supplemental package.
As we discussed in our May 5 conference call the company realized an impairment loss during the second quarter on the Sheridan financing transaction of $0.15 per share.
In addition to Sheridan we recorded an impairment of $0.03 related to the sales Drew mentioned in Rockwall Texas in Kansas City and a tract of land under contract for sale in North Carolina.
Also during the quarter we acquired our partners' 50% interest in Palm Coast Landing a property we developed in Palm Coast Florida.
As a result of this acquisition we recorded a $4.6 million gain which essentially represents the realization of our preferred equity return in the development.
We were required under GAAP to recognize the gain under consolidation of this entity.
Moving to the balance sheet.
Subsequent to quarter end we paid off the remaining $118 million of our 7% bonds.
On Monday we repaid $77 million of the $131 million of the 3.95% convertible debentures which were put back to us by the holders in accordance with the agreement leaving us with the balance of $54 million.
The remaining bonds can be called by us at any time.
As of today we have only $44 million of remaining maturities this year so the balance sheet remains in great shape.
Given the improvements we have seen in the last year or so in the credit markets we have begun the early renewal of our $500 million revolving credit facility.
We anticipate extending the term as well as lowering our borrowing spread and facility fees.
Additionally we are also working on a 1-year term loan that will provide some additional capacity allowing us to stay short term with this debt which provides future flexibility in utilizing the proceeds as we execute the accelerated disposition program.
During the second quarter Standard &amp; Poor's revised its outlook on WRI to stable from negative and affirmed our BBB credit rating.
In addition Moody's affirm its rating of Baa2 with a stable outlook.
We are pleased with the improvements in our outlook from S&amp;P and believe this is a reflection of the strength of our balance sheet and the deleveraging that will occur with the accelerated disposition strategy.
I would like to end my prepared remarks with reiterating our 2011 guidance.
We continue to expect recurring FFO to be in the range of $1.72 to $1.82 per share.
Same Property NOI should be about flat to positive 1%.
We project occupancy to be about the same as we saw at the end of the second quarter to slightly up by year end.
And finally we believe growth and retail rents will be in the flat to negative 4% range.
On the acquisition side things have been very competitive.
Year-to-date the company has closed $68 million of deals and has only one shopping center for $12 million currently in negotiations.
Weingarten has consistently said that we would be patient while we have participated in the processes for many of the better quality assets that have come to market we have not seen pricing at levels that provide our shareholders adequate risk-adjusted returns.
We are looking to invest in assets within major metropolitan markets inside our existing footprint with above average income and population density.
Today we're seeing good quality supermarket anchor shopping centers selling at cap rates in the 5.75%  to 6.75% range.
It also appears that some of the underwriting standards are eroding as investors are scrambling to buy good product.
If the pace we have experienced here today continues we do not anticipate meeting our full year 2011 acquisition guidance.
However there's always seems to be more on the market towards the end of the year so it's possible that we can hit the bottom end of our range of $125 million to $175 million but it could be closer to $100 million for the year.
Our original disposition guidance was $75 million to $125 million for 2011.
Year-to-date we have sold $46 million of assets and currently have $25 million under negotiations for letters of intent.
As Drew mentioned with our accelerated disposition program we have $400 million of assets that are in the market today.
We do not anticipate -- excuse me we do anticipate exceeding our disposition goal but it is difficult at this time to determine by exactly how much.
Given our disciplined approach we will not buy or sell these assets and therefore do not anticipate selling all these properties this year.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Robert to discuss development.
Thanks Steve.
We continue to make progress on our projects under development and in our continual efforts to provide more useful information to investors you will notice that we have improved the content on Page 10 of our supplemental package to include new development completions to date as well as an estimated completions for future periods with projected ranges of returns at NOI on those completions.
We believe this additional information will provide greater clarity in estimating future revenue streams from our development program.
During the second quarter you will also notice that we added a new project and a new phase of an existing project to our development pipeline.
I'll highlight those additions in a moment but first I wanted to mention that the occupancy on the 10 projects that were under development as of the end of the first quarter increased almost 3% from just under 69% to a little over 71% during the second quarter.
This is a positive indication to us that development lease up is improving and we are encouraged by this progress.
In addition we have seen positive developments at several centers of late.
At 300 West in Salt Lake City the shops adjacent to Target are almost 90% leased and will come online during the third quarter of this year.
At our Decatur development in Las Vegas WinCo has started its site work and is forecasting to open its store during the second quarter of 2012.
This has sparked a lot of interest from Pad and junior anchor retailers.
Our most significant progress has been at our development in Tomball a suburb of Houston.
At the Analyst Day in April we announced the sale of attractive land at Kohl's which together with the Academy Sports and Outdoors that is already open has generated tremendous interest in this project.
In fact in June we finalized leases with Marshalls Ross and Community Bank which has triggered the aforementioned new phase that we are tracking in our development pipeline.
With Marshalls scheduled to open before the holidays and Ross scheduled to open in the second quarter of 2012 we anticipate the existing small shop space to be the beneficiary of increased leasing activity.
Also in the second quarter as I alluded to earlier we closed on a new project.
A Kroger shadow-anchored shopping center development in suburban Atlanta called the Chula  [ph] market.
Kroger actually brought this opportunity to us which is a great indication of the strength of our relationship with this important customer.
Construction leasing has commenced and we anticipate stabilization in late 2013.
I believe the progress described on these specific projects exemplifies the long-term value created through the development process.
Now I will turn the call over to Johnny Hendrix to discuss operations.
Thanks Robert.
Good afternoon everyone.
We continue to move toward a better operating environment.
Our major retailers supermarkets and discount ready-to-wear stores are still healthy and seeing good increases in sales and profits.
While economic news over the last few days has been disappointing the necessity and value-oriented retailers which dominate our portfolio have proven they can successfully operate in this environment.
We've recently signed or negotiating leases with small space users like AT&amp;T Gigi's Grill Have it Burger and Rue 21 along with large users like HomeGoods Petsmart Dick's Saks 5th OFF [Saks OFF 5th] Dollar Tree Alta [ph] and Cost Plus.
We're optimistic that retailers still have an appetite for growth which will translate into positive operating metrics for us.
During the quarter we generated Same Property NOI increase of 0.2% for our retail portfolio.
While this is modest it is the fifth consecutive quarter of positive growth improvement in commenced occupancy and small shop fallouts in California and South Texas were the primary drivers of this increase.
Our retail reg growth was a negative 0.9%.
While we continue to see good leverage with renewals which were up 2.7% reg growth for new leases was down 8%.
As I mentioned on the last call we've been very aggressive signing short-term leases where we can increase rents in the next few years and leases with built in rent steps.
So far this year 80% of our shop leases have rent steps built in to the lease.
These steps don't show up in the rent growth we report but they do have tremendous economic impact.
We expect rent step increases for our entire portfolio to be $3.4 million in 2012.
This is another reason we're confident in the 2012 Same Property NOI projections Drew mentioned earlier.
Our aggressive leasing is paying off.
The company produced an increase in occupancy of 30 basis points over last quarter.
The most notable headline is the quarter-over-quarter increase of 120 basis points in occupancy of retail spaces under 10 000 square feet from 85.1% to 86.3%.
It's very encouraging this improvement came from both leasing production for small spaces as well as reduced fallout for spaces under 10 000 square feet.
During the second quarter we leased 177 retail spaces under 10 000 square feet.
This represents the most shop spaces we've leased during any quarter over the last 4 years.
Overall the company leased 212 spaces for $9 million really an outstanding quarter.
We saw a good production from all of geographic regions but really an exceptional improvement in Florida which is refreshing.
Florida represents only 15% of our retail portfolio and during the quarter produced close to 30% of the leasing production.
As I mentioned earlier we also saw a significant improvement in shop fallout during the quarter.
We lost 106 tenants under 10 000 square feet.
The fewest shop space fallouts of any quarter since 2006 and 25% fewer than we've averaged over the previous 3 years.
We still have room for improvement with our fall out but I am pleased things are getting better.
I'd like to touch briefly on our industrial portfolio.
Occupancy ended the quarter 88% up from 87% last quarter and up from 86% a year earlier.
Same Property NOI today is a negative 2.5%.
This is primarily a result of some bad debt and new leases that have not commenced.
Overall the industrial group's performance is in line with the industrial markets where we operate.
Clearly the industrial sector continues to struggle.
However we believe it has bottomed out and that we can make progress going forward.
It's important to note the industrial sector performance is more closely correlated to the economic recovery than our retail business.
So a lot will depend on how the recovery progresses.
We do have more clarity as to the future of Borders and Blockbuster.
Specific details of our exposure to these retailers are outlined on Page 45 of the supplemental.
Borders has announced a plan to liquidate the company by September 30 at which time they will close all their remaining stores.
We have 3 Borders and 1 Waldenbooks and we have good interest in all these locations from several retailers so we feel comfortable that within a reasonable period of time we will have re-leased these locations.
We also understand Blockbuster's future a little better.
Blockbuster closed 9 locations with us during the quarter.
We anticipated these closures and have already signed leases for 5 of these spaces and are negotiating letters of intent on 2 more.
This network is the successor to Blockbuster and we expect they will keep most of the remaining leases.
We are negotiating with various agreements for some of the remaining 16 leases to stay short term and modify economics.
We'll have the right to terminate and modify leases early when we find replacement tenants.
The closing of the remaining Blockbuster and Border stores will not have a significant impact on net operating income in 2011 and is built into any future projections we have historically discussed with you.
We do not currently have any unapproved unreserved money outstanding from either tenant so no bad debt will result from future lease terminations.
In summary we're making steady progress.
This progress does sometimes feel fragile but we continue to move forward.
We've increased occupancy we've increased retail Same Property NOI for 5 consecutive quarters.
We've increased shop leasing and shop fallout is getting better.
We're also moving forward -- looking forward to additional improvement of our operating metrics as we continue to execute our accelerated disposition program.
And with that I'll turn it back to Drew.
Thanks Johnny.
As we move into the second half of the year we anticipate the economic recovery will continue its sawtooth pattern.
Overall our economic forecast is for a continued recovery although a very modest one.
Given the value nature of our retailers our great supermarkets and our strong locations we're confident we will continue to produce improvements in operating results.
Big-box demand continues to be strong and small shop absorption is increasing.
Leases signed in 2010 are beginning to commence in the financial impact of these signings will be realized in 2012 hence our confidence in strong Same Property NOI growth in 2012.
With limited new supply and good quality centers demand for our space has improved.
We're progressing nicely on property sales and New Development leasing and all these factors point to increased future profitability thanks to all the Weingarten associates that worked so hard to achieve these results and thanks to all of you for joining the call today and for your continued interest in Weingarten.
Steve we'd be happy to take questions now.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes the line of Ki Bin Kim from Macquarie.
Going over your kind of 2012 soft guidance versus 5% same store NOI growth can you just kind of walk through that assumption again and the various components of it of that 5%? As we've mentioned this was a forecast that we made at a very high level at the Analyst Day in April.
It is something that we remain comfortable with subject to the fact that we don't think the economy is going into a double dip.
As I said mostly driven by the fact that we have an unusually large number of big-box leases that we've signed but we haven't commenced.
The other bigger contributor to that is the steps that I talked about and then the shop leasing that we've just done and the fact that it appears to us that things are getting better on the shop front.
I mean Steve is there anything else you could add.
Yes the only other thing that I would add is we do have New Development NOI that will come on during next year as well.
But that's not part of same-store pool is it? No it is not.
The New Development properties are not part of the same-store pool.
And so can you give us a sense of timing.
It seems like there's about almost a 300 basis point gap between signed and commenced and that has been pretty steady for the past 5 quarters at least.
When does that start narrowing and what is the structural gap from a historical standpoint? Most of that is a result of the leasing that we did last year.
We have about 900 000 square feet of space inside of that signed and not commenced.
We expect around 800 000 square feet to commence over the next 6 months because most of the retailers are focused on the holiday season.
So a lot of them will be opening in October right before Thanksgiving.
If you were to put that in a model I would probably just put it out evenly over the next 6 months or have it commenced in the next 6 months.
That actually is somewhere around $1 million a month in extra revenue on an annualized basis so we do have a big slug of that coming in the next 6 months.
Okay.
And I'm just trying to go through your numbers on the industrial same-store NOI decline especially in light of increased occupancy could you give us a break out in terms of like how much was driven -- how much of that was driven by bad debt expense? The 5% decline.
I don't have the specific numbers in front of me.
That's the big chunk of it and the fact as I said a lot of the occupancy we don't have the economic benefit of yet those leases haven't commenced.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Merrill Lynch.
When I look at the regional mall performance on same-store NOI and the strips I mean the malls have done somewhat better.
And I'm thinking is it the small shop space that has been holding the companies in the strip space with a little bit more modest same-store NOI growth? I think it's that as well as fact that the majority of the malls they don't own the anchors.
So when they get an improvement in their shops it's moving the needle a lot more.
Anchored shopping centers are great and provide for more economic stability but you can't move things up in an up cycle as quickly.
But my sense is that you're thinking that the improvement you showed in the second quarter will continue in the third and fourth quarter? We think so.
And again I want to attempt to be as clear as I can and we're not economists.
Our best guess is that the recovery continues very modestly but the recovery continues.
I think our retailers plan long term.
The mood was certainly better in May at ICSC than it has been over the last few weeks I would say in terms of the economic news.
So our forecast is that things continue to improve albeit very modestly.
Okay.
And then just looking at your last -- release in over the last 6 quarters I've seen you've been most active in front of the off-price area TJX and Ross Stores and then Dollar Tree it has grown from 29 stores to in the 40s.
I'm just wondering is there a geographical orientation to the dollar store pick up or is that evenly spread out to your portfolio? Craig it is very evenly spread throughout the portfolio.
Dollar Tree has I think open to buy somewhere around 300 stores so they have been very aggressive across the country leasing space.
And most of our portfolio is dominated by discount ready-to-wear at supermarkets which do lend themselves to be good co-tenants with Dollar Tree.
Your next question comes the line of Laura Clark with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.</strong> While you're gaining ground from an occupancy standpoint releasing spreads continue to be weak.
Is it fair to say that your focus on leasing today is on occupancy and not growing or pushing rent? I think that's a decision that -- I think I said this before it's typically made on a space-by-space basis most of those decisions are made at a regional level by the folks who are in the parking lot.
But I would tell you that that is definitely a trend that we are going to lease the space even if we lease it for a little bit less right now.
There are certainly exceptions and we have shopping centers that have wonderful occupancy today maybe 1 or 2 spaces available.
And those spaces we will hold out but in centers where we have 3 or 4 spaces available we are moving toward leasing the space as opposed to holding out for rent.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then if you -- what was the releasing spreads for new leases be if you included your noncomparable leases in that number? I don't have that number Laura.
If you wanted me to get back with you I will.
Inc.</strong> Yes that will be great.
I'm not sure even how we get that number but we can talk about that later.
Your next question comes the line of Jeffrey Donnelly from Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Johnny you had some success in Q2 just boosting up small shop occupancy.
And I was curious what is driving that pick up in your view.
Is that sort of seasonal gains and shoe leather or is it a different focus on maybe service tenants and -- or it could be a sign that credit availability is picking up for retailers.
My guess is is that it's a little bit of all of the above.
Certainly I want to give credit to our associates who are doing a wonderful job leasing space.
At the same time I do believe there is a little bit more credit available when I think a lot of what we've done with shop space is with franchisees and they do seem to be having some credit available from the franchisor.
It's probably a little bit of all of that.
Up until the last couple of days I did feel like the economy was marginally getting better.
I'm not sure of that today.
LLC</strong> And then just a follow-up on disposition.
I think one of the assets that you sold in the quarter marked your exit from I believe it was Kansas City.
Are there many more markets you think you'll end up exiting over the next 12 months and does that provide any -- I guess I'll say -- tangible benefit on the G&amp;A or cost-saving side? Yes there are several markets that we've outlined that we'll probably exit over the next 12 to 24 months mostly up through the central part of the U.S.
And I certainly believe it will generate some cost savings in terms of operations.
LLC</strong> But anything that's particularly material or do you think it would be more kind of minor at the margin? I think it would be more in the margin.
LLC</strong> And then just a last question I guess for Steve.
I'm just curious more on your opinion as we've seen the treasury rates coming pretty meaningfully in the last even 30 days.
I know it might be anecdotal this early on but how much of that compression do you think is transferred to financing rates that you think are available to you or that you've seen? Or do you think spreads are blowing out a little bit to off with that compression and base rate? Jeff that's an interesting question and issue around that because ordinarily or historically one would expect spreads would widen out as treasuries tightened and got down to levels that we're talking about.
And interestingly enough I think they have a little bit but the relationship said differently of 30 days ago I could sell 10-year money at say 200 basis points.
Maybe today it's 205 or 210.
It's not dramatic at all when you look at treasuries have come in probably I don't know 30 basis points 40 basis points in that length of time.
So as of right now and there hasn't been a lot of unsecured debt done in the REIT space but from every indication on the few deals that have been done in talking to bankers it's held.
So as a CFO I guess you'd love to finance in this environment.
Our challenge is just finding opportunities for investment.
Your next question comes from the line of from Tayo Okusanya from Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> My question has basically been answered.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao from Deutsche Bank.
I just had a question on the regional same-store NOI growth breakout.
The total number for retail has been relatively consistent in 0.2% to 0.5% but there's been some pretty big swings period to period in the regions.
And I'm just wondering if you could provide some color on what's really driving that like for instance Western region which would include California's strength this quarter was up quite a bit but then the mountain region was down.
When you show a breakout by region you have a relatively small base and modest amounts of bad debt or a tenant falling out can move the number pretty significantly.
In California specifically it's increased occupancy and very specifically we had redone a Safeway store or renewed a lease where we put Safeway in and took the old the tenant out.
There are a couple of other larger ones.
You will see more of that from California in the coming quarters.
And then when you look at kind of a negative in Florida it was a lot of little things where $250 000 will move the needle.
So it's not anything real specific.
In the mountain region of course you remember ultimate electronics terminated 3 leases with us at the beginning of the quarter and those were all 3 in the mountain regions so of course they felt the impact on that.
Got you that's very helpful.
And just in terms of bridging the 5% for next year versus sort of the 0.2% this quarter and sort of that like you said the low 0.5% or so for the last 3 quarters are a lot of that just coming from those commencements that are signed but are expected over the next 6 months? Yes it's those and leases that have already commenced this year where you'll get the full year effect or those.
You're right you do have a significant amount of it is rent steps but the leases that are still to commence and then the leases that have already commenced but you'll get the full year effect of it.
You still have a good amount of work to do on it.
Okay.
And just one cleanup if you don't mind can I get the lease terminations for the quarter? Sorry if I missed it earlier.
There were a 106 small tenant lease terminations.
No I'm sorry the debt to dollar lease termination fees? I think it was $1.2 million.
Overall if you look at -- I noticed several analysts made a comment in those regarding other income which was really includes lease cancellation income but that was not the unusual fees.
The litigation settlement of $1.6 million was included in the other income that causes that and obviously we backed it out of recurring.
So we think that that's onetime and the balance of it was the lease termination income but we're on budget there but we don't see that as unusual.
Your next question comes from the line of David Wigginton from DISCERN.
Inc</strong> Just Drew I wanted to circle back to your comment on the same-store NOI for next year.
I know you guys have modeled in a modest recovery.
I wonder what kind of sensitivity analysis you've run on that.
And if we do say get back into a recession or economic indicators continue to weaken what -- I mean what type of range do you think your same-store NOI would come in that instance? Again we're in the process now of going through our very detailed budget o f space by space all projects.
So no we haven't in any sophisticated way model it out.
So obviously it's a function of how bad the economy could get.
And as we've tried to be clear that our assumptions our forecast our estimates are based on this extremely modest recovery but avoiding a double dip.
So it is something.
We got into lots of bankruptcies and occupancy dropping tremendously.
It could be a lot worse given the credit profile of our tenants the fact that they survived this long the value nature we think it's pretty unlikely but...
Inc</strong> Right.
Okay.
So maybe it's better to ask this way I know you guys have a lot of defensive tenant base with grocers and discount retailers I think Johnny commented pretty clearly on how well they were able to operate relative to maybe nondiscount type of retailers.
But in the event that things do get worse I mean what type of sensitivity I guess do you envision from on your lease spread occupancy those types of things.
I mean are you -- you commented on occupancy or increasing so tenant fallout has decline and what not but I guess what is the level of sensitivity of the 5% growth based on weaker economic conditions? Again I think it all depends.
The period that we saw in 2008 and '09 with the loss of Circuit City Linens 'n Things and Goody's and Mervyn's was pretty tough and I think the likelihood that something like that gets repeated is pretty small.
The leases that we have signed both the renewals and the shop leases and the anchor tenant leases contractually commit about 75% of the Same Property NOI increases.
So it is something that we feel pretty good about 2012 being better.
I do want to be careful that we don't over focus on this 5%.
And if things end up bad and we end up with achieving 4% I would still consider that a very good thing that we would be pretty happy about.
I think a normalized Same Property NOI improved in an anchored portfolio is 2.5% or 3%.
So we still as we sit here today feel comfortable with the 5%.
It is certainly something that could fluctuate to the downside if we have lots and lots and lots of unanticipated bankruptcies but when we look at the credit profile of the top tenants and the other tenants we think that's pretty unlikely.
Inc</strong> So it is just safe to say that the risk of the downside or you're estimate is basically tenant fallout at this point.
Is that correct? That's correct.
Inc</strong> Okay.
And then on the regional just circling back to the regional performance.
Johnny you mentioned Florida is doing well.
Southern California -- I'm sorry California was doing well the Western region.
I mean is that continued strength.
I mean have you seen that in July and into August so far or is it slowing up at all or is it increasing -- is the momentum increasing? No I feel at -- again what I said earlier I actually changed my script over the last couple of days with the economic news and what's happening in the market.
But honestly on Friday when I left here I felt like it was continuing forward and things were going to get better and I still believe that it's just I think a little tainted with the last couple of days.
Inc</strong> Right.
Is that purely result of the improving economic conditions in those markets? And is that what's driving I guess the lower fallout rate among the small shops in your opinion? Well the average small shop tenant that is under 5 000 square feet with us has an average occupancy of over 10 years.
A lot of them are second and third-generation immigrants and they are going to do whatever they can to stay in business.
Now I honestly think what we've gotten down to is a lot of the tenants who are weak have fallen out and those were stronger and have a better operating model lower cost or better value proposition for other consumers are doing better and continuing to operate.
It does feel like their sales are getting better even the smaller shops and the service tenants.
Inc</strong> Okay.
And so one last question.
So the strength that you're seeing in Florida when does that actually get reflected in your portfolio do you think? Probably towards the end of the year maybe even early next year because a lot of that strength in Florida has really occurred in the last 2 quarters of leasing and generally it takes us around 6 months to get somebody open.
Your next question comes from the line from Michael Mueller from JPMorgan.
I had a question about the year-end occupancy guidance.
I think you said something like similar to Q2 or maybe slightly above.
Were you talking about the lease percentage or the occupancy because I'm just trying to tie that together with I guess all the box leasing coming on that's going to help to drive the 5% next year.
That's occupancy but it's based on leased Michael.
It's leased.
Okay.
So if we're looking at the Q2 occupied percentage of I think 89.6% where do you see that being by year end? We don't focus as much on that.
As johnny mentioned the signed and not commenced leases you have a bunch of that that occurs.
I don't think we have it around on top.
We can get back to you on that.
It will be somewhere around the 100 basis points.
Again we have about 800 000 square feet of space that will commence between now and the end of the year.
Obviously there's some in and out there.
There some fallout that is quite a bit of space to commence between now and then.
And you'll obviously lease some more space between now and then.
Your next question comes line of Rich Moore from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> I know you have or at least had a portfolio that you had for sale as part of your disposition program.
And I'm curious do you still have that for sale and what do you think of the prospects for getting a portfolio sold in this environment? Rich this is Johnny.
We do have a portfolio of 19 shopping centers that's in the market today.
We have not made or had a call for offer on those assets yet.
We anticipate that we will in the next 8 to 10 days and I guess we'll know more then.
We have I don't know somewhere around 400 CAs that have been signed to people that are looking at them.
We have a war room that we can look at the activity and it certainly seems to be pretty significant.
It is possible that we don't sell the portfolio as one single entity and that we break it up a little bit and we'll just have to see what happens when we get the offers in in the next couple of weeks.
LLC</strong> Okay.
But it sounds like Johnny you feel pretty optimistic there's good interest.
Yes I really do.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then on the development side of things guys.
As you look forward do you think there's any -- I know you have a few things going on that are new in the development front.
Do you think there's any real development start type activity coming up over the next say 6 to 12 months? I would say that we expect some Rich.
This is Drew.
I don't think it will be a huge in the grand scheme of things.
We're going to remain disciplined in terms of entitlements and pre-leasing.
It is something that I continue to think has good long-term value for us.
But again it does very much depends upon the overall economy.
We're going to work through the pipeline that we have of lands that we bought back in the more go-go days.
And even in that case are going to be selective about how much we move out.
How quickly the tenants are starting to look at higher rent that would support increased capital but I don't know that they're all the way there in too many cases.
So I think in 2012 their starts will be -- there'll be some but it won't be a big number.
LLC</strong> So Drew even the modest or the -- it sounds like pretty good enthusiastic response by small shop guys as far as not leaving and also adding space doesn't quite gets you to the development front just yet.
We're not back to the rent levels that support a whole lot of new development.
It does make the existing space more valuable.
And I think we will see a time when the tipping point in the old versus new rent spreads but I don't think we're there in too many cases for rent levels either from anchors or shops space to support a lot of new development.
[Operator Instructions] We're not seeing anybody in the queue.
We very much appreciate your interest in things.
Oh I have one more question.
Nate go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Just getting back with year-end occupancy.
You're saying it's going to be flat.
But at the same time you only have about 75% of leasing done to get to the 5% next year.
So how is that going to work.
You just expecting a quick lease up in the beginning of '12? I think it will be flat to up slightly and that's where again -- We have talked about this one in one Nate that we are generally comfortable with the 5% but I want folks to understand it's a very high level of number that we are still comfortable with.
So again if it comes in 4.5% we'd be thrilled.
If it comes in 4% plus we would still be happy.
So we're still comfortable with it.
We're not backing away from it but it isn't something that we have space by space done.
We're in the process of doing those budgets now and we'll probably have some more feel for that around the time of the next call and/or the next [ph] meeting.
So again it's something we're comfortable with but it hasn't been done to the precision that I guess some folks on the call might...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Sure.
But just to clear I mean you still have to do a decent amount of incremental leasing to get there correct? We do have to do some as well and more significantly we can't have the economy turn south on us and start having a lot of increases and fallout.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> No I understand.
I'm just looking -- I'm just thinking from the leasing side if you're going to be at flat between now and year end where you're going to get that additional...
You are correct.
We do have to continue to lease some more space to make the 5%.
When Steve said we expect occupancy to be flat or up a little for the 5% to happen it would have to be up -- occupancy would have to continue to tick up.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn it back for closing remarks.
We thank you very much for your interest.
We are also around if there are other questions and thanks so much for your interest in Weingarten Realty.
Thank you all.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Weingarten Realty Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Matt and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Kristin Horn.
Ms.
Horn you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter 2011 conference call.
Joining me today is Drew Alexander President and CEO; Stanford Alexander Chairman; Johnny Hendrix Executive Vice President and COO; Steve Richter Executive Vice President and CFO; Robert Smith Senior Vice President; and Joe Shafer Senior Vice President and CAO.
As a reminder certain statements made during the course of this call are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
More information about these factors is contained in the company's SEC filings.
Also during the conference call management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as funds from operations or FFO which we believe help analysts and investors better understand Weingarten's operating results.
A reconciliation to this non-GAAP financial measure is available in our supplemental information packet located under the Investor Relations tab of our website.
I would also like to request that callers observe a 2-question limit during the Q&amp;A portion of our call in order to give everyone a chance to participate.
If you have additional questions please rejoin the queue.
I will now turn the call over to Drew Alexander.
Thank you Kristin and thanks to all of you for joining our call.
I'm pleased to announce another quarter of solid operating results.
Last quarter we discussed the fragile and inconsistent economy and today we remain concerned with the strength of the recovery.
Nevertheless we remain focused on continued improvement at our operating properties and our solid operating results for the quarter are reflective of this effort.
We made great progress in increasing total occupancy with a 40 basis point increase over the prior quarter to 91.6%; this  in spite of an additional 77 000 square feet of vacancy due to the Borders bankruptcy.
We also continue to make progress on small shop leasing with a 40 basis point increase in this metric from the prior quarter.
Leasing velocity has remained consistent and the fallout of small shop tenants has declined so both factors contributed to improved occupancy.
In addition we've also taken steps to further enhance our capital structure and liquidity.
As Steve will discuss in greater detail we closed on a $200 million term loan and amended our credit facility both with attractive terms.
Most importantly we extended the term of our credit facility to 4 years with an additional one-year extension at our option ensuring adequate liquidity to handle all near-term debt maturities.
With so much uncertainty in the market today our ability to access capital is extremely important.
As to our accelerated disposition program Johnny will provide the details of our efforts in a little bit but let me just reinforce our focus on our asset recycling initiative we announced at our Investor Day in April.
We are making good progress but experienced some headwinds with the current turmoil in the CMBS  market.
While we won't fire sale these assets we believe we will work through these market conditions and continue to successfully execute our strategy.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve to discuss our financial results.
Thanks Drew.
Weingarten reported funds from operation or FFO per diluted share of $0.01 for the third quarter of 2011.
Recurring FFO was $56.2 million or $0.47 per diluted share for the quarter versus $0.44 for last year resulting in an increase of 6.8%.
Reported FFO was adjusted for $0.44 per share of noncash impairments and $0.02 per share for the write-off of unamortized debt costs resulting from the early extension and renewal of our revolver and arriving at recurring FFO.
All these details are outlined on Page 5 of our supplemental package.
The $0.44 of impairments can be summarized into 3 basic categories: First approximately $0.21 relates to our strategic plan to dispose of lower tier assets.
After specifically identifying potential disposition properties and analyzing current market data we have recognized impairments on properties we believe we are likely to sell over the next couple  years as part of this initiative.
Second we recognized $0.18 per share of impairment on our Land Held for Development.
Our impairment testing includes obtaining new broker opinion of values for land in markets where we believe values may have fallen.
In some cases there may have been recent comparable market transactions or we may have begun negotiations with potential buyers in each case giving us indications that our valuations required a renewed look.
Finally the remaining $0.05 per share of impairment relates primarily to properties within finite life joint ventures where we were required to assume liquidation at the end of the JV's life.
As some of these charges are both in consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures we have included an analysis on Page 45 of the supplemental that identify where these charges reside throughout our financial statements.
We are pleased to announce that we extended and renewed our $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility.
The facility has a 4-year term with a one-year extension at our option.
The rate is LIBOR plus 1.25% which is a decrease of 150 basis points from the previous margin of 2.75%.
We also reduced the facility fee from 50 bps to 25 basis points.
This clearly demonstrates how far the capital markets have recovered since February 2010 when we last renewed the revolver.
This new facility is also a testament to our solid balance sheet and our outstanding relationships with our banking group.
With all of the global turmoil I am quite pleased to have this liquidity committed for the next 4 years.
In August we also closed on a $200 million term loan that allowed us to pay down the revolver thereby providing additional capacity for future capital needs.
This will provide us the flexibility to use the proceeds from our disposition program to pay off the term loan which has a 1-year term.
Like the revolver the spread is 125 basis points over LIBOR but is prepayable at par after 9 months.
With respect to  full year 2011 guidance we are affirming the midpoint of our guidance but narrowing the range on recurring FFO per share to $1.75 to $1.79.
We believe Same Property NOI will come within our guidance range of flat to positive 1% and occupancy as projected will be up slightly by year end.
At this point in the year we don't expect to close any significant new acquisitions before year-end.
Finally on dispositions we do expect to exceed our original guidance and we think we will end the year in the $150 million to $200 million range.
Moving onto 2012.
Our preliminary guidance for recurring FFO is $1.81 to $1.91 per share.
Since we have not concluded our annual budget cycle we will provide more detail next quarter as to the specific assumptions used in this estimate.
However it is important to know that we are assuming $300 million to $400 million of dispositions and a 4% to 5% increase in Same Property NOI which Johnny will address a little later.
Our global assumption for 2012 is a slow mostly flat economy and retail environment pretty much like we've experienced the last quarter or so.
With that I'd now like to turn the call over to Robert Smith to discuss New Development.
Thanks Steve.
Things have been picking up in New Development.
In late September we closed on a 6-acre tract of land to construct a 37 000 square foot Whole Foods in Tampa Florida.
This is an opportunity we sourced for Whole Foods after working with them on their needs in this strategic market and reflects the strength of our relationship with this important customer.
Construction should commence within the next 30 days.
Additionally as discussed at our previous Investor Day presentation we have been working on a development opportunity with a land owner in Arlington Virginia.
We're very close to finalizing joint venture documents for this outstanding 268 000 square foot shopping center anchored by Wegmans one of the most successful supermarket operators on the East Coast.
This project should be our entry into the DC market and is located adjacent to Fort Belvoir an ever-expanding army facility just outside the Beltway.
With nearly 66% of the center pre-leased and an estimated final investment of $67 million we are very excited about this outstanding new opportunity that could commence in the fourth quarter.
Those 2 projects combined with the Kroger shadow-anchored center in Atlanta we announced last quarter represent $80 million of additions to our development pipeline in 2011.
Considering the continued weakness in the economy we are pleased with this activity.
The company also continues to make good progress in leasing its existing New Development projects.
For all developments in the pipeline the comparable quarter-over-quarter increase in occupancy was 340 basis points.
One continuing example of this progress is our development in Tomball a suburb of Houston.
Kohl's had a successful grand opening in late September and Marshalls remains on target to open prior to the holidays.
Combined with a signed lease with Ross this new anchor activity is providing leasing momentum on both phases of this shopping center.
So overall Weingarten's development platform is beginning to show once again the value creation that can be achieved through our strong retailer relationships and a conservative risk-adjusted  program.
And while local merchant developers are effectively out of the market today we have maintained a core group of talented experienced development folks with capital at their disposal and we believe this gives us a real advantage.
Now I will turn the call over to Johnny Hendrix to discuss operations.
Thanks Robert.
Good morning to everyone on the call.
While the equity markets continue to be choppy our Retail operations have remained stable.
We've seen slow but steady improvement and continued to perform within the parameters of the guidance we set out earlier this year.
Clearly the economic recovery we anticipated has been slow to develop and even with news of the last few days we believe it's likely we will continue to see a very slow recovery.
Interestingly we continue to get positive feedback from our major retailers.
Their sales have improved at a rate faster than the overall economy.
We believe this is primarily due to the necessity and value-oriented nature of our shopping centers.
The most recent comp store sales show increases of 5% for Kroger 4.3% for Publix 4% for TJX 5% for Ross and overall Retail sales up 4.6% excluding gas according to the Census Bureau.
Most of the retailers we're talking with still want to expand in spite of the overall concerns about the economy.
Generally we've not seen tenants pulling back on projected store openings and most are maintaining store counts for 2013.
This pullback may happen as retailers boards and management teams meet to review future business plans but we have no evidence of a pullback today.
Highlighting the improvement in our portfolio is the continued increase in occupancy we produced this quarter.
Retail end of the quarter at 92.8% leased.
This is 20 basis points better than a year ago and 40 basis points better than last quarter.
It's encouraging that for the third consecutive quarter we saw a slight improvement in occupancy of not only our overall portfolio but also our spaces under 10 000 square feet.
The occupancy improvements are a result of our disciplined leasing efforts and continued  modest improvement with small shop fallout.
During the quarter we leased 419 spaces for $19 million in annual rent.
This includes 162 new retail leases for $7.8 million in annual rent.
148 of those leases were for small spaces less than 10 000 square feet.
This is pretty consistent with our production over the last several years.
While the coastal markets continue to improve we saw the best leasing production from our Raleigh and Atlanta offices this quarter.
As I mentioned shop fallout has also improved.
We lost only 92 shop tenants during the third quarter.
Year-to-date that's 20% less shop fallout than we've averaged over the previous 4 years.
While this is better it's still significantly higher fallout than prior to this recession.
Rent growth has remained flat all year.
It was up 1.6% during the third quarter for our retail new leases and renewals.
The increase was primarily driven by re-leasing of a supermarket in Phoenix  where we realized a significant rate increase.
Excluding that individual lease we would've been down 0.4% for the quarter which is where we've been all year.
Weve continued to emphasize occupancy over rent growth in the majority of vacant spaces so long as we can negotiate short-term leases or leases with rent steps.
This decision is made by the leaders of our regional offices as they assess individual projects and spaces.
I think I mentioned last quarter that around 70% of all the shop spaces we're executing today have less than 3 years of term or have rent steps.
This provides revenue today and should allow us to capture upside rent when the economy improves.
Same Property Net Operating Income was down 1% for the retail properties.
This is primarily influenced by the fallout of some larger boxes earlier this year.
This drop was anticipated and it's a matter of timing between the fallout and the 408 000 square feet of commencements we anticipate in the fourth quarter.
We expect to end the year in the range we've guided between 0% and 1%.
These same commencements will also help our Same Property NOI next year.
As Steve mentioned we're guiding between 4% and 5% for 2012.
This is obviously a wonderful increase albeit slightly less than we were anticipating 8 months ago.
A couple of issues affected our decision to make this change.
First at least until the last few days the economic outlook have become much more negative.
Although our fallout rate has improved it has not improved as much as previously anticipated.
Second as we worked through our disposition plan and identified properties that we intend to sell some of these properties have strong Same Store NOI in 2012 largely because they had significant lease up.
The timing of which we dispose our property is very fluid and the related impact on Same Property NOI is difficult to predict.
I'd like to touch briefly on our industrial portfolio.
Occupancy was basically flat from last quarter at 87.9% up a bit from 86.9% at September of 2010.
Same Property NOI year-to-date is a negative 3.7%.
This performance is generally in line with the industrial REIT sector.
Clearly we have some struggles.
However we believe that the bottom is behind us and that we can make some steady progress going forward.
The industrial sector performance is more closely correlated to the economic recovery than our Retail business so a lot will depend on how the recovery progresses.
Industrial rents have dropped significantly.
Given little new space has been added and as the economy improves and space is absorbed there should be strong improvement in industrial rent and net operating income as we discussed in April.
Our Accelerated Recycling program continues to move forward.
Most of the noncore assets we've offered for sale are smaller lower tier assets.
We talked a little bit about the profile of these properties at Investor Day but it may be worthwhile to repeat that only 40% of the properties we're going to sell are supermarket-anchored most of those independent supermarkets.
The average base rent of these assets is 30% below the company average and the properties we're selling are 89% leased.
You can really understand the difference when we compare these assets to our select portfolio where 76% are supermarket-anchored occupancy is 93.4% and they are primarily located in high-growth markets.
At the end of the quarter we were under contract or negotiating contracts on 24 centers or land parcels representing a total sales price of $187 million of assets.
Of these $119 million relate to the 19-center portfolio we started marketing in May.
We had hoped to kick-start our recycling efforts by disposing of a larger portfolio through a national marketing effort.
But today we believe we will be able to maximize our pricing utilizing local brokers as local investors can better appreciate many of these properties.
I'll reemphasize this will take some time.
And as Drew mentioned we remain committed to dispose of these secondary assets and improve the overall quality of the portfolio.
Quality acquisitions remain very competitive.
Year-to-date the company has closed $68 million of assets with a couple of smaller deals in negotiation or under letters of intent.
We continue to actively participate in the bidding processes for the better quality assets that come to market in our target areas but we will only buy assets that are accretive and improve the overall quality of the portfolio.
Finally I wanted to say that I am confident we will continue to meet the challenges we face by continuing our disciplined focus on executing the basic fundamentals of our business.
Drew I think youve got some closing comments.
Thanks Johnny.
The inconsistency in the economy has been concerning.
And like most we worry about the strength of the recovery going forward.
On the other hand we're pleased with the results we've achieved in this environment.
Our occupancy was up nicely this quarter and we continue to make progress leasing our small shop space.
The commencement of many of these leases over the next few months will drive an improvement in our Same Property NOI not only in the fourth quarter but into 2012.
We continue to make progress leasing our New Development projects and have been successful in identifying new opportunities.
We also feel good about our disposition pipeline and we believe we've made positive first steps to achieving our strategic objective of selling our secondary assets.
I would also like to reinforce the strength of our select portfolio.
76% of the NOI of these assets come from properties with a supermarket anchor.
These supermarkets averaged $478 per square foot in sales last year.
The select portfolio is quality assets in trade areas with strong barriers to entry and Metropolitan areas that will continue to grow.
As our disposition program progresses we believe the quality of the select portfolio will become increasingly obvious.
Thanks to all of the Weingarten associates whove worked so hard to achieve these results.
Thank you all for joining the call today for your continued interest in Weingarten.
Operator we'd now be happy to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Quentin Velleley with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just in terms of the asset sales I think on the last call you'd spoken about the $400 million that you were looking at selling and theres the $190 million on the letter of intent.
I'm just curious as to the quality of that $190 million of assets versus the $400 million? Is it fair to say that you've sort of been able to sell some of the better quality assets? And I think you made the comment that you're going to keep some of the other assets and try to sell them through local brokers? Yes Quen I guess -- I don't know that I would characterize the assets that are under contract as the best of the group.
I think they're probably located in more metropolitan areas that the rest of them.
And in that way I guess they would be better.
Theyre for the most part not supermarket-anchored shopping centers but again much smaller assets.
And when you look at the demographics they're pretty equal I think to the balance of the group of properties that we're planning to sell.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of the industrial occupancy I think it was actually up over the year but youve had that big drop off in Same Store NOI so I'm sort of just curious as to what's driving the big drop given that occupancy was up slightly? It's principally bad debt Quentin as well as the timing of the occupancy.
Weve got a little bit more space in industrial than normal that is signed but the leases haven't commenced yet.
And the next question comes from Christy McElroy with UBS.
Research Division</strong> With regard to your 2012 guidance in getting to the 4% to 5% Same Store NOI growth target can you remind us how much of thats  driven by currently uncommitted occupancy upside? And what's your comfort level with gaining incremental occupancy versus when you first provided the 5% target earlier this year? Christy this is Johnny.
We -- in terms of the space that we have committed kind of going through that is signed and not commenced I've got about $6 million that is coming in on -- in Q4 2011 and then about $4 million in Q1 2012.
So I'm not sure exactly how much of a percentage that is but that's basically the breakdown of it.
Research Division</strong> And how much of it -- how much of the assumed upside comes from uncommitted occupancy upside? Not much.
I mean I don't have that number exactly.
And one of the things that we tried to say in the call -- in the script was that it's becoming more difficult to track as we're looking at properties coming in and out or properties going out of the portfolio with the dispositions effort some of those would be positive if we didn't sell them but we're going to go ahead and sell them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then thanks for providing the small shop occupancy in the press release.
Is that a leased percentage or a commenced occupancy number? And do you have enough visibility to give us a sense for what that number could be at year-end? That is a leased percentage that we have in the press release.
And yes I think it will be better.
I'm not sure that itll  be significantly better.
I think we're going to continue to make some incremental improvements in 20 basis points 30 basis points.
I think that the key to that improvement frankly is the reduced fallout that we've seen over the last couple of months in the shop space.
Research Division</strong> What's the commenced number for small shop? Let me get back to you on that.
And our next question comes from Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> In looking at the supplemental on Pages 24 and 25 it seems like 2 reasons that are not taking place in sort of your recovery is the Mid-Atlantic and the Mountain region and more specifically it looks like Georgia and Nevada.
I was just wondering what was the headwinds that you're facing there whether it was overbuilding or weaker economies.
And I noticed Johnny you had mentioned that Atlanta had an active third quarter.
Yes Craig most of that is driven by fallout.
Those regions were more impacted by Ultimate Electronics and a previously terminated Borders and a previously terminated Home Depot.
And that's really what's moving those regions as opposed to any sort of macroeconomic.
We actually have been able to do quite well in re-leasing those properties.
We just haven't been able to get them to producing rent yet.
Research Division</strong> Are they going to be taking occupancy in 2012? Some of them yes.
Yes we've run a good job on re-leasing both the Ultimate Electronics and the Borders stuff.
I think you may remember we started the year with 6 Borders stores and we have letters of intent or re-leased 4 of those stores and we've got letters of intent for 2 of the 3 Ultimate Electronics.
They will probably be later in the year though.
And our next question comes from Nathan Isbee with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm just -- if you can just clarify the same-store NOI guidance for 2011.
I think you're tracking down about the 60 bps right now.
I mean that would translate to a pretty strong fourth quarter.
I mean much better than you've been doing.
Are they going to get in in time to get even to the bottom of the flat to 1%? Nate this is -- Yes Nate this is Johnny.
It is our anticipation that we will be within guidance and that we will get some stores open.
We got some open late in the third quarter and we have some that are opening this month.
So we believe we're going to get there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean I would assume that you're probably -- the top end of your guidance reduction probably related to reducing some of the high end of that Same-Store  NOI guidance.
Is that a fair assumption? Yes.
I think what you're seeing is is an economy that is not doing as well as we thought it would be in terms of our guidance for 2012.
While the fallout is a lot better it's certainly not as improved as we had hoped it would be.
And while leasing is steady it's not as strong as we thought it would be 6 to 8 months ago.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if you can just talk about the retail same store from this quarter.
I mean the big box vacancies took place  the beginning of the year but you seem to have backtracked from the second quarter.
Can you just talk about what happened there? I think it's a lot of things and I went through all the Same Property NOI stuff over the last week or so.
It is many many small things that are impacting it.
Certainly the timing of getting some of the stores open is significant but also the number of the big shops that closed and the timing of all those is really what has impacted it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Did some of those happen in the second quarter? Yes Ultimate happened in the second quarter and I think Borders happened late in the third quarter.
And the next question comes from Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up question on the dispositions for 2012 the $300 million to $400 million.
Given sort of the CMBS market today and your decision to go more through local brokers should we be thinking about that as more back-half weighted in terms of the sales? Yes the way we have looked at it is to basically have it done ratably throughout the year.
I think we have made good progress moving forward and I would think that would be the best way to model that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then given your commentary about thinking  that you can maximize the pricing via the local brokers.
I mean have your cap rate expectations on those sales significantly changed in light of a bad decision plus the slower economic environment? I don't think that theyve dramatically changed.
I think that 6 to 8 months ago I certainly would have thought that the secondary assets would be moving closer in tandem with core assets as far as the price increases.
That hasn't happened.
And so I would say we're looking at maybe some lower pricing that we had originally.
And I think you're seeing that throughout the market.
That noncore assets are generally not highly sought after certainly by institutional folks these days.
And your next question comes from Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just want to go back to the occupancy for a second.
So if you ended the third quarter at 89.8% on the retail side and you have about $6 million of annualized rents coming in in the fourth quarter another $4 million in the first quarter where does the occupancy go by year end? Because I thought the earlier comments on the call was that occupancy by year end wasn't going to change all that much wasn't expected to change all that much.
So can you just try to walk us through the occupancy progression one more time? Michael I may not have articulated this very effectively but I got  about almost 1 million square feet of space that is signed and not commenced and about 400 000 square feet of thatll  be commencing in the next couple of months.
And that's where we're going to get the increase in same store.
The amount of space that is leased -- the total amount of space that is leased is going to go up modestly but that's -- again with the lag between actually getting the stores open and leased I think is maybe where I missed that.
Research Division</strong> So the 1 million square feet is what comes online becomes -- falls into the commenced category in Q4 and Q1 and that ties to that about $10 million of annualized rents? Is that the right way to look at it? Yes 1 million square feet is what is sitting in a category that is signed and not commenced today total and about 620 000 square feet of that will be commenced in the next 2 quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And that ties to that $6 million in line in Q4 and $4 million in Q1? Yes yes yes sorry.
Research Division</strong> Okay yes no problem.
And then last question the dispositions what sort of cap rates are being assumed for what's under contract and just for next year? Yes it varies by center as you might be able to know but it's somewhere around 7 7.5 or maybe some of them are going to be 8 but it's going to be in that range.
Your next question comes from Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
Just a couple of quick follow-up questions.
So the $300 million to $400 million of dispositions is fully in the 2012 guidance is that correct? $300 million to $400 million in dispositions is in the 2012 guidance yes.
Yes that's correct.
And just turning to your debt maturities it looks like you have a pretty decent amount coming due.
What are your plans for your financing and your assumptions about rates versus what's in place? In terms of the -- as we reported we have the $200 million term facility that we closed and then we renewed the revolver.
So we can clearly have enough capacity the fund all -- even without any dispositions and I'll come back to that to fund  the 2012 maturities under the current revolver.
So -- however we plan on as we guided to have some $150 million $200 million of dispositions before the end of the year that will bring that number down and allow us more capacity and liquidity available there.
In terms of pricing we actually did the $200 million term loan to provide us that so we are short -- that rate is a short-term rate right now.
So in terms of going to the market with our disposition program we don't really anticipate having to go to the long-term capital markets for -- to fund that because we obviously plan on dispositions.
And the next question comes from Carol Kemple with Hilliard Lyons.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple  questions on the income statement.
What led to the decline in G&amp;A in the quarter? The decline in the G&amp;A in the quarter is really our deferred comp assets; as those go down in value that's a reduction in G&amp;A.
You'll see a corresponding reduction in interest income that offsets that.
That was about $900 000 of the reduction in G&amp;A.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well that was my next question.
What happened to interest income? So you just answered that.
Well I mean in total the decrease in interest income was because it's spread between G&amp;A and operating and some capital.
So it's $2.6 million of the interest income was from the deferred comp assets.
And then you remember last year we had the Sheridan bonds on our balance sheet that we refinanced earlier this year so that interest income has went away also.
And your next question comes from Ben Yang with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> You commented earlier that the impairments you took were obviously based on your view of current market values.
And it sounds like you also took a look at the entire portfolio and not just the properties that are for sale.
So just wondering if you could comment on how many any assets took charges if the impairments are concentrated anywhere in particular geographical by -- or by quality maybe retail versus industrial? Just to give us some idea of where the portfolio's weakening the most.
I would say that we outlined the 3 different categories and the vast majority is obviously coming from the land held and the assets that we are attempting to dispose.
The land-held numbers those are purely a matter of declining market values for the assets held.
In those we probably had 5 or 6 7 different adjustments on the land-held numbers.
In terms of the properties I don't remember exactly how many we can get back to you in terms of how many assets in the 65 assets that we evaluated of the secondary assets that were included in the impairment number.
My recollection is probably around 12 assets that were individually affected.
And then on the JV side there was only 2 JVs that we have in our portfolio that we had to evaluate from a finite life perspective.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> But you did take a comprehensive look at the entire portfolio when you entered  this process.
Is that a fair assumption or just the ones that were for sale? No under GAAP you don't necessarily look at your entire operating asset so to speak.
So these were -- the focus was on the land held obviously where we had a contractual obligation of the JVs for finite life JV and then certainly the assets that we intend to dispose of over the next year or so.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So including the $300 million to $400 million that you plan for next year  so the likelihood of drilling out more impairments is pretty low at this point? We believe that to be the case.
There is a little bit of noise in the accounting world versus what I would call reality into what's included for some things like closing costs you're not supposed to impair for.
And assuming that's a couple  basis points on a transaction we hope we're covered but we could be off 1% 2% 3% 5%.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then switching gears any thoughts on how much the lower 2012 Same Store NOI guidance was affected by the lower expected dispositions for the year? Is there any way at all to quantify that on your end? That's really difficult because of the movement of assets going in and going out.
To be honest we obviously haven't even as you might expected selling all these assets.
We don't know the timing of which ones move in and move out.
So we're doing it at a global -- a corporate level versus an individual timing perspective.
So that's extremely difficult to get to that one.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But is it fair to assume that you took a conservative stance in terms of coming up with that guidance? We believe we did.
And the next question comes from Tayo Okusanya from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In regards to the small shop tenants could you just give us a sense of which tenants you're seeing out there that are still taking up space relative to other small shop tenants where there might not be at the same level of demand for space? Sure yes.
We continue to see really a good demand in restaurants whether it's family dining with some buffets or what we'd characterize as fast buys Buffalo Wild Wings Chipotle Freebirds Genghis Starbucks people like that.
We also continue to see medical as a pretty significant group that's leasing space primarily dental but some doctors and also some other medical uses.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the restaurants on any kind of -- are you seeing any slowdowns recently just kind of given  some of the bankruptcy news that's going on in the casual restaurant space? We have not seen a slowdown from restaurants at this point.
There seems to be as many as we can find spaces for.
And next we have Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Steve if I could I'd like to go back to the impairment question.
I'm looking at the list of joint ventures which of those or was there just one I guess that you took the impairment in in the joint venture? Rich I'd prefer not to identify specifically the individual JVs that were hit.
There's -- we had very small adjustments in 2 of them.
And just from a perspective these are -- when I say small we're talking about in aggregate less than 2% of the value of those assets.
So as you might suspect those JVs were created at the height of the last cycle.
And we have done the accounting adjustments but there's 2 of them on that list.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you've reviewed those Steve all of the assets within each of those ventures right? And so this is the only part that's impacted? That's correct.
We only have -- those 2 are the only 2 finite life JVs.
The other ones are infinite life JVs.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good I got you.
And then looking over at the land side of the equation on Page 11 did you have to review everything in here? I didn't think you had to do that for land.
Did you have to actually review the entire portfolio of land that you have here and make some changes or were there certain reasons you had to look at certain parcels or certain projects? No we looked at all of the land held where we felt like there's a potential of a diminution in value.
In all fairness on Page 11 you can see that list looks pretty long.
However it's easier for some of the assets that quite frankly are Phase 2 to a existing development or existing shopping center.
But we've reviewed the entire portfolio.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So really from a land standpoint you truly are done taking a look at potential impairments? Assuming the market doesn't go further south I would say yes.
But that -- I can't guarantee that so to speak Rich.
And next we have a follow-up from Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up question on the acquisition side of things for 2012 I apologize if I missed it.
Is there anything baked in for 2012? Yes 2012 we're guiding $300 million to $400 million We have not given all the detailed guidance with regard to 2012 at this point Vincent.
The -- we obviously felt like we needed to give dispositions only because of the $300 million to $400 million is obviously a material number.
And we also gave same-store  only because the 5% that we had thrown out as our projections in the Investor Day last year seemed to be such a hot topic.
And next we have a follow-up from Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
If I could just ask that same question differently.
I mean coming in your way of tackling your guidance numbers I mean don't you have to implicitly include specific number positions maybe you could give a big range but I mean it probably wouldn't be 0 right? On acquisitions? Yes.
Yes I don't think at this point the acquisition number will be material quite frankly because of where we see that market and given our activity this year.
Unless that turns around I would not anticipate guiding with a significant number and given where spreads are and our balance sheet leverage-wise it's not like we can load up -- we would want to load up on a lot of acquisitions without putting on some type of debt.
So the margins there are pretty insignificant when you look at 2012 anyway.
All right.
And just a follow-up on the accounting question.
How much of the $300 million to $400 million of assets you're planning to sell are categorized as held for sale? It's the number that's actually on the balance sheet.
If you look at our supplemental which is $122 million.
Right but that's depreciated/impaired book value not the $300 million to $400 million that's based on a market value right? I think it is but the $122 million is a portion and it's not even all of what we expect to close this year.
So it's not the full $187 million but it's a pretty good portion of it.
We can get back to you on that number as to exactly how much it is.
Yes thatd  be great and also Id like to get the NOI associated with it? Okay.
And next we have a follow-up from Rich Moore.
LLC Research Division</strong> Steve on the debt side of the equation you have the $200 million term loan and that's fairly short term in nature.
And then I think $195 million roughly on the line of credit.
I don't think you have enough in dispositions to pay those off.
What are you guys thinking in terms of an unsecured note or something to that extent as the year turns? You're saying  I don't have enough in dispositions -- I'm not looking necessarily to pay off the revolver 100% Rich.
So I mean I'm not looking to get floating rate debt down to nothing.
We are a little strong right now.
But for example if you -- if we took the midpoint of our guidance of dispositions for the year at $175 million and took that against the floating rate debt the floating rate debt gets down to about 15% at the end of Q3.
Again assuming you had closed those dispositions.
So I'm not looking -- I'm not necessarily suggesting that we want to get totally -- eliminate the floating rate debt totally.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so what are you hearing in the marketplace right now about unsecured pricing or the potential of getting a notes-type deal done? We can clearly -- obviously there has not been a REIT bond transaction in a while so I'm not real sure exactly what the premium -- new issue premium is.
But in talking to the market I think we could issue our 10-year paper somewhere in  the 3.25 spread range.
So if you assume a treasury  10-year this morning was at I think 2.32 or something like that you're talking about a 5.5 kind of coupon in that range.
And your next question comes from Chris Lucas with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Hey Steve just sort of a follow-up on that and I apologize if you've already gone through this but what is sort of your thought process right now as it relates to paying off the term loan? Again Chris I think we'll use the disposition proceeds to eliminate the term loan.
And that was really the purpose of -- in addition to giving us a little bit more capacity in the interim was to basically stay short so we had a good use of proceeds when the term loan -- I'm sorry when we sold those assets later in the year and into 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Johnny on the -- I don't know if anybodys  asked this and I apologize if it has been asked but could you give us maybe an update on the junior box status given some of the additional hits that have occurred and probably progress that youve made on some of the boxes? Yes Chris we right now are like 96.5% leased in our junior box category.
So I think we've done pretty well in terms of getting that done.
I think I mentioned earlier we had 6 Borders and we've got 4 letters of intent are re-leased for those spaces.
We had 3 Ultimates we have 2 letters of intent that are working on those spaces and those were the I guess the biggest boxes that we had.
But I feel like we're in pretty good shape on the junior box spaces.
And I'm showing no further questions at this time.
I'll go ahead and turn the call back over to you Mr.
Alexander.
Thank you very much for your interest in the company.
We'll certainly be around if there's other questions.
I hope you have a wonderful Halloween.
I'm sure we'll also see a lot you at NAREIT and we look forward to that.
All the best to everyone.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Weingarten Realty Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
My name is John and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Tim Goss.
Mr.
Goss you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter 2011 conference call.
My name is Tim Goss and I will be assisting the management team with our Investor Relations efforts.
Joining me today is Drew Alexander President and CEO; Stanford Alexander Chairman; Johnny Hendrix Executive Vice President and COO; Steve Richter Executive Vice President and CFO; Robert Smith Senior Vice President; and Joe Shafer Senior Vice President and CAO.
As a reminder certain statements made during the course of this call are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
More information about these factors is contained in the company's SEC filings.
Also during this conference call management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as funds from operations or FFO which we believe help analysts and investors to better understand Weingarten's operating results.
Reconciliation to this non-GAAP financial measure is available in our supplemental information packet located under the Investor Relations tab of our website.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Drew Alexander.
Thank you Tim and thanks to all of you for joining our call.
I'm pleased to announce another quarter of solid operating results which was a fitting finish to a good year considering the economic environment.
Our fourth quarter results marked an upward movement in operations which sets the stage for what we believe will be an even stronger 2012.
As we formulated our business plan for 2011 we felt the economy would gradually improve during the year giving us cause for optimism.
Instead we encountered economic turmoil around the world.
Nonetheless we increased occupancy over the course of the year in spite of big-box closings early in the year and finished the year with strong Same Property NOI growth in the fourth quarter.
We also made good progress with our disposition program.
We sold nearly 120 million of non-core assets in land holdings last year.
We remained focused on reducing our land holdings whether through selling parcels or converting land into new phases of active developments.
During 2011 we sold approximately 17 million of our land held for future development.
The proceeds from our disposition program were recycled into investments in acquisitions and our development program.
Especially considering the recent improvements in the CMBS market we are bullish on our ability to continue the evolution of our portfolio through additional capital recycling in 2012 and beyond.
We invested over $65 million in a very competitive acquisition market last year despite an increase in prices for top-tier assets to pre-recession levels and in some cases even higher.
With an immense amount of capital chasing the higher-quality properties we continue to actively compete but have remained disciplined by pursuing only those opportunities that will create acceptable long-term returns to our shareholders.
We also continue to make progress in our New Development program.
In 2011 we commenced 3 excellent new projects including our entry into the Washington D.C.
market investing over $35 million during the year.
We anticipate that both the acquisitions and New Development market will remain challenging and we will stay focused and disciplined to grow shareholder value in this area.
By recycling capital from our disposition program into new acquisitions and development we continue to further improve the overall quality of our portfolio.
The finance team was also very busy in 2011.
We extended the term of our credit facility to 4 years plus an option year and closed a $200 million term loan.
This affords us adequate liquidity to handle all near-term debt maturities which all of us in the industry have come to appreciate.
Now many of you have read reports that indicate our industrial portfolio is on the market.
As we have communicated many times in the past we're open to any opportunities that arise.
And under the right circumstances we would consider selling those assets.
However at this time we have nothing further to report.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve to discuss our financial results.
Thanks Drew.
Recurring FFO was $0.48 per diluted share for the quarter versus $0.43 last year resulting in an increase of 11.6%.
Increased occupancy lower bad debt and reduced interest expense from very favorable refinancings of recent debt maturities were the significant drivers of this increase.
Reported FFO was also a $0.48 per share compared to $0.33 per share in 2010 which included impairments of $0.10 per share in 2010.
Both reported and recurring FFO for 2011 is net of a noncash impairment of $0.02 per share primarily related to a property that was classified as held for sale.
We made great progress in strengthening our balance sheet and enhancing our liquidity during the year.
As Drew indicated we extended and renewed our $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility and also closed on a $200 million term loan that allowed us to pay down the revolver thereby providing additional capacity for future capital needs and creating flexibility with our accelerated disposition program.
While we continue to pursue accretive acquisitions to recycle the capital provided by the disposition program the proceeds provided by these property sales in 2011 were used to continue to delever our balance sheet reducing our net debt to EBITDA to 6.5x at year end.
We have made solid improvement in our key financial ratios during the year.
With respect to 2012 guidance we reaffirm a range of recurring FFO of $1.81 to $1.91 per share.
This guidance assumes $300 million to $400 million of dispositions $125 million to $175 million of acquisitions and $75 million to $100 million of incremental investment and new developments.
As discussed last quarter we also anticipate a Same Property NOI increase of 4% to 5%.
There are some additional assumptions on our 2012 business plan on Page 50 of the supplemental.
Our global assumption for 2012 is a slow modest improvement in the general economy as well as the retail environment.
However only marginally better than 2011.
Before I turn the call over to Robert Smith to discuss development I'd like to formally introduce Tim Goss who will be helping Drew Johnny and myself interface with all of you.
As many of you know Kristin Horn is no longer with the company.
Tim has been with the company 7 years leading our financial planning and analysis area and he provides us with the answers to many of your questions.
I look forward to personally introducing Tim to each of you at upcoming NAREIT or other investor conferences.
Robert? Well we continued to see gradual improvements in the New Development arena.
As you know our 3 areas of focus have been on leasing the projects that are currently in our pipeline utilizing our existing inventory of land through either sales or initiating new phases of existing developments and the continued pursuit of new opportunities both ground-up developments as well as redevelopments.
On the leasing front we are pleased with the progress that we're experiencing on our active developments.
For the 7 projects that were in the pipeline at the beginning of the year we have increased signed occupancy by almost 18% and have added $1.4 million in NOI during the year.
In fact in the fourth quarter alone we added 4 percentage points of occupancy a clear indication of the traction that we have gained at several of our projects.
With respect to our unimproved land inventory our team is very focused on finding ways to monetize this investment.
In fact during the year we reduced our investment in unimproved land by $22 million by selling over $17 million of the land and also by moving 18 acres of the land into our active development pipeline as new phases in response to increased demand for space.
We also have several other parcels currently under contract which is a good indication of the progress expected in 2012.
We are also very pleased with the new projects that we commenced last year.
We began construction on 3 centers each anchored by a leading supermarket.
Earlier in the year we kicked off projects with Kroger and Whole Foods.
And then in November we finalized a joint venture with a landowner near Alexandria Virginia for a 258 000 square-foot shopping center anchored by Wegmans which many of you know is a highly successful supermarket operator on the East Coast.
This project which represents our entry into the Washington D.C.
market has an estimated final investment of $62 million and is already nearly 70% pre-leased.
The Wegmans store which is expected to open in the spring of 2014 we will continue our strong pre-leasing efforts.
We will be quite selective however with new leases as we believe we'll see even better ramps on the shop space the closer we get to the opening of the center.
Combined with our Kroger and our Whole Foods developments these 3 projects represent $74 million of additions to our development pipeline in 2011.
Considering the economy we are pleased with this progress and look forward to more positive results in 2012.
I will now turn it over to Johnny.
Thanks Robert.
We continue to see small positive steps towards an improved operating environment and it feels like we're picking up a little momentum going into 2012.
Shop fallout has continued to subside.
Over the last half of 2011 we saw a 25% reduction from a year ago.
We're encouraged by the most recent jobs reports.
Almost 1 million jobs over 60% of all the jobs created in 2011 were within Weingarten's operating footprint.
We gained jobs in 64 of the 66 MSAs represented in our portfolio.
Jobs will drive increased retail sales and ultimately improved metrics for our shopping centers.
We finished 2011 with a strong quarter ending the year with 93% occupancy for our retail properties.
This includes small shop occupancy of 86.7% an increase of 110 basis points during the year.
We're seeing the most interest from service tenants healthy living and fast buys categories.
Tenants like insurance agents medical services Supercuts SUBWAY pizza shops Weight Watchers and Mattress Firm.
Our Healthy Living category which includes GNC urgent care chiropractors and senior care had significant increase of transaction flow during 2011.
In recent discussions with our dental and medical franchisors we continue to see strong open device for our shopping centers.
We've been able to increase our overall shop occupancy primarily based on 2 factors.
First we have a great operating team that is focused at a local level maximizing occupancy by making decisions in the field.
The team executed 665 new leases representing $30 million in annualized rents in 2011.
And second we have great properties.
74% of our retail NOI comes from shopping centers anchored by a supermarket.
On average one of our shopping centers anchored by a supermarket and a discount clothing operator creates 20 000 customer visits a week to our shopping centers.
This traffic combined with our best-in-class operating platform generated 110 basis point improvement in shop space occupancy during 2011.
Those same 2 factors also contributed to a healthy fourth quarter retail Same Property NOI increase of 1.8%.
For 2012 we're positioned to see a very good increase of between 4% and 5%.
We still have some work to do but we're closing in on the goal.
The bulk of the Same Property NOI increase will be driven by 4 components.
First the full year effect of leases commenced in 2011.
Second the commencement of leases already signed which will commence during 2012 and third contractual rent steps.
While there is work commencing leases the first 3 components are pretty much done.
Majority of the work that still has to be completed falls into the fourth category leases that still need to be signed and commenced during 2012.
We estimate we need an additional $5 million of rent from this category during the year.
This translates roughly 450 000 square feet of space that would need to be commenced in 2012.
The timing and the volume of production required is about the same we've experienced over the last 2 years.
We're seeing the Same Property NOI improving unevenly through 2012.
We commenced a lot of leases in the second quarter of 2011 so for 2012 that will be a more challenging quarter.
We didn't see finishing the year strong.
The company continues to be focused on repositioning our retail portfolio.
During 2011 we sold 26 assets for close to $120 million.
Since the end of the year we closed an additional 5 properties for $37 million.
The majority of the centers we sold are small between $5 million and $10 million.
Most of the buyers are local investors that have access to bank debt.
Selling to a little less experienced buyer combined with the CMBS slow down during 2011 led to a little slower execution of our strategy.
But we continue to be committed to sell these lower-quality assets and improve our overall portfolio.
Finally I wanted to touch briefly on the performance of our industrial portfolio.
We ended the year with 89.5% occupancy which is up from 87.9% last quarter an increase of 160 basis points.
You can see in the supplemental we now have about 630 000 square feet of space that is signed and not commenced.
This will obviously lead to improving Same Property NOI going forward.
No significant new space is being added to the market and as the economy improves this should result in better operating metrics.
These improvements will become evident much quicker for industrial assets as we generally have shorter-term leases.
So you'd see a higher rate of turn and leases commenced more quickly than retail.
We clearly have some good upside going forward.
We're looking forward to the rest of 2012 improving Same Property NOI improving occupancy and finally improve negotiating leverage as good space continues to become more scarce.
Drew? Thanks Johnny.
Well I believe it's beneficial to look in the rearview mirror in order to recognize accomplishments and to learn valuable lessons.
Our attention is clearly focused on the road ahead.
Our strategic plan for 2012 is consistent with what you have heard for some time.
We will stay focused on 5 key areas.
First continued growth in Same Property NOI; second disciplined accretive investments in both acquisitions and new development; third continued dispositions of non-core assets and strengthening of our quality portfolio; fourth continued improvement of our strong balance sheet and financial metrics; and fifth growing FFO and NAV per share.
As it relates to our operating metrics a lot of the work we completed in 2011 produced significant portions of the planned improvements in 2012 such as our projected increases in Same Property NOI.
Additionally our performance thus far in 2012 has been very positive with continued declines in tenant fallout and favorable leasing activity both of which should contribute to further occupancy improvements.
Thanks to all of the Weingarten associates that have worked so hard in 2011 and will certainly continue their efforts in 2012 and thanks to all of you for joining the call today and for your continued interest in Weingarten.
Operator we'll now be happy to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Craig Schmidt from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned in your press release you picked up 110 bps in leasing for a space 110 000 square feet.
I wonder could you categorize that? Well were those nationals or local? Were they at the smaller end of that range or the larger end of that range? Craig I would say they're really right in the middle.
Most of the shop space that we're leasing today would fall into a category that I would -- kind of lump a little bit together.
And that's the national regional and franchisor-driven opportunities.
It's people like GNC Sally Beauty SUBWAY.
So a lot of those are in the 2 000 square foot range.
We kind of think of the average shop space for us is about 2 200 square feet.
Research Division</strong> And are those names investing throughout the geography of the U.S.? Yes.
I would also include medical services with that dentists chiropractors and people like that which have been part of that increase.
Our next question comes from Quentin Velleley from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just in terms of guidance just curious in terms of the acquisitions and the dispositions which you're having coming through throughout the year.
I'm just -- can you give us a sense of what cap rates you're assuming in guidance so we can get a sense of the dilution from the dispositions? Well Quentin this is Steve.
We're assuming around an 8% cap rate on dispositions and generally spread throughout the year.
On acquisitions we're obviously a little more lower cap rate than that.
So I think we're closer in the call it 6 little -- maybe a little heavier than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Steve with the interest expense coming down in the quarter in the fourth quarter can you just talk through the difference in that? I know you had some asset sales and some minor refinancing stuff but was a big drop so could you just talk us through that? Sure.
A big -- the big pieces of that have to do with the refinance of the 7% bonds that we paid off last year as well as the redemption of the 395 convertibles we had.
Even though it had a 395 coupon the actual accrual expense that was hitting the P&amp;L was a little over 5.25% because of the amortization of the convertible feature and so forth.
So about -- and then we also had the refinancing of the revolver which we went from a 275 spread to 125.
So those are the 3 major pieces that account for the big difference in interest expense.
Our next question comes from Ki Bin Kim from Macquarie.
Just a follow up on that a quick question.
You have about $500 million coming due this year.
What are your refinancing plans? Obviously as we've mentioned several times there's a $200 million term loan that actually runs until the end of August.
The anticipated take out of that if you will is the disposition program that we have articulated.
And beyond that we obviously that -- we're expecting $300 million to $400 million from that program so that will clearly take out the $200 million in the current balance on the revolver which allows us then to use the revolver for the other $330-ish million $340-ish million of what I'd call normal debt maturities beyond the $200 million term loan.
So you're not planning to raise any longer-term debt? You're going to keep on the revolver the remainder? That's correct.
Obviously we're working through the disposition program until we have better clarity there.
The one caveat I would say is we continue to look for acquisition opportunities.
So we have to balance that with -- should we find something or be successful in that market we could in fact approach the long-term market at that point.
Okay.
And in terms of market rents and what you're seeing could you talk about if there are certain markets that you're observing increases in market land square? It just -- has it justified more development? Ki this is Johnny.
First of all I want to answer the last question first.
We have not seen significant rental increases that would justify a lot of new development.
There are selective opportunities for new development but I wouldn't say that the rent increases we're seeing are there yet.
I think you can kind of look at the occupancy in the regional areas that we're in to get an idea of where we seem to have some amount of leverage.
So California which is 94.6% leased we have pretty good leverage in -- we're seeing better rental increases.
Texas we're at 94 -- 93.6% which is really almost pre-recession levels.
And so we have pretty decent leverage there.
Florida our occupancy is up really nicely over the last several years.
We're almost to 94% in Florida today.
We've actually got about 390 basis points of spread between signed and leased.
So we've got a lot of good same store NOI coming out of there in 2012.
So we're seeing better leverage in Florida.
Both the Mountain and Atlantic regions actually is kind of different than you might initially look at.
The occupancy is a little lower than the average of the portfolio.
But actually their shop space is higher than the rest of the portfolio.
It's somewhere around 89% both of them.
Those markets have been hit primarily by some fallouts Borders we had a home improvement store that we talked about last year and Ultimate Electronics.
So overall those markets have a little bit less occupancy.
But from a shop space perspective we're still in pretty good shape.
So I think the leverage is getting a little bit better.
And you can't really tell that quite from the same property from the old versus new.
But I think it is getting better and I think we will see it improve through 2012.
And is the strength in Florida all Florida or just Southern Florida? Our experience is Southern Florida clearly is the best.
The recovery that we saw last year and we talked a lot about it on the various conference calls about how well Florida was leasing up that recovery primarily occurred in the central part of the state.
Our next question comes from Nathan Isbee from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You previously mentioned you were moving a lot of your small shop leasing to short-term.
I think the number was about 70% on the last call.
At what point -- or have you already reached that point where you start dialing that back and start to move out term a little bit? Nate I think that's a great question.
It really is a question that we're answering on a space by space basis.
There's always this question are you really pushing for occupancy? Are you pushing for rental increases? That decision is made in the field by our regional folks.
Overall I will tell you that we are continuing to push for occupancy.
I think if I had to go one way or the other today and I had to take a little bit less rent get the space leased and online faster I'd probably do that on a shorter term basis or one of the things we talked about last year is -- or last quarter is we're also having rent steps involved in that.
So I would probably say we're trying to lease the space faster.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you had spoken about it on the last call when you went from that 5% number to the 4% to 5% number having 2 drivers just uncertain about the economy and timing on the sales.
Can you -- I mean it's 4 months later now can you just give us a little bit more of how you're feeling about your same store NOI? And given that there are some I guess better signs for the economy than where we were 4 months ago are you feeling better towards the upper end of that range yet? or is it still too early? I don't know that I feel better about it.
I feel like we can achieve between the 4% and the 5%.
It is not locked in.
It is not done.
We've got about 200 people that are working to commence leases to sign new leases to build out spaces and to get people open as quickly as we can.
And that is going to be a tremendous focus of the company this year.
And to pick up an additional $5 million.
And that's not total.
That's net of what falls out.
That will take a significant effort so it is not locked in.
I think we can do it though.
Our next question comes from Vincent Chao from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just want to go back to the acquisition guidance for 2012.
Just in the prepared remarks about $65 million in 2011 and a pretty cautious outlook and a conservative underwriting.
Just wondering what's changing to make you a little bit more aggressive or positive on acquisitions in 2012.
This is Drew.
I think it's a combination of things.
I think we've got a great network of people who are looking at a lot of different opportunities.
I think we understand our market and can find those opportunities where we can improve things and value things better.
We're hearing from the brokerage community about a lot of property coming to the market.
So while it's very competitive and we'll remain disciplined we also think that we'll get our fair share of deals in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It sounds like the pipeline overall though is maybe a little bit bigger than it was in 2011.
Yes slightly.
But I think it's also something that we are very focused in evaluating the things that we think make sense and focused on the dozen or so markets that we want to principally focus on to grow the company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the disposition side.
I thought last quarter you talked about sort of 150 million to 200 million for dispositions for the year.
It came up a little bit short of that.
I'm just wondering if you could provide some color on what happened there? Yes I think -- this is Johnny.
What I said in the prepared remarks is we -- the CMBS market is not quite as robust as we had hoped it was.
And we are generally dealing with a less sophisticated buyer that takes a little bit longer to execute transactions with.
And I think that's really what it's about.
Research Division</strong> But I mean it seems like the 2012 guidance was unchanged.
So those deals just kind of fell through.
Some that you thought would go through just kind of fell off and you don't expect them to come back in 2012? This is Drew.
I think it's more that we are working on them and while it's taking longer and we didn't get them done in '11 we will get things done in '12.
And that's why you see the guidance where it is for '12.
The other thing that I would mention is that during '11 the CMBS market literally shut down.
We did not have a source of capital there.
So we're anticipating that the CMBS market today seems to be coming back.
It is our -- you do see transactions in that market and we are assuming that that market will not shut down again.
Our next question comes from Michael Mueller from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> In terms of 2012 occupancy guidance I think you mentioned 92% 93% unassigned basis by year end ended the year at about 89.3% occupancy.
Can you talk about where you expect that number to go? And maybe give a little more clarity on the breakout between retail which I think was about 91% and industrial which was about 84%? Yes.
I think the guidance was to improve the occupancy about 100 basis points and -- to 93%.
Most of that is actually coming out of the retail group and the industrial group is going to be a little bit flat to sideways.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So industrial occupancy's about 84% and you think that's going to stay there? Industrial signed [ph] is 89%.
And of course the main thing is we think that will commence which is as Johnny mentioned we actually are pretty bullish about the industrial performance as the economy gets better.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I thought you said occupancy would be sideways? Well from that I think it's going to be around 89% which is where it is today...
The signed [ph] occupancy we don't see -- while we see it increasing we don't see it dramatically increasing.
But it is at the 89.5% in industrial.
And of course the big part is getting that commenced.
Our next question comes from Rich Moore from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> The average base rent number ticked up pretty substantially in the quarter.
Is there anything special going on there? Is that weak centers that you sold? Or what is that exactly? Rich it's Johnny and I appreciate you asking that question.
I did see that in your write-up earlier.
I think I probably didn't do a very good job of some disclosure on the ABR.
It starts on Page 26 of the supplemental.
I think we made a change in the way we're reporting ABR in that we've taken out ground leases and that's a change from the methodology that we used last quarter.
I think the methodology we're using today is more widely accepted by our peer group and is probably what most everybody else reports.
I should have made a -- some sort of footnote about that.
So most of the increase from the 1 360 to the 1 451 was kind of that change in methodology and taking the ground leases out it would have been I think about $0.70 less if we had not have made that change.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good.
Yes great.
That's helpful.
Then on the disposition side of things you guys said $300 million to $400 million for the year.
Would that include industrial assets as well or are you thinking that's just retail? As mentioned we're really focused on the non-select portfolio our secondary portfolio in retail.
So that's what we're focused on at this time.
Our next question comes from Philip Martin from MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> A question could you shed some guidance on maintenance CapEx TI expectations for 2012? Certainly it looks like 2011 versus 2010 TI's went down a meaningful amount on a percentage basis.
But again just want to get your feel for 2012.
This is Steve Richter.
On the CapEx it runs between $5 million $7 million depending upon the amount of roofs that we wind up putting on anywhere.
It can go up to $10 million pretty not significant amount of capital required there.
On the TI money it does vary based upon the leasing.
Given that we are so heavily invested -- or excuse me so heavily occupied with the anchors where you generally spend more TI dollars again that number fluctuates.
So I would anticipate that you would not see the amount of TI capital in 2012 that you for example saw last year when we were leasing up a lot of the big boxes.
Research Division</strong> Correct.
Okay okay.
Now in terms of new leasing the tenants that are coming into your properties here the new tenants.
Are these brand new -- especially your small shop are they new tenants or are they relocations? I mean are they new start-ups or are they relocations from another property in the area that was -- that maybe didn't benefit from as good a location et cetera? Philip this is Johnny.
I think it really is a combination of both of those.
We believe and I think the statistics when you look at our rent versus the rents -- average rents in the markets our properties are the best properties in the markets that we're in.
So there are a significant number of tenants who are relocating to what they think is a better shopping center for the long term.
We're also seeing expansion by national and regional retailers that are expanding into new markets and opening new stores.
So I would say most of what I would consider to be the local the mom-and-pop folks those are mostly relocating.
And the national and regional folks are the people who are opening new stores.
Research Division</strong> Okay and that actually answers part of my next question and that -- are you having more discussions with tenants about expansion or the thought of expansion down the road? Is that entering into the discussion more today than it was even 6 months ago? Philip I would tell you that this is something that we've been focused on for years.
Many of the analysts probably remember that 3 years ago we introduced a shortfall lease.
And you might recall one of the images that we had was a leasing executive sign in the -- the lease on the roof of a car.
Last year we signed 250 of those leases.
Those are leases that have a leasing cycle that is greatly reduced could be as short as 3 or 4 days between the time that we make the deal with the tenant and the time that we actually tender the space to him.
So we've been active in that for a long time.
We've also had a lot of work on global meetings that really started out as -- with the larger tenants.
But we've actually expanded to the shop tenants.
So that's national and regional franchises that we talked to.
And last year we had over 100 meetings with shop tenants.
Even last week we met with Chipotle and Miami Subs.
So we're always looking at opportunities to go to their office or go to our office and talk with them about renewals and talk to them about new leases.
And there's a lot of that discussion going on.
We're also talking to our existing tenants about what their situation is and what their interest might be in renewal what their interest might be in expansion.
And this is kind of all of the blocking and tackling that we've been doing for the last several years.
We've actually branded the program as shop-centric and you can actually go to the website and click on shop-centric and see all of the efforts that we're going through to lease shop space.
And I'm sure that as we have meetings with the analysts and investors you'll see a little bit more of that.
But this is again something that we've been doing for years.
Research Division</strong> Have some tenants feel -- do they feel like they've missed their shot at the best locations in some cases because they may have waited longer than they should have in this environment? Just trying to time it.
Because obviously occupancy is on the rise and much of sought-after space may be gone or -- characterize that for us a bit.
I certainly think the best opportunity has probably passed.
And we're -- I think I said before that we're I think getting closer to a tipping point where there is equal leverage between the landlord and the retailer.
So I think we may be moving back to a time that the landlord actually has more leverage.
Obviously the best spaces is gone and there's not a whole lot of it being built.
So we have had discussions in these global meetings with tenants and there is -- they have expressed some concern about where they're going to get more space going forward.
So I think we're getting closer to that time.
I don't know if we're -- time is totally past yet.
So we certainly have a few opportunities left if anyone wants to call us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last question the assets held for sale.
I know it's taken a bit longer because of the CMBS market the disruptions there.
What does that mean in terms of your CapEx in order to ultimately get these sold to reposition them or is it just purely the disruptions in the CMBS market? I'm just wondering if there's incremental CapEx spend there that wasn't necessarily in the numbers 6 12 months ago.
Yes.
I don't think that there is any additional CapEx in properties that we have for sale.
We really don't -- I wouldn't think there's any additional CapEx just because the property is one that we're looking at selling.
I mean we would lease the property the same as if we're going to keep it for the next 20 years.
And if the roof needs to get fixed we need to fix it.
[Operator Instructions] We have no further questions at this time.
Do you have any closing remarks? I just like to thank everybody for their interest in the company.
We'll be around if there are any further questions.
I hope everyone has a great day and thanks again for your interest in Weingarten.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Weingarten Realty First Quarter Earnings Conference.
My name is Brandon and I will be the operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Tim Goss.
Mr.
Goss you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our First Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Joining me today is Drew Alexander President and CEO; Stanford Alexander Chairman; Johnny Hendrix Executive Vice President and COO; Steve Richter Executive Vice President and CFO; Robert Smith Senior Vice President; and Joe Shafer Senior Vice President and CAO.
As a reminder certain statements made during the course of this call are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and change in circumstances.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
More information about these factors is contained in the company's SEC filings.
Also during this conference call management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial  measures such as funds from operations or FFO which we believe help analysts and investors to better understand Weingarten's operating results.
Reconciliation to this non-GAAP financial measure is available in our supplemental information package located under the Investor Relations tab of our website.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Drew Alexander.
Thank you Tim and thanks to all of you for joining our call.
At our Investor Day presentation in April of last year we highlighted 3 strategic objectives: One further improving operations and leasing our portfolio back to 95-plus percent occupancy; two continuing the improvement in the quality of our portfolio through recycling of capital by selling noncore properties and acquiring or developing assets in high barrier entry markets with strong growth prospects; and three improving our financial position by slightly delevering our balance sheet.
We've made great progress on all 3 goals.
We've adjusted the specifics of our plan as opportunities and challenges have surfaced but we've remained focused and committed to achieving our ultimate objectives.
Our decision to exit the industrial business will contribute significantly to achieving our goals.
As announced last month we contracted to sell our wholly owned industrial portfolio for $382 million.
This portfolio includes 52 properties aggregating 9.6 million square feet priced at about an 8% cap rate based upon our 2012 budget.
The sale to DRA is progressing nicely and we expect to close in the next 30 days.
We are also working on the disposition of our industrial joint venture interests.
This will transform WRI into a pure-play retail REIT and significantly simplify our story.
The proceeds from the sale will be used to reduce debt achieving our goal to delever the balance sheet.
We remain focused on operating and improving the quality of our retail portfolio.
We produced exceptional first quarter operating results.
I'm pleased to announce that we're on track to deliver a guidance of 4% to 5% Same Property NOI with 4.8% retail growth in Q1.
Additionally we saw solid improvements in both occupancy and rent growth.
This is clearly a great way to start 2012.
I will quickly review the industrial metrics for the quarter so Johnny can focus his remarks solely on our retail portfolio.
While the broader industrial markets are improving we had a few specific challenges and therefore Same Property NOI was a negative 3.1% and occupancy was down 2.7% for the quarter both primarily due to the fallout of a few tenants.
Rental rates were also down slightly.
This was in line with our business plan and more detailed metrics are available in our supplemental package.
Even with the industrial sale we remain dedicated to the goal of improving the quality of our portfolio by selling our secondary properties.
We're targeting dispositions of retail assets of $150 million to $250 million for all of 2012.
By pruning our lower-tier assets we will provide greater clarity as to the true quality of the vast majority of our portfolio.
We remain focused on recycling this capital into quality acquisitions in new development.
The market remains incredibly competitive in these arenas but we will maintain our disciplined pursuit of opportunities.
Johnny will discuss our acquisition program a little later.
Turning to our new development efforts.
We continue to make good progress on our pipeline of 11 properties.
In the last quarter our strong leasing efforts improved our net percentage lease by 270 basis points and we're on track to finish these projects which represent an investment of almost $200 million at an average ROI of 7.2%.
We continue to pursue new projects in multiple markets and are confident our development expertise will add shareholder value.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Steve to discuss our financial results.
Thanks Drew.
We had a great quarter.
Recurring FFO was $0.46 per diluted share for the quarter versus $0.42 last year an increase of 9.5%.
This was a result of reduced interest expense as we refinanced debt maturity and further increased commenced occupancy.
An increase in G&amp;A offset these gains slightly.
Reported FFO was $0.46 per share compared to $0.41 per share in 2011.
During the quarter we recognized $2 million in impairment including an impairment of $3.2 million on our wholly owned shopping center held for sale and a $6.6 million impairment was recorded against our investment in an industrial JV accounted for under the equity method.
Since both of these impairments relate to operating properties they were added back to net income in arriving at reported FFO.
The remaining $244 000 of impairment relates to unimproved land and therefore is not added back in arriving at reported FFO but is added back in arriving at recurring FFO.
Please see Page 45 of the supplemental for further description of these impairments and how they flow through our financial statements.
The G&amp;A increase in the quarter was primarily a result of the acceleration of expensing equity awards under our long-term incentive program as some executives reach retirement-eligible status.
We anticipate quarterly G&amp;A for all of 2012 will bounce around a bit due to the onetime retirement-eligible item just mentioned.
Additionally we will recognize onetime severance costs once the industrial transaction closes but this also results in overhead savings going forward.
For 2013 we expect stabilized annual run rate for G&amp;A to be around $27 million.
Updating our guidance given the anticipated industrial sale we expect to achieve recurring FFO in the range of $1.76 to $1.84 per share.
This guidance assumes the sale of our wholly owned industrial assets by the end of the second quarter the sale of the industrial JVs which is in the range of $40 million to $45 million and $150 million to $250 million of retail dispositions for all of 2012 of which we've already closed $54 million year-to-date.
The execution of this plan would bring total dispositions for the year using the midpoint of our guidance to around $625 million.
Guidance for same-store NOI growth of 4% to 5% acquisitions of $125 million to $175 million and $75 million to $100 million of investment in new development all remain as previously communicated.
All of these assumptions are outlined on Page 46 of the supplemental.
As Drew mentioned the completion of the industrial transaction will have a significant positive impact on our balance sheet.
We will pay off our $200 million term loan and the remaining proceeds will reduce the outstanding balance on our $500 million line of credit to around $100 million at June 30.
At the end of the year our revised 2012 business plan has our debt-to-total assets at around 39% our fixed charge on stabilized basis would be at about 3x and our net debt-to-EBITDA would be less than 5.5x.
This is clearly a tremendous improvement to our already strong balance sheet.
2012 is turning out to be a transformative year for WRI.
In closing I'd like to point out some additional disclosures we've added this quarter.
Starting on Page 31 of the supplemental you will find we have added occupancy by location and further we have updated the average base rents by location.
Johnny? Thanks Steve.
As we're exiting the industrial business my remarks this morning refer specifically to our retail portfolio.
First I want to say I'm proud of the results we produced this quarter and I appreciate all the efforts of our associates.
We still have a lot of work ahead of us to achieve our mid- and long-term goals but we have some wind at our back and we seem to be approaching that long-awaited tipping point where we'll see more balanced negotiating leverage with our retail tenants.
Year-to-date retail sales have exceeded expectations and our shopping centers anchored primarily by supermarkets and discount ready-to-wear retailers continue to improve.
We're also seeing economic conditions within our geographic footprint continue to improve.
Over 50% of all the jobs created so far during 2012 have been in states where we operate.
Weingarten's Sunbelt strategy was severely tested through this recession but we're now seeing the re-emergence of many of the positive features we expected: Higher job growth higher population growth and a lower cost of living.
The 4.8% same property NOI we reported yesterday is our best quarterly increase since 2005 and a great start to achieve the guidance of 4% to 5%.
The bulk of our annual same property NOI increase is driven by 4 components: First the full year effect of leases commenced in 2011; second the commencement of leases already signed which commenced during 2012; and third contractual rent steps.
There's still a lot of work to be done ensuring leases commence on schedule.
But for the most part these first 3 components are in good shape.
The bulk of the remaining work lies in the fourth category leases projected to be signed and commenced this year.
So long as we maintain our leasing velocity we've produced over the last 4 quarters we'll meet the guidance.
While most states contributed to the same property NOI increase Texas and California which make up 43% of our overall same property NOI performed best.
We experienced slight declines in same property NOI in Nevada Arizona and New Mexico but these states have significant commencements in coming months and we're looking for improvements in those states through the rest of 2012.
As I mentioned on the last call same property NOI will be a little lumpy through the year.
As a result of some onetime bad debt recoveries in 2011 we anticipate a 1.5% to 2% increase next quarter then accelerating through the rest of the year.
Occupancy increased again this quarter to 93.4%.
That's from 93% last quarter and 92.3% a year ago.
Notably while we commenced 760 000 square feet in the last 6 months we still have a 230 basis point spread between signed and commenced occupancy.
23% of that square footage signed and not commenced is in Nevada New Mexico and Arizona which is why I'm confident they will contribute to future NOI increases.
Our shop occupancy increased to 86.8% at quarter end.
That's 170 basis point increase from the year ago and above our peer average.
A significant contributor to occupancy gains and same property improvements is the continued reduction in the tenant fallout.
We experienced about half the fallout in the first quarter of 2012 than a year ago.
That's the lowest fallout since 2006.
A review of our watch list and our current AR indicate this positive trend is likely to continue.
Leasing production continues to be consistent.
We signed 376 leases during the quarter representing $23 million in annual rent.
This represents 129 new leases and 247 renewals for $6 million and $17 million in annual rent respectively.
Generally this is in the same range we have produced for the last several quarters and I would expect positive absorption over the balance of the year.
Hence our confidence in the 4% to 5% same property NOI guidance.
Renewals are also doing well.
We've completed 70% of all renewals for 2012 which again is in line with our experience last year.
We've been busy scheduling meetings for our annual ICSC RECon Convention in May.
We will be talking with hundreds of tenants and brokers solidifying relationships and discussing renewals and new leases.
Our initial indication is RECon will be well attended with national and regional shop tenants eager to expand.
The convention is a great supplement to our global meeting plan.
We've already been meeting with regional and national shop tenants reviewing opportunities.
These are tenants like Chipotle SmashBurger Rue 21 Carter's and the Vitamin Shoppe.
Our global meetings have proven to be very productive and have resulted in numerous new leases and renewals.
We recognize our continued growth lies with our spaces under 10 000 square feet and we're very focused on marketing those opportunities.
We recently announced the branding of long-standing efforts into a program we called shop-centric.
This program bundles many of the services we've always offered our tenants.
We simplify lease negotiations provide consultation on marketing strategies assist in permitting and partner with our tenants in order to build a relationship to help them succeed in our shopping centers.
You can see the details of this program by clicking the ShopCentric icon on our website.
Rent growth for the quarter was also positive with an increase of 5.1%.
New leases were up 4.1% and renewals were up 5.3%.
The company has consistently emphasized occupancy over the last several years willing to give up immediate rent increases if we can stay short term or get good contractual increases.
Our strategy to give up short-term rent growth appears to be paying off as we're now enjoying good rent bumps and renewing short-term releases with solid increases.
We remain focused on our capital recycling program.
We sold 10 assets for $47 million during the quarter and since the end of the quarter have closed an additional $6 million and have an additional $140 million of property under contract or negotiating a letter of intent.
We closed $22 million of acquisitions during the first quarter mostly opportunistic purchases including a freestanding Best Buy in the Galleria area which is an expansion of our Richmond Square shopping center in Houston and a Triple Net HEB lease in Houston.
These properties have average household incomes of $107 000 with 131 000 people in a 3-mile radius.
We have $30 million of additional acquisitions under contract now expect to end the year within the guidance we've confirmed.
So in summary we had a great quarter but we still have challenges ahead and we look forward to successfully meeting those challenges.
Drew? Thanks Johnny.
I mentioned at the beginning of the call that we are focused on 3 strategic objectives: One further improving operations and returning to 95-plus percent occupancy.
Each 1% occupancy gain adds approximately $0.05 per share.
Two continued improvement in the quality of our portfolio through capital recycling.
And three continued improvement of our strong balance sheet and financial metrics.
We've made significant progress in each of these areas during the quarter.
Clearly the industrial disposition is a watershed event for this company.
The corresponding strengthening of our balance sheet is obviously important.
Our strong same property NOI increase and recurring FFO growth for the quarter highlights the momentum we are gaining in operations and we are confident in our ability to continue to further improve occupancy and the repositioning of our portfolio according to plan.
Certainly this is one of the best overall quarters we've had in quite some time.
We are also optimistic about the remainder of 2012.
Our guidance of $1.76 to $1.84 will require us to continue to push hard but we are confident we will achieve this growth.
I'm very proud of our team and all the effort put forth by all of our associates in producing such a strong quarter.
I want to thank our board for the counsel and advice they provide and I want to thank all of you for joining the call today and for your continued interest in Weingarten.
Operator we'll now be happy to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And from Wells Fargo we have Jeffrey Donnelly online.
LLC Research Division</strong> The first question I think is maybe split between Steve and Johnny.
Are you guys able to quantify for us what portion of the growth behind your 2012 NOI growth guidance is signed but not commenced versus I'll call it not signed and thus not commenced? I'm just trying to figure out how much of your future growth might be in the bag if you will.
Jeff we have about $3 million that is not signed and not commenced that needs to be completed in order to achieve the goal.
That gives you a sense of it.
So that's a relatively small percentage of the overall.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then maybe just for you Johnny.
I mean it's 2 parts.
But we are seeing renewed demand from the small retailers.
The shop occupancy gains in the quarter are outpacing your broader reach of portfolio.
I guess first what do you think's triggering that resurgence? Is it higher confidence from retailers in adding stores? Or has there been some change maybe in some of the incentives you guys are providing versus say 12 to 24 months ago and...
We really...
LLC Research Division</strong> The other thing -- and secondarily is there some like different type of tenant that you're seeing today versus 2 years ago? Are they more national regional or even more sort of local mom-and-pop type? Yes let me actually get to the first -- the second question first.
And I would say generally speaking we're seeing many more national and regional than mom-and-pop.
There is not a lot of new creation of what I would consider to be mom-and-pop businesses today.
Most of the space that we're leasing today is national and regional tenants.
I would tell you that the techniques and the discipline that we're using to lease the space today is the same as we have for the last many years.
And I think we probably have increased a little bit the number of folks that we've had over the last couple of years.
But other than that we're not really adding any incentives that are special.
From Cowen and Company we have Jim Sullivan online.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question I guess for Johnny and/or Steve.
In your revised guidance you raised your signed occupancy number and kept the same property NOI number the same.
The spread number remains the same negative 1 to 2.
You had a pretty good quarter on spreads so I wondered if you could just talk about why you weren't able to raise that spread number a little bit number one.
And number two just thinking I don't want to get too far ahead here but thinking about the progression of your same store NOI in the last cycle you were -- at its peak you were getting spreads in the 10% to 15% range.
And I just wonder if you have a feel for do you know when you might be able to think about numbers like that looking forward? Again let me answer the second question first.
I think it's coming.
I'm not totally certain when it is and I will tell you that we are very -- remain very focused on occupancy.
I'm hopeful that by the beginning of next year we could start seeing spreads like that so that's kind of where I think we are.
In terms of the occupancy guidance and why we didn't raise it more I think that the issue you kind of got to look at is the industrial portfolio is only 10% of the NOI but it's certainly significantly more than that on a square footage basis.
So the effect of that kind of offsets the total guidance that we can have and this was the retail occupancy from the very beginning.
And pretty much so far this year we have been moving forward according to plan.
I think both the fallout and the leasing and the commencement of leases has been pretty consistent with the plan that we initially outlined.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just to be clear when you use the word fallout you're referring to tenants who are closing stores prior to the expiration of the lease as opposed to just tenants who dont renew? This will include both tenants who just don't renew and tenants who close their store before -- these are tenants that are leaving the space for one reason or another and not paying rent.
From RBC Capital Markets we have Rich Moore online.
LLC Research Division</strong> As you unwind the 2 industrial joint ventures does that change what you're doing with BIT and Eagle? Do those I guess just go away as joint venture partners? We have a -- Rich it's Drew.
We have a separate joint venture for retail assets with BIT so that would we anticipate continue.
But if we are successful -- or as we are successful in working through things with a partner yes then the Eagle and the BIT industrial we will transition out of those.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so does that change your thinking in general about joint venture partners? I guess not really it doesnt sound like.
No not at all.
We've had joint venture partners for at least 40 years that I can think of.
And in the right circumstances I think it's a fabulous way to leverage our operating platform our expertise and a lot of other advantages as well.
So with a number of good partners -- and both Anaco [ph] which is Eagle and BIT are great partners.
And I think they understand that for strategic reasons having nothing to do with these partnerships we made the decision to exit industrial and we've been in touch with them about it for months and I'm optimistic we'll get it resolved in a good way this year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second thing -- the second thing if I could on the development portfolio.
It seemed like Sheridan and Hilltop both saw some increases in expected costs for those 2 projects.
Do you have any thoughts on those in particular and maybe anything else inside the pipeline that might be rising in cost? I'll take Sheridan and then Robert who's been intimately involved in Hilltop can chime in.
There's nothing significant.
We're making some progress slowly but surely at Sheridan working with some different restaurants and some other tenants.
So we're actually pleased there that we see more activity and are looking at investing some more money.
And then Robert can talk about Hilltop.
Yes.
Hilltop we broke ground on that in March.
and it's a 2-year build-out process before it opens so you're really seeing the growing cost from the construction.
And in a couple of years we'll start to see the income.
And we're 70% preleased there so  we're in really good shape and we're seeing rents continue to appreciate so it's going according to plan right now.
From JPMorgan we have Michael Mueller online.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering once you get past 2012 and just thinking about dispositions going forward I mean how do you look at what you want to accomplish over the next few years? I mean obviously this is a big year but do you remain active in '13 and 14? Do you contemplate selling call it $100 million $200 million a year just as a normal program or...
Yes Michael this is Johnny.
I think we do continue.
I think this is the normal course of business for us going forward to continue to cull the portfolio to have the best-quality properties that we can.
I think at the Investor Day in April we talked about somewhere around $600 million in -- over a number of years and I think a $200 million number going forward wouldn't be unreasonable.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just following along those lines should we be thinking of just same existing markets and just getting rid of stuff that you don't see that has as much growth in it in the existing markets? Or would you plan on changing what your map looks like at some point by getting out of some markets altogether? I think one of the things that we definitely want to do is take some of the states off the map where we don't have regional offices close by.
So mostly through central part of the U.S.
and then take some properties off of the map that are in states that we're in but aren't within 2 hours of one of our regional offices.
We want to continue to cluster our properties in regional areas and cities in -- basically in the same footprint that we're in.
From Deutsche Bank we have Vincent Chao online.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question on -- to your outlook for cap rates just over the past 3 months or so how that's changed if at all.
I think previously you were looking up roughly 8% on the dispositions and about 6% on the acquisitions.
And also I just wanted to get us some specific color on the quarterly disposition which came in at a 5.8% which is a -- pretty attractive there.
Yes Vincent this is John again.
I -- cap rates dont seem to have moved much in the beginning of the year.
And I think reasonable for the model to be 8% to 8.5% on the disposition side.
On the acquisition side I think 6% to 6.5% again is probably reasonable for the quality properties that we're looking at.
I'm sorry the next question was? Research Division</strong> Just for the quarter it was 5.8% for the dispo so it pointed lower.
Yes yes yes I'm sorry.
Yes on the disposition side we had a individual property that kind of skewed the number.
It would have been in that 8% to 8.5% range if not for a property that is -- was really a development property that was a little bit different.
So I think that the number looks a little better than it probably would otherwise.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then just a clean-up question.
Just you mentioned some severance charges that would come through I guess as a result of the industrial sale.
Can you give us a sense of what that number looks like? And I'm assuming that's out of -- not included in recurring FFO correct? That would be correct.
We don't know exactly since the industrial transaction has not closed yet.
But we're -- expect that to be somewhere in the $1 million to $1.5 million range.
From Chilton Capital we have Bruce Garrison online.
Steve with respect to the same-store NOI did I miss it in the supplemental? I saw the percent change but did you all provide the absolute dollar amount this year versus last year? No I don't think we have Bruce.
Oh you have not done so in the past either? No.
Oh okay.
All right.
Very good.
Is that something that you all may want to consider doing in the future? We always are looking at additional disclosure Bruce and we'll take a look at that one as well.
From Wells Fargo we have a follow-up from Jeffrey Donnelly.
LLC Research Division</strong> It is true -- I think in your remarks and in the press release you mentioned there's just shy of I think about $200 million of retail assets sold or under contract.
I'm suspecting there's more to come.
What percentage of the retail portfolio falls into I think that lower-tier group as you called it?  And do you have the metrics on how those assets did in NOI versus the rest of the portfolio? I'm going to let Johnny take that.
Jeff at the Investor Day the portfolio that we laid out there were 65 individual properties roughly 12% of the retail NOI.
We do not track those separately and have -- and I can tell you that generally they did not perform at the level of the overall average.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well is it fair to say that might be flat to down?  Or do you just think they're growing just a bit more slowly? I think they're growing just a little more slowly.
Many of them are in Texas and Texas has done exceptionally well.
But for the most part they have not performed at the level of the other properties.
LLC Research Division</strong> And Johnny just a follow-up.
Are you seeing tenant demand broaden out beyond just what I would call your highest-quality markets and maybe into I guess I'll call it like second- or third-tier parts of your portfolio or your assets? Or is -- tenants are still just pretty fairly focused? Well I think I made a joke to one of the leasing executives that we're not saving the best property for last.
And as we continue to lease properties yes we're leasing property that is more difficult to lease and could be in secondary markets.
So I think yes that's absolutely correct.
From MorningStar we have Philip Martin online.
Research Division</strong> Now that we're -- now that Weingarten has what appears to be some sustainable leasing demand and activity can you provide some insight into trends and tenant -- in terms of tenant space demands and lease terms along the tenant spectrum and looking at kind of the small mid-box and large tenants? And comparing that let's say today versus 5 years ago.
Again always easier for me to take that last question first.
Compared to 5 years ago the demand for everything is better than it has been.
Certainly those were kind of dark days but -- the phone wasn't ringing off the hook and we were trying to do -- lease anything we could.
I would tell you today with our box spaces over 97% leased we are being pretty selective both in renewals and in new leases and I think driving a little bit harder bargain than we did several years ago.
I would say that's probably true in that kind of midsize box.
On the shop space there does seem to be not nearly the pricing power that we have in the boxes even though the better spaces and this is a business that's corner by corner and space by space.
And when you get a good space you can really drive the rent and you can really get some competition amongst retailers.
And again most of the retailers we're doing business with today particularly in the shop space or national and regional folks many of which are public companies and do need to grow.
And as we do not have any new development going on most of that growth is going to need to occur in properties that exist today.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Would you say lease terms today are as strong as pre-crisis levels? Probably in some markets.
Texas is -- actually has the highest occupancy we've had since -- I've been with the company for 27 years.
So we probably have some pricing power here.
But you still have I think some overhang of some vacant spaces some vacant shopping centers around so you probably don't have the pricing power that you had in 2006.
And I think that's what we talked about earlier that hopefully by the time we get to 2013 we can get back to that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And with regard to that first question.
In terms of tenant space demands are you seeing the mid to larger tenants looking for less space more space? Oh no no.
The junior boxes the 20 000 25 000 30 000 square-foot tenants again are mostly public companies and I would say there's more demand in that area than there is space.
So I think you're continuing to see more and more of that as we go on.
[Operator Instructions] From Cowen and Company we have Jim Sullivan online.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes quickly I just have a follow-up question.
You had talked in the prepared comments about where some of those debt metrics will be getting to by the end of the year with the completion of the industrial sale 5.5x net debt to EBITDA in the fixed charge coverage.
Maybe if you could just help us going forward again think about particularly as development opportunities present themselves what kind of ratios you want to maintain with those 2 metrics? Yes Jim.
I think just the be clear those metrics that we used are with the completion of our business plan so it does include the industrial as well as executing the balance of the guidance items that we laid out in the revised 2012 guidance.
I think going forward probably the easiest way to articulate it is on a total leverage basis.
We think in the high 30% call it 38% in that neighborhood is where we'd like to run the company.
I think that probably equates to something in the 5.5-ish range for net debt-to-EBITDA.
And I think that will yield a fantastic fixed charge coverage as well.
I will now turn it back over to Drew for any final remarks.
Well thank you very much for your interest in Weingarten.
We appreciate your joining us on the call this morning.
We look forward to seeing many of you at the RECon Convention in Las Vegas in a few weeks and then also at New York in maybe in about a month.
Thanks so much for your interest and we'll be around later if there are further questions.
Thanks again.
And this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Weingarten Realty Second Quarter Earnings Conference.
My name is Brandon and I'll be the operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn it over to Michelle Wiggs.
Michelle you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter 2012 conference call.
Joining me today is Drew Alexander President and CEO; Stanford Alexander Chairman; Johnny Hendrix Executive Vice President and COO; Steve Richter Executive Vice President and CFO; Robert Smith Senior Vice President; and Joe Shafer Senior Vice President and CAO.
As a reminder certain statements made during the course of this call are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
More information about these factors is contained in the company's SEC filings.
Also during this conference call management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial  measures such as funds from operations or FFO as recurring and reported which we believe help analysts and investors to better understand Weingarten's operating results.
Reconciliation to these non-GAAP financial measures is available in our supplemental information package located under the Investor Relations tab of our website.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Drew Alexander.
Thank you Michelle and thanks to all of you for joining our call.
First of all I want to announce the addition of 2 new Trust Managers to our Board Shelaghmichael Brown and Tom Ryan.
You can see their accomplished backgrounds in the press release we issued yesterday.
I'd also like to introduce Michelle Wiggs who will be helping us interface with all of you.
Michelle has been with the company 10 years.
She is a CPA who started in our accounting department and for the last 6 years she's been supporting Johnny in our leasing area and operational analysis and she's looking forward to helping to answer your questions.
Now to our results.
During the quarter we made significant progress in achieving the 3 strategic objectives that we continue to highlight over the past quarters.
The objectives are: number 1 to further improve operations and leasing our portfolio back to 95-plus-percent occupancy; number 2 continue improving the quality of our portfolio through recycling of capital by selling non-core properties and acquiring or developing assets in high barrier to entry markets with strong growth prospects; and number 3 improving our financial position by slightly delevering our balance sheet.
We made great progress on all 3 initiatives.
The profitability of our core portfolio continues to improve.
Retail occupancy continued to move upward to 93.7% with a significant increase in small shop leasing driven by a 30 basis point increase from the first quarter and a 130 basis point increase from the second quarter of 2011.
Combined with reasonably strong rental rate increases this led to another strong quarter of same property NOI growth with a year-to-date increase over the last year of a strong 3.8%.
We are confident we will attain our full-year goal of 4% to 5%.
As to our capital recycling we closed on the sale of our wholly owned industrial assets in the latter part of May generating net proceeds of $363 million.
We are on track to dispose of the remaining industrial assets held in joint ventures before the end of the year.
During the quarter we also generated another $46 million from the sale of other assets primarily shopping centers in our secondary portfolio.
Of this $400 million of capital we redeployed nearly $130 million with the purchase of 2 outstanding shopping centers one of them subsequent to quarter-end.
Both of these new centers are in outstanding locations with significant barriers to entry and great demographics.
Our activity in this quarter clearly exemplifies how we're enhancing the quality of our portfolio through our recycling program.
Looking at the numbers.
We've generated significantly more cash this quarter than we have chosen to invest.
This has enabled us to more than accomplish the last leg of our 3 strategic objectives by significantly reducing our overall leverage.
This positions us to purchase additional assets and still maintain overall leverage that puts us among the upper tier of our peer group a position we intend to maintain.
Turning briefly to our new development efforts.
We continue to make good progress on our pipeline of 11 properties.
In the last quarter our strong leasing improved our net percentage lease by over 400 basis points and we recorded completions of $12.2 million highlighted by the strong opening of Ross at our Tomball development in the Houston area.
We're on track to finish these projects which represent an investment of almost $200 million at an average ROI of 7%.
We continue to pursue new projects in multiple markets and are confident our development expertise will add significant future shareholder value.
We had a really great quarter.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Steve to discuss our financial results in more detail.
Thanks Drew.
Recurring FFO was $0.47 per diluted share for the quarter versus $0.44 last year an increase of 6.8%.
This was a result of reduced interest expense as we refinanced debt maturities and an increase in commenced occupancy offset by lease cancellation income of $1.2 million in 2011 that did not reoccur in the second quarter.
Reported FFO was $0.45 per share compared to $0.28 per share in 2011.
During the quarter we recognized $25 million in noncash impairments including an impairment of $5 million which was recorded on wholly owned shopping centers being actively marketed for sale and an additional $7.8 million which relates to retail properties held in joint ventures.
Finally $12.1 million of impairments were recorded against properties in an industrial JV accounted for under the equity method.
Upon the sale of these properties which are expected to close by year-end we will recognize a gain of nearly $12 million upon the liquidation of our equity method investment.
This accounting is somewhat unusual so please contact us off-line if you want further details.
Since all of these impairments relate to operating properties they were added back to net income and arriving at reported FFO.
Please see Page 43 of the supplemental for a further description of these impairments and how they flow through our financial statements as they are recorded on multiple line items.
I want to quickly touch on the impact the industrial transaction and our other disposition activity has had on our balance sheet.
Our debt to total market cap has decreased from 39.4% on a pro rata basis at the end of last quarter to 36.3% at June 30 with our stock price relatively unchanged.
This is even better today with the recent improvement in our share price.
Our net debt to EBITDA went down to 6.62x at March 31 to 5.89x at June 30.
This is obviously a tremendous improvement and it positions us among the best in our peer group.
While we believe this provides us some drive power for future acquisitions in new development investment we clearly understand the emphasis the investment community places on low leverage today.
Our current strategy is to keep our leverage under 40% going forward.
With respect to 2012 guidance we are pleased to increase our acquisition target to a range of $200 million to $250 million and also raise the lower end of our recurring FFO guidance from $1.76 to $1.84 per share thus narrowing our guidance range to $1.78 to $1.84 per share.
We remain comfortable with the balance of our prior guidance which can be found in our supplemental package.
Lastly I'd like to address overhead.
Included in this quarter's results is approximately $2.1 million of severance expense related to the industrial transaction.
This expense is included in the line item operating income from discontinued operations and has been added back to arrive at recurring FFO.
We do not anticipate any additional industrial severance expense going forward.
With respect to G&amp;A expense we expect the second half to run about $6.5 million per quarter.
With that I'll give it to Johnny.
Thanks Steve.
We did have a solid quarter.
Occupancy is up leasing velocity remains steady tenant fallout is at a 5-year low rent growth is up same Property NOI is good and finally we continue to make progress with our recycling program.
These advancements in our operating metrics are a continuation of steady improvements over the last 18 months and we appear to be in a position to continue moving forward through the balance of 2012.
Several factors contribute to my optimism even in spite of an unstable economic environment.
First a retail lineup is primarily focused on providing necessities services and discount clothing.
While other retail sales have slowed our retailers have found growth opportunities serving budget-constrained consumers who still must buy necessities and are focused on value offered by many of our retailers like TJX and Ross.
Second today 76% of our retailers are national or regional operators.
Many are publicly held and focused on growth.
As long as we continue to see very little new inventory produced I feel good we will continue filling our existing space.
Retailers are showing more flexibility on prototype size and cotenancy as they search for new growth.
Finally our geographic footprint is positioned to capture a disproportionate share of new job growth.
Almost 50% of all the jobs created in the U.S.
over the last 12 months have occurred within the states where we operate.
This portfolio is well positioned for the future.
As I mentioned earlier retail occupancy continues to improve.
This is the fifth consecutive quarter we've seen an increase.
Our retail shop occupancy ended the quarter at 87.8% the highest in our peer group.
This is a clear indication of our superior operating platform and the high quality of our portfolio.
Texas and California are leading the way in occupancy both in excess of 95%.
Drilling a little deeper Houston is 96% occupied and South Texas is over 97% leased.
One of the significant factors contributing to the steady increase for the entire portfolio is the dramatic reduction in the number of tenants falling out.
During the first half of this year 190 tenant leases terminated.
This represents $8.8 million in annualized rent.
That's a reduction of 42% from a year ago and over 50% from the depths of 2009.
As we review our accounts receivable and watch list we feel good this positive trend will continue.
Leasing velocity has remained steady a significant accomplishment as we continue to reduce inventory.
We leased 380 retail spaces for $17.2 million last quarter.
This includes $7.2 million in new leases and $10 million in renewals.
This production is similar to the last several quarters and is made up mostly of tenants focused on value and service.
Our fast casual fast bites category continues to lead small shop production.
Retailers such as Starbucks SUBWAY and Chipotle are healthy and growing.
The second leading group of tenants we are leasing to is our At Your Service category.
These are service- and health-focused tenants for example Pacific Dental Weight Watchers and Nationwide Insurance.
During the first half of the year our retail rent growth was better than we had expected at 4.6%.
This is made up of a 4.5% increase in renewals and a 4.9% increase in new leases.
As we continue to see occupancy tightening I expect to gain some negotiating leverage.
In most cases today the retailer still maintains an advantage but we are seeing this beginning to shift.
We reported Same Property NOI for our retail property of 2.9% this quarter.
We knew this would be our most difficult quarterly comparison primarily because of several positive onetime events in 2011 but we actually did better than we had expected.
We got some tenants to open early and we had lower than expected bad debt expense driven in part by the reduced fallout I mentioned earlier.
Looking forward the bulk of the increases over the second half of the year are coming from leases already executed.
We do still need to sign a few new tenants who can open in the fourth quarter but the risk to not achieving greater than 4% gains is clearly unanticipated retailer fallout.
That's why we're optimistic the company can achieve the 4% to 5% Same Property NOI we've guided to.
As Drew mentioned our recycling program continues to advance.
As of the end of the second quarter we saw $476 million in assets.
The bulk of this is the industrial sale but also includes 22 retail assets representing $88 million.
I expect us to finish the year within the guidance of $570 million to $680 million set out on Page 44 of the supplemental.
We continue to sell our secondary assets on a one-off basis.
This certainly takes longer but I think this is the best course to maximize our value on these assets.
On the acquisitions front we found some really good shopping centers to reinvest some of our proceeds.
As of the end of the quarter we acquired over $121 million in assets.
The average population within 3 miles is over 224 000 people and the average household income is in excess of $104 000 per year.
We're really excited about our 8000 Sunset acquisition.
The shopping center's anchored by Trader Joe's Crate &amp; Barrel CB2 concept Sundance Cinema and Crunch Fitness.
It's located in West Hollywood California and has average household incomes of over $100 000 a year.
That's impressive for a population of over 240 000 people in 3 miles.
One of the unique features of the property is a 5-level subterranean garage which offers over 890 parking spaces.
That densely populated urban environment we see this as another anchor to the project.
We do business with many of these tenants already and we've had success operating urban multilevel shopping centers with projects like our Centre at Post Oak Village Arcade and River Oaks Shopping Center so we're pleased to add this one to the collection.
Since the end of the quarter we've also purchased Roswell Crossing Shopping Center in Roswell Georgia it's a suburb of Atlanta.
Again high incomes almost $130 000 per year and 66% college graduates.
The center features market leaders Trader Joe's and PetSmart.
We have a couple of additional projects we expect to close during the third quarter so we're increasing the acquisition guidance to $200 million to $250 million for 2012.
We should be around a 6.5% stabilized return on these assets we acquired this year.
So wrapping up we feel we're going in the right direction occupancy is up Same Property NOI is solid rent growth is increasing our tenant fallout is decreasing and our recycling program is moving ahead.
Drew? Thanks Johnny.
We've clearly made significant progress this quarter on the 3 strategic goals outlined earlier.
First occupancy is up including small shop occupancy.
Each 1% of increase in occupancy adds about $0.05 per share of FFO annually and as pointed out earlier with the equivalent of 2.7% in occupancy where the lease is already signed but the rent has not yet commenced.
Second over $130 million of capital was reallocated from secondary properties into high-quality assets.
And finally our balance sheet is quite strong.
We expect to finish the remainder of the industrial transaction and we'll continue our focus on the disposition of the balance of our secondary portfolio.
Clearly there are economic headwinds that create uncertainty about the future but our company is well positioned to operate in this environment and may even take advantage of opportunities that arise.
Meanwhile this was an outstanding quarter of operating results and we're optimistic that we can continue this performance going forward.
I'm very proud of our team and the effort put forth by all of our associates in producing such a strong quarter.
I want to thank all of you for joining the call today and your continued interest in Weingarten.
Operator we'd now be happy to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Craig Schmidt from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just focusing on the occupancy gain for those spaces smaller than 10 000 I was wondering if you could kind of categorize them particularly in terms of national tenants versus local? And then the other thing would that -- who were the tenants that were driving some of that occupancy gain? Craig roughly 50% 55% of the retailers that we're releasing to shop space are national and regional tenants.
What you have to also remember is that they're basically replacing almost all local tenants so that's where you've seen the increase in the overall regional and national tenants to 76% of the entire portfolio.
Most of the smaller tenants that we are -- local tenants that we're finding were actually moving from 1 center to another.
There's not a lot of new formation of these local operators so we're moving them to what we consider to be the better centers.
And when you look at kind of drilling into the actual tenants most of what we're doing is service type tenants and dentists doctors.
And then you have nail salons and small operators like that the food category continues to be very big with fast food and family dining pizza restaurants Asian buffets those sorts of things.
Research Division</strong> And going forward do you think you can still pick up occupancy sequentially in this under-10 000 group? I believe I can.
And certainly if we're going to meet the same store NOI goal that we've been talking about we'll need to do that.
But yes I think that we definitely will continue to pick up.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of just the local tenants are -- is access to capital a reason for them of being less active? Or do you see there's something else that's causing that shift away from them? Craig for the most part it seems like there's access to capital for folks who are interested in starting these new businesses I don't really see that as something that's blocking that.
I just think a lot of them are not prepared with the environment that they're looking at.
They don't really know where they're going to be in terms of the tax regime and they're nervous.
I mean there are still clouds on the horizon in terms of the fiscal cliff at Europe and there are a lot of reasons not to start a small business today.
And I think that's a lot of what we are experiencing.
From MorningStar we have Philip Martin on line.
Research Division</strong> Just in terms of tenant demand.
On the renewals and tenants looking for space are you seeing any incremental changes in tenant demand trends over the last 12 months? I mean certainly we're dealing with a lot of uncertainty in the economy.
And again I'm just interested always in the trends over the last 6 to 12 months and if there are any incremental changes given the diversity you see in your portfolio you're talking with a lot of different types of retailers.
Yes.
Philip we have not seen in the last 12 months a lot of change.
I mean if you look at the leasing velocity it's remained pretty steady from quarter-to-quarter over the last 4 quarters.
We certainly moved a lot of the leasing efforts from the boxes which was mostly the junior department stores TJ Maxx and Ross to the shop space over the last several quarters.
So from that perspective that's really the only change I would see.
The demand I think is about the same in the shop space.
I just don't see a lot of change.
Again most of the people -- many of the people we're dealing with are public companies and they just haven't moved that fast in terms of how they're going to change their decisions to open new stores.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Obviously with velocity leasing velocity up and tenant demand up and that's having a positive impact on occupancies are you having to turn away tenants in retail? I'll tell you anecdotally we're experiencing a number of situations where there are more than 1 tenant trying to get a space.
We recently had a space become available here in Houston that was a restaurant and we ended up with 3 separate tenants all very excited to try to be able to get the space.
So that certainly does help our leverage in the negotiating position and that's why I think over time I think you'll see some of that leverage shift to us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last question just on acquisitions.
You spoke of a 6.5% stabilized yield what's the time it will take to reach that stabilization period? And I'm assuming you're probably looking at some of these acquisitions doing some value-added work et cetera what's the time to reach that stabilized yield? Is it 6 months? Is it 12 months? Yes.
The -- generally speaking we're looking at a 3-year out on that number.
I'll tell you in terms of the current yield on those properties it's about 6.2% so it's not a big movement in that third year.
But generally when we look at an acquisition we're looking at a 3-year out that gives us time to come in and take tenants out put new tenants in for whatever capital we have in and things kind of smooth out in that period of time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That was my next question where are they entering so 6.2% to 6.5% over a 3-year timeframe? Yes.
From Cowen and Company we have Jim Sullivan on line.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up question on the occupancy rate I believe at the peak of the last cycle your occupancy rate peaked at just over 95%.
And I just wonder as you think about the outlook going forward and maybe particularly given what you've been doing with the portfolio whether you think that is likely to be the peak in the cycle? Or do you think you might actually be able to achieve a higher number? I think that it's reasonable today to expect a little bit higher number with the better asset we have with a lot of the dispositions that we recycled the assets.
And with the lack of new space I mean that is an enormous driver and what I think we'll see occupancy do over the next couple of years.
The -- to develop a new shopping center could take 2 to 3 years so there's just not going to be a lot of new space on the horizon.
And again many of these retailers are public companies and they need to grow so I expect that it could go higher than 95%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a second question as that occurs typically your spreads continue to widen out.
And again looking at the performance over the last cycle I think the spreads peaked and these are cash spreads I believe they peaked at 16%.
And again really the same question for that I mean how do you feel? I know that you don't collect or don't always get sales data from your tenants but clearly some of your markets are performing exceptionally well.
How do you feel about the upside in terms of spreads as you move toward that 95% occupancy rate? I definitely think they're going to increase.
It's -- from where we are today it's hard to imagine 16%.
But I think they'll increase.
I would probably go somewhere between where they are there and now so I think a reasonable number could be 8% to 10%.
What you also have to remember is that as 2006 2007 leases turn which was really the height of the last cycle you're going to -- those are going to be tough comp numbers.
So -- but overall I think if you could get somewhere around 10% I think that it'd probably be a good number.
The other -- this is Drew.
The other point I think you have to factor in is at some point we will get back to an inflationary environment.
We have to as the economy strengthens and interest rates eventually change the commodities et cetera.
So when you go to price what a new space is likely to cost 3 4 5 however long in the future it is that the economy gets better I think that will fuel even stronger upward pressure that makes me a little more optimistic to get to that 16% level that we were at before.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the final question from me I think the Mountain region has been -- has lagged somewhat in terms of Same Property NOI growth.
And I'm just curious what your comments are and your sense is for the strength in those economies and the likely performance of the portfolio going forward.
That's primarily driven by Phoenix and by Las Vegas.
They were disproportionately hit by the Borders' closings.
I think if you'll -- if you kind of look at some of the other numbers their occupancy the design versus the commenced occupancy is doing well and I would actually look for them to probably drag the rest of the year.
But I think next year that's where you are going to see some of our increase in Same Property NOI growth as we're able to get some of these stores open.
Many of these stores we've reopened and I think the properties we have in Phoenix and Las Vegas are very very dense and have good incomes and I think will be some of the first to come back.
And you're already seeing some bounce back in the Phoenix and market overall.
From JP Morgan we have Michael Mueller on line.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
At quarter-end occupancy and not the lease rate posted it's about 90.6%.
I know you give guidance on lease for year-end but where do you see year-end occupancy penciling out? I think that I'm going to commence another 250 000 square feet of the space that I have signed so I'm not sure where that puts me I just -- I remember that number so another 50 basis points.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So a little over 91% then? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And for the Q3 acquisitions -- or for the acquisitions that are under contract that you expected to close in Q3 about how much more do you expect in Q3 tied to the new guidance versus stuff that's likely in Q4? Right around $84 million for the balance of Q3.
And I'll say I don't know how much more there will be the rest of the year.
Right now the pipeline is other than these properties fairly thin.
We had expected we would see some tax-driven opportunities but that has yet to happen.
And certainly if a property has debt on it it would be almost impossible to close it between now and the end of the year.
So it's possible we'll hit one or two others but probably not.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So $84 million in addition to what's closed already in the third quarter? Right.
From Robert W.
Baird &amp; Co.
we have Paula Poskon on line.
Research Division</strong> Could you tell us the purchase price and the going in cap rate on the Roswell acquisition? I think you could figure it out I think $31 million is the purchase rough price.
And I don't know on a by-property basis that we're going to disclose the cap rates.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then turning to development how is your underwriting of a new development opportunities today different from a year ago? What are you seeing on land prices and what are you assuming on construction costs? Generally speaking we have seen some rises in construction costs and that's where I was talking before that I think the opportunity to improve rents is great.
One of the things that is the benefit of today versus the 2006 is everything the owner appreciates that every developer is going to have a good set of at least conceptual drawings and get those specifically priced have all of the entitlements work et cetera.
Land prices vary tremendously across our geographic footprint but I would say that people who own a good quality land in the densely populated areas that we want to develop and our tenants want to go are willing to work with you on it from a time perspective but they're not willing to take any significant discount over what they perceive the market value.
And that's why there have been some additions to our pipeline and we do think our development prowess will add shareholder value.
We're being conservative about it but we don't see a super robust expansion of our pipeline.
We're selective the tenants are selective and the landowners for the good land aren't parting with it cheaply.
Research Division</strong> And then just again on the construction costs so is there -- are you thinking about it in terms of a 3% price 5% rise? Do you think about it in those terms or is it...
It very much depends on the market but I'd say it's generally higher than that.
It's more in the 10% 15% neighborhood and it depends very specifically what market you were looking at that there are tremendous differences between Florida Texas Pacific Northwest Southern California but it -- construction prices are definitely going up and in my opinion will continue to go up and go up dramatically as the economy gets some traction which it in my opinion eventually will.
Research Division</strong> And then just one final question.
What are you seeing in terms of employee turnover out in the field as clearly you're in some high job growth markets? Are you seeing -- starting to see any pressure on employee costs? I don't think significantly.
It's something that we stay on top of.
I think retention of good employees is 1 of our key strengths.
So we are seeing some pressures especially in some disciplines and we're responsive to that.
But generally speaking we have a pretty good dialogue with all of our associates so if they don't feel they're fairly treated they have opportunity to discuss that.
And we have I think very good retention and we do occasionally lose some good folks but it's pretty rare.
From Deutsche Bank we have Vincent Chao on line.
Research Division</strong> Just want to go back to the REIT spread conversation a little bit but maybe near term.
Just thinking about the better-than-expected first half spreads and the comments about improving pricing power when the occupancy goes up should we be thinking about the sort of 4%-ish for the back half? Vince I -- it's difficult to say.
There -- 1 of the things that -- we didn't change that in the guidance.
And one of the reasons we didn't is there just is some amount of uncertainty going forward.
And I will tell you we are going to continue to focus on occupancy.
So I didn't want to put more pressure on our folks in the field to get more rent.
So I think it's likely that it could be in that 4% range going forward but if I was going to run numbers I'd probably go in the 1% to 2%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is that -- that's more just a general caution? I mean is there something in the pipeline of deals that you're working on that would suggest it would drop to that level? There is nothing in the pipeline that would suggest that reduction.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the -- I know you're pretty confident hitting the 4% to 5% for the full year but you did mention that it would require a little bit of additional leasing activity that would commence in the fourth quarter than you have signed today.
Just wondering -- assuming that that didn't come through where do you think same-store NOI would pencil out at the end of the year just based on what you've already signed? In the really high 3s.
Research Division</strong> High 3s okay.
And this is the last question just on the held for sale pool that's currently in the balance sheet.
Just wondering what level of NOI is coming off of that? I'm not sure about that.
Can we get back to you on that? I think the best way to look at that is we have given the disposition guidance.
One of the things that we've always talked about is we are always going to be working on a tremendous amount more of dispositions than we expect to actually sell.
We feel with the industrial deal done that we don't have any tremendous pressures.
Steve talked about the balance sheet is in fine shape.
Johnny talked about we're seeing some acquisition opportunities but not mighty huge numbers.
So we don't feel a tremendous amount of pressure to dispose of properties that -- at significantly less than we think were going to work.
So what -- we'll certainly update folks as we go through the disposition situation.
And cap rates vary tremendously depending upon the properties that we're selling but an 8.5% number is probably pretty good for broad modeling purposes.
So that would get you the approximate NOI of what we think we're going to sell as distinct from what's in the bucket of what we might sell.
Does that help your question? Research Division</strong> Yes it's -- to some degree.
I'm just sort of trying to get the split-up between sort of discontinued op line versus the recurring -- or the operating income line but I can follow up afterwards.
From RBC Capital Markets we have Wes Golladay on line.
Going back to the acquisitions is it safe to model probably a 5.5% to 6% going in cap rate? Is that for -- I mean looking at the quality of the asset you just bought I believe it's the highest annual base rent in your portfolio.
Is that a good assumption there? I think that would be a conservative assumption yes.
Okay.
And now looking at the 8000 Sunset do you have a I guess visibility on leasing that asset to the high 90s? Oh yes.
Definitely yes.
We've got a little bit of leasing to do but we're confident with the platform that we have.
We're going to get that thing well into the 96% 97% area.
It will probably -- let me say that the occupancy will probably fall.
We have a couple of office leases on the third level and our expectation in the way we underwrote the property is we would -- that they would leave over the next 1.5 years and that -- then we would replace them.
Okay.
Do you have any additional opportunity other than lease where overall you're going to configure the spaces at all? Or...
We have a little bit of reconfiguration to do.
I think we have some ability to gain some income out of the garage too.
From Hilliard Lyons we have Carol Kemple on line.
Research Division</strong> We've heard from some of your peers that the traditional retailers are struggling a little more and they're staying more of the niche retailers wanting space.
And it looks like with your recent acquisitions you all have been getting properties with Trader Joe's how are you all seeing that shake out? Well we think Trader Joe's is a fabulous merchant.
Many of us around the table have been doing this for years and years and years 30 40 50 years and there is always a tremendous amount of change in the retail world.
And I think Trader Joe's is an excellent example of what's going on that they're a niche grocer that has an extremely wide trade area offers a tremendous value proposition and pulls from a very wide area but it's a little different than the conventional supermarket that they don't pull people with quite the frequency.
But we think they're wonderful merchants and enjoy doing business with them.
Similarly you have Sprouts you have Sunflower you have a lot of these good strong niche players.
And of course Whole Foods headquartered not far from us over in Austin has been a very valuable tenant of ours for 30 years and we do look forward to doing a tremendous amount of business with them.
And then the Krogers and the Safeways along with the Publixes the HEBs the Wegmans the Harris Teeters there are a lot of good operators out there.
And I think we're very good at assessing those good operations and making those good local sharpshooter real estate decisions.
Research Division</strong> And will a Trader Joe's and a Kroger go in the same center? Can you get a niche grocer and then a traditional grocer? Will they not go in the same center? I don't think they usually will but they'll often times be very close to each other.
And on some unusual circumstances they have gone in the same center.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then are you all seeing any additional new retail concepts coming into your centers? I mean I think Johnny talked a lot about that but it is -- there's certainly some changes to concepts.
It is interesting the stallworks haircutters nail salons and things like that -- cleaners that have been around forever you certainly see a lot of different quick service restaurants.
And something like Five Guys Burger is a reasonably new chain but it's certainly not a new concept it's just extremely well executed.
So that's where I think that there's new iterations of things and new things done better.
And I think that's what drives the business more versus brand new totally new concepts.
From Stifel Nicolaus we have Nathan Isbee on line.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> There's been a lot of commentary from you and a lot of your peers that the lack of new supply plus national retailer demand is helping occupancy rent.
Supply isn't increasing but there still is a lot of supply out there perhaps not the highest quality.
As you sit across the table from the retailers are you seeing any willingness on their part to trade down on quality and move to that third or fourth center in a submarket? Depends on the retailer.
There are some I would say not that many that do look at a little bit weaker space.
They somewhat have to but most of the strong guys are looking at good centers.
And as Johnny mentioned I think some of how we have increased occupancy especially with some of the small shops is taking people away from weaker centers.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But for -- on the larger boxes you've not seen anything changed significantly over the last 6 months to 1 year? Nate this is Johnny.
We're 97% leased on the boxes so our experience there in the last 6 months is rather limited.
But we haven't seen a willingness of retailers to go down.
On the contrary I think there is a demand to increase the quality of their spaces.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the store closure set what do you budget for this year? And where do you stand today relative to budget? We're right on top of our budget right now.
And so the fallout that we've seen the 190 stores is pretty much right where we had budgeted.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally Drew on the new Board additions can you discuss the motivation for it? Was it driven by wanting to size up the Board? Or was there something else more strategic in terms of skill sets et cetera? I think it is a function of a number of things that having a good diverse Board with a lot of different backgrounds is good.
And while we've had a lot of tenure on our Board we thought bringing in some new perspectives was good.
Shelaghmichael Brown is a banker spent the vast majority of her banking in the consumer side.
So she is in many respects a retailer who understands how consumers think understands location theory how to go into a town work a branch bank network.
So I think she brings a lot of retail acumen.
Tom Ryan is the CEO of SCI the large funeral home.
So he is as we say in a different part of the real estate business.
He's an accountant by training and a public company CEO who I think brings a lot of understanding of real estate markets public markets how to deal with investors analysts as well as being a CPA former CFO and therefore financial expert.
So while we have a good strong Board we thought adding some fresh perspective was a good thing to do.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
We shouldn't expect any funeral home announcements addition to your portfolio? No.
It's not a strategic growth area for us.
But...
From Bank of America we have Tom Truxillo on line.
Research Division</strong> You guys have obviously done a very good job of delevering the balance sheet and you paid off the term loan.
But you still have a decent amount on the revolver right now and about $240 million or so of medium-term notes coming due over the next couple of years can you talk a little bit about your financing needs and how you think you can address those? Going forward do you plan to continue the medium term note market? Or would you look at kind of term out a larger long-term debt deal going forward? Tom this is Steve I would tell you that we truly believe that we will approach the capital markets and issue some debt here probably before the end of the year.
I think if you look at where the revolver is and -- some of it depends -- and the timing especially depends on exactly the progress we make and how the acquisition disposition actually close.
As Johnny mentioned there's a lot going on there and a lot of transactions so even though they're not tremendously individually large the timing of that does vary.
But we clearly understand where we are with the revolver today what maturities we have coming next year and I would expect that we will go to the bond market.
We do feel like since we have not used or sold an MTN in quite some time that we do need to come out with probably an index level deal to reintroduce ourselves to some of those bond investors.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then any comments on kind of the split between secured and unsecured debt? If you're going to do an Index-eligible type of deal do you see the opportunity maybe -- as mortgages roll to reduce your mortgage debt and unencumber additional assets? Or do you kind of like the split you have now? No no.
We have always for years had the financial policy that at the corporate level we only issue unsecured debt.
Now we'll tell you during the downturn in '08 '09 when the capital markets quite frankly were closed at the corporate level we did do a couple of secured transactions.
Again only because the bond market was closed.
But we continue with the policy that we will pay off secured debt with unsecured and issue in that secured market.
From Green Street Advisors we have Cedrik Lachance on line.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> As you're looking at the acquisition market over the next several quarters what is most attractive to you? Is it a grocery anchored center with the Trader Joe's or a well qualified grocery anchor? Or is it a well located power center? I think Cedrik it all comes down to the individual center that we're going to make that decision.
Happy to look at both we'll look at everything and we'll use our local expertise our people out in the field to assess that.
And then we'll make what we think is the right risk/reward call.
So I mean I think a good power center is fine.
I think you have to pay very careful attention to the quality of the tenant lineup and the rents of the boxes sales the stores do and furthermore the dimensions of the boxes that if you have very high rents with some of the weaker tenants in the space with short lease expirations and there's very little frontage and a lot of depth then I don't think it's so good.
So we are certainly going to focus more on supermarket anchored centers because that's generally where you find everything lining up better that you have a very good supermarket doing good sales a good layout et cetera.
And there are just fewer power centers where everything lines up right but in those instances where it does we're very comfortable with both product types.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I've noticed you sold a few pads during the quarter.
Are those pads next to existing shopping centers you own? A few pads? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes they all are.
We've had an ongoing effort to continue to sell pads or to lease them.
And that's generally what we are doing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in some cases those were not necessarily -- they were not built out this one? No they were not.
[Operator Instructions] And from Wells Fargo we have Tammy Fique on line.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just have a quick question on the development pipeline during the quarter it looked like there was a drop-off in expected development yields on the same group of assets.
It was only about 10 basis points but given the improving trends that you're seeing in NOI and leasing the direction of the change is a little bit surprising is there anything specific that drove that? No.
I think it's just working through principally some of the legacy properties where again I think we're trending to complete those at about a 7% return and comfortable that we are at this point creating some shareholder value.
Very pleased with the completions that we have this quarter that number was in the high 6s as I remember close to 7% so I think we are creating some value there.
And I think that's just -- I have to get back with you off-line on the detail of it but I don't think it's a trend or anything it was just a little something that changed.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then along those same lines where do you think market cap rates are for properties in the market where you are developing so what's the spread do you think? Yes.
Again a tremendous range.
In the Washington DC area I would say in the middle to low 5%.
In quality stuff throughout Florida might be a little higher than that and in good locations in the middle of the country say 6% to 6.5%.
And then the West Coast can be easily back down into the 5% and in some cases the low 5%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then there have been some different views communicated this quarter by your peers in relation to the direction of cap rates in the B quality market.
I just wanted to get your perspective on that.
We haven't seen a tremendous amount of change.
We think we've seen a bit of improvement and we are of the view that the cap rate compression -- that there will be cap rate compression and that the spread on the Bs will narrow.
Again a lot of that is very much a function of the economy and when people get some level of comfort that the likelihood of another downturn is very very low.
At this point I would like to turn it back over to Drew for any final remarks.
Thank you all very much for participating in the call and your interest in Weingarten.
And we'd be happy to follow up with anybody if there are any other questions offline.
Again have a great day and a great rest of the summer.
All the best.
And this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Weingarten Realty's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Brandon and I'll be the operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
And I will now turn it over to Michelle Wiggs.
Michelle you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter 2012 conference call.
Joining me today is Drew Alexander President and CEO; Stanford Alexander Chairman; Johnny Hendrix Executive Vice President and COO; Steve Richter Executive Vice President and CFO; and Joe Shafer Senior Vice President and CAO.
As a reminder certain statements made during the course of this call are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
More information about these factors is contained in the company's SEC filings.
Also during this call management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as funds from operations or FFO both recurring and reported which we believe help analysts and investors to better understand Weingarten's operating results.
Reconciliation to these non-GAAP financial measures is available in our supplemental information package located under the Investor Relations tab of our website.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Drew Alexander.
Thanks Michelle.
Before we start on the business of the call all of my colleagues and I want to wish everyone the best dealing with the effects of super storm Sandy.
Our hearts go out to those who've been affected and we wish everyone the best in dealing with this natural disaster.
Over the last several quarters we've made significant progress in achieving the 3 strategic objectives we have highlighted.
The objectives are: number one further improving operations and leasing our portfolio back to 95-plus percent occupancy; number two continue improving the quality of our portfolio through recycling of capital by selling noncore properties and acquiring or developing assets in high-barrier entry markets with strong growth prospects; and number three improving our financial position by slightly delevering our balance sheet.
Number one operations.
Retail occupancy moved up to 93.9% with a continued increase in small shop leasing driving a 20 basis point increase from the previous quarter and 110 basis points from a year ago.
Combined with rental rate increases this led to another strong quarter of Same Property NOI growth with an increase over the third quarter of last year of an impressive 4.9%.
We remain confident that we will attain our year-over-year goal of 4% to 5% Same Property NOI growth.
Number two capital recycling.
We continue to improve the quality of our portfolio through the recycling of capital.
During the quarter we generated $66 million from the sale of retail properties and $23 million from industrial assets held in joint ventures.
Year-to-date dispositions have totaled $565 million.
This quarter we redeployed $114 million with the purchase of 2 outstanding shopping centers and the opportunistic purchase of our venture partners' interest in another.
The 2 new centers are in locations with significant barriers to entry and outstanding demographics.
Our activity this quarter and year-to-date clearly exemplifies how we're enhancing the quality of our portfolio through our recycling program.
Third our financial position.
The proceeds from dispositions this year were partially used to delever our balance sheet thus accomplishing our third strategic objective.
It is our intention to maintain a conservative leverage policy of less than 40%.
As always we're focused on balance sheet management which we continued this quarter with the completion of a $300 million 10-year note offering.
This transaction allowed us to completely pay down our revolving credit facility and redeem the remainder of our convertible bonds.
While slightly diluted to funds from operations this additional liquidity allows us to take advantage of any growth opportunities maintains our strong overall credit metrics and positions us for future debt maturities.
One might say great people great properties and a great platform translates to great progress.
Before I turn it over to Steve let me briefly update you on the positive results we've made in our new development efforts.
We continue to make good progress in our pipeline of 11 properties.
Through our strong leasing efforts we increased occupancy by 100 basis points during the third quarter and by approximately 900 basis points year-to-date.
We recorded completions of $7 million during the quarter resulting in nearly $25 million year-to-date.
We continue to pursue new projects in multiple markets and are confident our development expertise will add significant future shareholder value.
We had a really great quarter and I'll now turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Drew.
Recurring FFO was $0.46 per diluted share for the quarter down from $0.47 last year.
This $0.01 decline results in being a net seller of assets.
The reduction was offset by reduced interest expense as we refinanced debt maturities and an increase in operating income from improved occupancy in our existing portfolio.
Contributing to the increase in operating income were bad debt recoveries during the quarter that were at the higher end of the normal range.
Reported FFO for the quarter increased to $0.45 per share compared to $0.25 in 2011 due to noncash impairments included last year.
We continue to improve our balance sheet.
As Drew mentioned we returned to the capital markets for the first time since 2009 with the issuance of $300 million 10-year notes.
This was a terrific transaction as we priced the notes at 180 basis points over the 10-year treasury for a yield of 3.42%.
We ultimately priced the notes at a slight discount for a coupon of 3 3/8%.
With these proceeds we have completely paid down our $500 million revolving credit facility and have called for the redemption of the 3.95% convertible bonds of which around $50 million remain outstanding.
Subsequent to this transaction we made the decision to call for the redemption of our 6.95% Series E preferred shares.
There was about $72.5 million of these shares currently outstanding and they will be redeemed before year end.
We have successfully delevered our balance sheet.
At September 30 our debt to total market cap was 36% compared to over 45% a year ago and our net debt to EBITDA was 6.02x compared to 6.76x last year.
We intend to keep leverage below the 40% level.
So at 36% today we are well positioned to take advantage our future investments.
With respect to guidance we are again this quarter raising the lower end of our 2012 guidance for recurring FFO from a range of $1.76 to $1.84 per share to a range of $1.80 to $1.84 per share and changing our rental growth assumption from a range of minus 1% to plus 2% to a positive 2% to 4%.
You can see these and all of our guidance numbers on Page 44 of the supplemental.
As to 2013 our preliminary guidance for recurring FFO is a range of $1.84 to $1.90 per share.
Since we have not concluded our annual budget cycle we will provide more details next quarter as to the specific assumptions used in this estimate.
However we are assuming that in 2013 acquisitions and dispositions will be about the same resulting in 2013 being capital neutral.
With that I'd like to turn it over to Johnny.
Thanks Steve.
We had an outstanding quarter.
4.9% Same Property NOI.
Our retail occupancy increased for the sixth straight quarter.
Shop occupancy increased to 88.3%.
Leasing velocity was steady.
We acquired 3 shopping centers for $114 million and we sold $89 million of assets.
I'm thrilled we've been able to produce results like this during a slow economic recovery.
Consumers are rightly cautious and looking for value.
Operators offering value like our discount ready-to-wear retailers such as TJX and Ross continue to post outstanding results.
Quick service restaurants which have been expanding over the last 18 months are also seeing good sales increases and are hungry for more space.
Nationally supermarket sales have been mixed and there continues to be margin pressure.
Within the Weingarten portfolio supermarket sales have been more robust currently averaging over $513 per square foot.
Today over 30% of our NOI comes from Texas.
The economy here continues to outpace the rest of the nation.
This robust economy makes this feel like the third coast.
Texas produced 259 000 jobs over the last 12 months and added 530 000 people to the population.
You're going to hear throughout my remarks today that Texas is experiencing great success.
Leasing production remains steady.
We signed 152 new leases for $5.3 million in base rent and 204 renewals for $9.8 million in base rent.
Renewals for next year are off to a great start.
We've already signed over 40% of our renewals for 2013.
The majority of our new lease production is coming from national and regional operators with the most active categories being quick service restaurants like Buffalo Wild Wings and Panera Bread.
Medical service tenants are also very active: dentists chiropractors and optometrists.
And finally we're generating a lot of business from health and beauty retailers like Sally Beauty GNC and Weight Watchers.
Our leasing team is always looking to create efficiencies in the leasing process from the initial cold call through rent commencement.
Our short-form lease is a powerful tool we use a lot with local tenants who are looking to relocate and upgrade to a Weingarten property from a competitor's center.
These leases are simple: 8 pages short-term and tenant friendly.
The approval process is streamlined and we can approve and generate a lease to be signed in hours.
Speed is critical when negotiating with local tenants.
The typical short-form lease cycle time from beginning to end is 3 days and usually commences within 30 to 60 days.
We signed 54 short-form leases in the third quarter and we're already generating about $400 000 in annualized rent.
A good example of this is a furniture store in Denver we moved from a neighboring center last month.
We agreed to terms on September 17 signed a lease 3 days later on September 20 tendered the space on September 21 and the store opened for business on October 5 20 days from beginning to end.
If you're not familiar with the general timelines of the leasing process let me tell you that's fast.
This sort of agile dealmaking can only happen with the right platform.
We see our platform as a series of processes and procedures utilizing technology interconnected with our culture and our institutional knowledge.
Combined we have created an environment for our people to confidently and quickly make decisions within predetermined guidelines while maintaining oversight and control.
This is not isolated to our leasing staff but also extends to every one of our associates interacting with our customers.
We see this platform as a competitive advantage as we compete for tenants.
We've commented over the last several quarters about the reduced number of tenants falling out.
This trend has continued during the third quarter and it illustrates the strong composition of our portfolio.
The annualized base rent the company lost to fallout during the third quarter is 40% less than a year ago.
As many of you know we track our receivables very closely looking at weekly reports.
Based on those reviews and historical comparisons I expect we will continue to enjoy this improved fallout movement through at least the end of 2012.
With our continued leasing and the reduced fallout it's natural our occupancy is improving.
At quarter end retail occupancy was 93.9%.
That's 110 basis point improvement from year ago.
Shop occupancy improved to 88.3%.
This is 160 basis points better than last year.
Texas is leading the way with occupancy at close to 96%.
Breaking that down a little more our Houston retail properties are 96.5% leased and our assets in South Texas are close to 98% leased.
California is now over 95% occupied and Florida is very close to 94%.
So all 3 coasts are doing well.
We've made a lot of progress in these 3 significant states that make up about 60% of our NOI.
As a result of the company's leasing efforts our reduced fallout and the rising occupancy we produced a 4.9% Same Property NOI increase during the quarter.
This is an outstanding number and puts us on track to close out 2012 with Same Property NOI within our guidance of 4% to 5%.
Year-to-date the company has increased the Same Property NOI by almost $10 million.
Almost 85% of that is directly attributable to increased rents and increasing occupancies.
Over the last 18 months we've commenced 2.4 million square feet for annualized base rent of $37.2 million.
It's been a collaborative effort by the entire company.
I would like to thank all of our associates for their efforts.
We've also been busy recycling capital.
During the third quarter we sold over $89 million in assets including $66 million in retail properties and $23 million in industrial assets.
The shopping centers were mostly smaller with many in small towns.
Year-to-date the company has sold about $565 million.
This is $154 million of retail properties and the $411 million of industrial assets.
We expect to close on the balance of our industrial assets reasonably soon.
But for all practical purposes we're out of that business today.
Looking forward with the industrial sales and the retail sales we have in the pipeline we expect to finish the year at the upper end of our guidance range of $570 million to $680 million in dispositions.
We talked about the acquisitions of Roswell and Pike Center on the last call.
In addition to those projects we purchased our partner's 80% interest in University Place in Shreveport Louisiana.
This is a unique circumstance and not a shift in our acquisition criteria.
We originally developed University Place which is anchored by Super Target Bed Bath and Beyond TJ Maxx and CVS.
We bought our partner's interest for a cap rate of 7.7% which includes a mark-to-market adjustment for debt.
With the acquisitions in the third quarter we're already at the top end of our guidance range.
So far this year we've acquired $235 million of retail property.
We have a few things in the pipeline now but it would be late December before anything else would close so there won't be much additional FFO impact in 2012.
The new shopping centers we acquired this year have a weighted average household income of $109 000 with college education levels in excess of 61%.
Household incomes of the shopping centers we sold were $70 000 with college education levels at 40%.
We're making great progress improving the quality of the portfolio and improving long-term value for our shareholders.
Again a great quarter 4.9% increase in Same Property NOI occupancy up to 93.9% shop occupancy up 160 basis points from a year ago leasing is steady and we're making great progress on our recycling efforts.
Drew? Thanks Johnny.
Our solid results this quarter are a clear reflection of the strengths of this company.
Our best-in-class operating platform is staffed by a highly tenured group of professionals that work in the same markets in which they live and have access to all the processes tools and technology of our corporate office.
We continue to improve the strength of our quality portfolio as we shed the lowest tier of our properties and replace them with excellent new assets.
And we remain dedicated to maintaining a strong balance sheet and a manageable maturity schedule.
We're pleased with the continued progress towards the 3 strategic objectives and we understand the need to sustain effort on this multi-year endeavor.
This was an outstanding quarter and we expect to continue this performance.
At WRI great people great properties and a great platform results in great progress.
I thank all of you for joining the call today and for your continued interest in Weingarten.
Again best wishes in dealing with Sandy.
Operator we'd now be happy to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And from Stifel Nicolaus we have Nathan Isbee on line.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit more about the assumptions in the 2013 guidance I guess specifically on the same-store NOI? Nate this is Steve.
We have not yet concluded the overall budget process and as we've done historically we'll provide all the details next quarter once all that's complete.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe you can just give us a little bit for instance on the $10 million of NOI that you had this year how much do you have coming online already next year that you know about signed field? The $10 million is an annualized number that I think Johnny quoted.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No it was -- that came online in '12.
I'm just saying do you have any visibility in terms of signed leases today that are coming online in '13? Nate I guess I would say that our spread between signed and commenced occupancy today is about 240 basis points which is shrinking but it's still well above what I would consider to be normal more like 150 or 120.
So we're definitely looking at that.
We have not yet come up with any specific numbers that we're prepared to talk about today.
And I would say generally Nate this is Drew that as we have said this year will be wonderful largely because of those commencements and normal is more like to 2 to 2.5 versus the 4 to 5 of where we are.
So next year will be more towards number -- more towards normal and not as outstanding as this year is.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just quickly on Pike Center which you acquired.
It's got the low occupancy.
Is this purely a lease up play? Or is there perhaps some other plan in place for that center? The opportunity we feel is to lease it up and hold it for sort of an extended period of time could be 5 6 7 years could be even 10 or 12 years.
And then over a very long period of time as you know it's a wonderful location.
It will be more redeveloped.
But there's certainly no imminent redevelopment plan.
It's much more of an interim to longer term hold.
From Robert W.
Baird we have Paula Poskon on line.
Research Division</strong> Are you hearing -- in leasing negotiations currently what kinds of concerns if any are you hearing? And might that be delaying decision-making around fiscal cliff? Paula this is Johnny.
I -- we haven't heard a lot of specific discussion around the fiscal cliff.
I will tell you it seems that when we're talking to retailers today they are more concerned about all of the details with the leases more concerned that they maintain the maximum amount of flexibility.
It does take longer to do leases but I think that fiscal cliff component probably works in there somewhere in the back office.
But when we're out there talking to the leasing people they're not focused on that as much as they are all of the details of the lease today.
From Morningstar we have Philip Martin on line.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to get a sense of tenant retention.
When you look at the discussions you're having now with tenants and even going into 2013 do you expect tenant retention to be improving a bit? And are you seeing a difference in tenant retention by market or in terms of turnover by market? Yes Philip this is Johnny.
We are as I've said in the remarks earlier thrilled with where we are today on tenant retention.
We've renewed about 40% of our leases for next year.
And as we're talking to people what we're seeing is is the tenants who are doing well obviously want to stay and renew.
The ones that haven't done well over the last several years pretty much are gone.
So I am certainly looking for increased tenant retention over the next 12 to 24 months versus the couple of years behind us.
And a lot of that you can see in our fallout numbers where we count a fallout if the tenant comes to the expiration of their lease and they leave it's a fallout.
So as part of that we are retaining those tenants longer.
And generally we're seeing increased retail sales.
Another piece for us that's kind of interesting is over the last several years we've increased pretty dramatically the amount of national and regional tenants.
And I think we're up to some around 77% versus in the mid- to low-60s a couple of years ago.
So I think again retention we're seeing is very positive.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And again based on the remarks this morning it sounds like everything is going as planned maybe even a bit better than expected.
What's not going as well? What's not going as well as you'd like it to? Can you just give us a sense of what's troubling you I guess? This is Drew.
I think everything really in as good of ashape as could be under circumstances.
We are coming out of a very very difficult recession and the economy is not as robust as we would like.
So finding new development opportunities where people are willing to part with very good properties with a population around it that we want and tenants that are willing to pay the rent so that we can make some money is challenging.
Likewise a lot of people pension funds foreign investors wealthy individuals et cetera have begun to understand the tremendous safety recession-resilient aspects of supermarket-anchored tenants and the properties the other basic goods and services tenants that we have.
So the acquisition world is extremely competitive.
So I've always been taught that things never line up exactly perfectly all things all the time and that's were to me this is a really pretty good environment all things considered.
We're very pleased with the acquisitions that we've accomplished year-to-date using our local resources.
I think we're underwriting things very well and finding some opportunities where we can add value.
We're not trying to buy across the entire country we're very focused and we underwrite things very well.
So I'm sure acquisitions will remain very competitive and I'm confident we'll get our share.
But I wish in -- the economy were doing better.
But hope is of course not a strategy.
Research Division</strong> No.
No.
I appreciate that.
And I guess would it be that your -- the acquisition market is probably -- I mean you've done some good acquisitions this year obviously.
But is that probably more frustrating because you're going into somebody's better market it's more competitive? Is that probably the most frustrating part of the business plan? I wouldn't say it's frustrating because it also means the value of the existing portfolio is that much stronger.
So again it's one of those things that -- things tend to balance out.
So when we see somebody paying a very aggressive cap rate that just means that our existing assets are better.
So again I think things are generally good and there's always something to work on.
Even the fact that there's no new space being built helps us lease the existing portfolio.
Johnny's talked before about how flexible tenants are especially on things like dimensions and receiving and the other things because they recognize they have to be a little bit more flexible if they want to get into existing spaces.
There will come a time where there is more pressure to build more space and then you'll also see tremendous upward pressure on rents because construction costs for new space are -- require rents well in excess of current rents in most markets.
So again Philip I appreciate.
I mean part of being in business is you're always dealing with things you're always dealing with issues.
But I think in the broadbrush things are pretty darn good.
They may not be for many metrics as good as they were in 2006 but they're a heck of a lot better than they were in 2009.
So again I think things are pretty good.
From RBC Capital Markets we have Rich Moore on line.
LLC Research Division</strong> First on divestments on things you're selling.
At one point I remember you guys had I think 64 or 65 assets that you had kind of identified at least and I realize you could have more than that but those were kind of the target sales group.
Where are you in that process? I mean you've done a great job of getting rid of things.
How many more of those are there to go do you think? Johnny's looking through his detailed notes but let me just say generally Rich that I think we're making really good progress.
And especially we feel with the decision to get out of industrial that it's a multi-year effort and we recognize that.
I said that in the prepared remarks and we'll continue to work on it.
But I know we're making very good progress.
Yes Rich we're I guess somewhere around between 1/3 and halfway done with selling those assets.
I can tell you that the road to these sales has been a long one.
They're generally small assets and we're selling to inexperienced individuals that are going and getting bank loans.
So we've had probably 50% closing ratio -- rate of the things we get under contract on some of these lower quality assets.
But we're thrilled with the progress that we've made so far and we're committed to see this thing out.
It's going to take a while but we are committed to finish it.
We're down to already I think a very manageable level.
About 90% of our NOI comes from the target markets that we want to grow.
So we're focused on the multi-year effort.
But as you and I discussed in the past we don't feel a need to fire sale things and to just move this out at some deep discounted process.
But we will work on it over the next few years.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
I got you guys.
And so there's may be 30 or 40 more assets that are potential sales candidate at least in the near term? Right.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good.
Then on for a second on the Washington D.C.
market.
We hear a lot about how tough the apartment sector is in D.C.
for example or the office sector.
I mean what do you think overall for the retail market? And I realize it's different in those other property types but what do you think in general for D.C.
retail? Good anchored properties the kind of things that we want to do do extremely well there and we're very pleased.
Progressing very nicely at Hilltop very pleased with the Pike acquisition that we spoke about earlier.
Also pleased that some of the tenants are back open and doing business at Pike.
It seemed to come through Sandy well and we're pleased with that.
So we are diligently working on other acquisitions there but we find it a very competitive market.
We think when we look at the size of the market the ownership and how diverse things are that we can work our way into the market.
We think it's a logical extension for us as we move up the coast with strong presences in Atlanta and North Carolina and we think the broad demographics of Washington are great.
So we find it a very strong market.
It's one -- we frankly targeted it because when the downturn started we hoped there would be more opportunities there but it remains a very challenging market.
But we've got a lot of expertise there and we're confident we'll find good acquisitions and development opportunities there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good.
And if I could squeeze in just one more real quick one Steve the expense recovery ratio dipped in the quarter and I was curious if it was maybe more bad debt expense that was in operating expense or anything special that caused that to happen.
Really 2 things Rich.
One is the deferred comp piece that we've had to address several times through the quarters and that also accounts for why interest income -- I know there was a couple of notes about interest income being up.
The deferred comp piece the offsetting part of that is in or part of it is in operating expenses.
That was causing the recovery numbers to go and then we did have a couple of adjustments that ran through there.
I would tell you don't use probably the quarter as a run rate.
I would use year-to-date kind of as the best guide going forward.
From Green Street Advisors we have Cedrik Lachance on line.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Drew you talked about aggressively pursuing new development projects earlier.
Can you give us a sense of the magnitude of what you foresee in terms of your development activities in '14 and '15? And can you give us a sense also what it might mean for development activity overall in the market 2 3 years out? I'll do my best Cedrik and it's a very good question.
But I think it's a very difficult one to answer with any semblance of certainty.
What I know is that we have and will return to our roots of doing development in a very good risk-adjusted way where we won't have entitlement risk and we will very very much have good pre-leasing good commitments.
The good news is I think the market appreciates that and I don't think one sees the competitive pressures to get away from that that one saw in the 2006 '07 period.
It's hard for me to imagine the pipeline ramping up any time soon to be a really really significant number.
As you've seen we're -- we haven't really -- we've added 3 new properties to the pipeline one of which is the Hilltop project of some size.
The other 2 while we're very happy to have them they're great deals that underline our relationships with both Whole Foods and Kroger they're pretty small.
We continue to work through the legacy assets and as I said before we're making good progress there.
So it's hard for me to foresee a time where things will be such that we have a pipeline of $300 million $400 million $500 million $600 million $700 million.
And I don't see it getting that large and I know that we will be very sensitive on the risk-adjusted returns that again we're avoiding the entitlement risk and we're avoiding any huge amounts of spec space.
So while we are aggressively pursuing I mean that as we are working hard.
We're talking to our tenants.
We're out there in our field offices but we also still have a very rigorous investment committee before we invest any significant capital.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Good.
And just a thing on the development theme and I think the loan associated with your Sheridan project is now in arbitration.
Can you give us a sense of what's happening with the project and with the partnership in particular? The partnership and I'll let Steve talk a little bit more he's familiar with some of the details of the loan.
The partnership is under a lot of stress as you can imagine.
The project is doing better and we have done some recent leasing there of the existing space that we're very pleased with.
It's a very good location good population density around it Target open Costco open doing very well have a fair amount of land held for development there and are in some negotiations with folks to build some new buildings.
Again I'd be very sensitive to the amount of shop space that we have and spec space that we build.
So we are cautiously optimistic that the worst days are behind us there but it remains under some stress.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And in regards to loan? The loan itself as you have referenced Cedrik there's -- it's in litigation.
There's still -- quite frankly the latest piece that you saw is only a small fraction of the whole legal strategy.
And I don't care to get into all the details of it but we're basically waiting on on one more ruling from the court rule that will give us direction going forward.
[Operator Instructions] From Wells Fargo Securities we have Tammi Fique on line.
LLC Research Division</strong> Where do you expect the gap between leased and commenced to be at year end? I think it'll shrink a little bit.
If you got 210 basis points that probably be my guess.
Some of it of course depends on what I'll lease between now and then and my leasing people tell me they are working on that diligently today.
But I think probably shrinking a little bit to that 210 is probably close.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then into 2013 you're expecting it to get back to a more normalized level by year end is that correct? I think that would be accurate Tammi.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you are redeeming the preferred -- the Series E preferred.
Are you anticipating issuing another preferred? At this time no.
We continue to monitor the markets.
We will pay that off or redeem that with -- through the revolver.
We've also called for the redemption of our convertibles our 3.95% converts that there are about $50 million outstanding.
And actually sitting here today I'm in a net cash position with the revolver.
So we'll continue to monitor acquisitions disposition activity and look at the capital markets as we go into 2013.
But at this time there's no intent to issue.
The spread quite frankly our view is that the cost of where our 10-year money is today versus where our preferred we would issue a preferred is so wide that we think that the debt market is certainly the place to be today.
And we'll continue to monitor that and look at that as we need to approach the capital markets again in 2013.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one final question if I'm looking at this correctly it looks like the midpoint of implied FFO guidance for the fourth quarter it sort of implies a sequential drop in FFO at the midpoint sequentially.
I just was wondering if that's -- what's causing that? Or is that just due to the $300 million debt issuance? There is -- certainly the $300 million notes that we issued is part of the dilutive effect -- or has the dilutive effect on Q4 operations and -- but it's obviously the accumulation of also the disposition activity that we have had and will -- part of that rolls into '13 as well but it's a combination of a lot of transactions.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just actually one more question expected development spend is down this year.
I know you touched a little bit on development but is there something specific that's driving that? Was there something that you are working on that you decided against? No it's nothing large.
I think it's a combination of a number of things that again as I mentioned we're just being very rigorous as we look at both new sites and also look to expand on the existing properties.
So there's nothing specific really big.
It's a lot more a number of just smaller things.
We have no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the call back over to Drew for any closing remarks.
Well thank you all for joining the call.
Again best of luck in dealing with Sandy and the aftermath of that.
Really appreciate everybody's participation.
We'll be around later today and look forward to talking with you and I know we'll see a lot of you at NAREIT coming up.
Again best wishes.
Thank you.
And this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Weingarten Realty Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Brandon and I'll be the operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Michelle Wiggs.
Michelle you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter 2012 conference call.
Joining me today is Drew Alexander President and CEO; Johnny Hendrix Executive Vice President and COO; Steve Richter Executive Vice President and CFO; and Joe Shafer Senior Vice President and CAO.
As a reminder certain statements made during the course of this call are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
More information about these factors is contained in the company's SEC filings.
Also during this conference call management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as funds from operations or FFO both recurring and reported which we believe help analysts and investors to better understand Weingarten's operating results.
Reconciliation to these non-GAAP financial measures is available in our supplemental information package located under the Investor Relations tab of our website.
I will now turn the call over to Drew Alexander.
Thanks Michelle and thanks to all of you for joining us.
I'm pleased to announce [indiscernible] Investor Relations.
I know all of you join me in congratulating [indiscernible] to a truly exceptional year.
In our first quarter call this year I indicated that 2012 would likely be a transformative year for our company and in fact it was.
As to the fourth quarter we once again made significant progress in achieving our 3 strategic objectives.
Operationally we achieved Same Property NOI growth of 5.1%.
We continued our capital recycling activities with significant fourth quarter dispositions and we further delevered our balance sheet with these disposition proceeds.
We continued to move occupancy up with retail occupancy of 93.7% compared to 93% at the end of 2011.
Strong lease commencement activity contributed to the strongest quarterly increase in Same Property NOI that we've experienced in 7 years.
We are quite proud of our performance on this key metric.
We also had a very strong quarter of disposition activity closing on over $113 million in sales.
Our largest disposition was our only remaining property in Illinois representing our exit from this state.
As to the full year we equaled or exceeded every goal in our business plan.
Our acquisitions during the year totaled $235 million adding some truly outstanding assets in gateway markets like West Hollywood California and the Washington D.C.
area.
Our dispositions totaled over $700 million and included our exit from the industrial business.
While capital recycling is currently a very common theme in our sector we've made tremendous progress on the portfolio repositioning plan we laid out at our Investor Day in April of 2011.
With the net proceeds from this recycling activity we were able to reduce our balance sheet leverage.
Operationally occupancy is up nicely and we achieved our important goal of growing Same Property NOI by 4% to 5% as we ended the year up 4.2%.
As I said 2012 a truly transformative year made possible by great people great properties and a great platform.
Before I turn it over to Steve a brief update on our new development efforts.
As shown on our supplemental reporting package we stabilized all but 2 of our properties under development during the fourth quarter moving these other properties to operations.
We stabilized 9 properties representing an investment of $100 million that are currently generating in a return of about 4.5% with an estimated ROI of about 7% once all leasing is complete.
A couple of these projects were stabilized early which negatively impact certain operational metrics such as occupancy since in total these properties are only about 80% leased.
Overall we felt this was the correct treatment as these projects are now being handled by our Operations group as development-related activity is complete.
We continue to focus on the new projects in multiple markets and we're confident our development expertise will add significant future shareholder value.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve to discuss our financial results.
Thanks Drew.
Recurring FFO was $0.47 per diluted share for the quarter versus $0.48 last year.
The $0.01 difference was a result of a number of events.
First as Drew mentioned we sold over $700 million of non-core assets during the year resulting in a decrease in net operating income of over $0.07 per share compared to the same quarter of 2011.
Offsetting this reduction was a contribution of our acquisition program a nice reduction in interest expense as we refinanced debt maturities and an increase in operating income from an improvement in a commenced occupancy.
Reported FFO for the quarter decreased to $0.46 per share compared to $0.48 per share in 2011.
This decrease is due to the factors just mentioned as well as redemption costs from the preferred shares we called in December.
We continue working to improve our balance sheet.
We've returned to the capital markets in the fourth quarter for the first time since 2009 with the issuance of $300 million of 3.375% 10-year notes.
With these proceeds we paid down our $500 million revolving credit facility and redeemed our 3.95% convertible bonds as well as our 6.95% Series E Preferred Shares.
This additional liquidity allows us to take advantage of growth opportunities as they arise maintain our strong overall credit metrics and better positions us for future debt maturities.
During 2012 we successfully delevered our balance sheet.
Our net debt-to-EBITDA at year end was 5.9x compared to 6.5x at the end of last year.
And at December 31 our debt-to-total market cap was 37.2% compared to 44.4% a year ago.
This is clearly a significant improvement.
And as mentioned previously we intend to keep our leverage below 40%.
As the company moves into 2013 we are expecting a slow modest improvement in the general economy as well as the retail environment similar to what we experienced in 2012.
The continued lack of new retail space should allow us to make progress in occupancy.
Accordingly we are affirming the 2013 guidance we communicated last quarter a recurring FFO of $1.84 to $1.90 per share.
The underlying assumptions of our guidance can be found on Page 9 of the supplemental and the highlights include a Same Property NOI increase of 2% to 3% and occupancy ending the year between 94% and 95%.
The company remains committed to the recycling program and we're anticipating dispositions of $200 million to $300 million of assets.
We're also budgeting to invest $175 million to $225 million in high-quality assets and $25 million to $75 million in the New Development program.
We budgeted these investments and dispositions to occur ratably throughout the year.
The actual timing is a variable that will obviously affect our actual results.
We feel this is a solid plan and advances our strategic objectives.
With that I'll turn it over to Johnny.
Thanks Steve.
I'm thrilled with the accomplishments of our team for the fourth quarter and the entirety of 2012.
We really knocked it out of the park this year.
We produced Same Property NOI of 5.1% for the quarter and 4.2% for the year.
Our leasing velocity remained steady.
For the year we executed 592 new leases and 867 renewals.
We increased retail occupancy to 93.7% a 70 basis-point improvement from a year ago.
Our rent growth improved through the year with 7.1% during the fourth quarter.
We sold $707 million of non-core retail and industrial assets and we acquired over $235 million of very good property.
Weingarten shopping centers primarily anchored by supermarkets and discount-oriented merchants continues to be attractive to retailers and service tenants.
Our geographic footprint remains in very productive growth markets which are experiencing the best increases in job growth.
Over 1.5 million jobs were created in our top 10 markets during 2012.
That accounted for a job growth more than 3x the national average.
Combine this job growth our anchored properties and our best-in-class operating platform and you can see the great results.
Our Texas properties which produced close to 29% of the company's revenue have outperformed.
For the year Texas produced 5.7% Same Property NOI and have 95.2% occupancy at the end of the fourth quarter.
Florida and California also continued to improve.
Those states contributed Same Property NOI of 6.1% and 4.7% respectively for 2012.
Most of the company's Same Property NOI gains are a result of the occupancy gains we've seen over the last 18 months.
The good news for 2013 is we still have 757 000 square feet or 250 basis points of space that is signed and not commenced.
We expect the commencement of those leases through the coming year to drive our Same Property NOI between the 2% and 3% Steve mentioned earlier.
We're very pleased with the results of our ShopCentric initiative which emphasizes small tenant leasing.
In addition to our simplified leasing process short and easy to understand leases we maintain constant contact with a group of over 150 regional and national tenants through global meetings and partner visits.
In our global meetings we review how our portfolio can meet the tenants' current or future growth needs as well as discussing renewals and resolving isolated operating issues.
We're usually meeting with the vice president of real estate as well as several real estate managers reviewing the entire country.
We also try to include support staff like attorneys construction managers and market research folks so we can develop relationships in advance of working on specific transactions.
These meetings have proven to be very productive consistently leading to new leases and making renewals efficient.
Our partners' visits are a little different.
These are coordinated in-store visits with store owners and managers which allow us to gain valuable insight about a tenant's performance expansion plans competitor information and generate powerful testimonials we can use to lease space.
562 of the new leases we signed during 2012 were shop spaces under 10 000 square feet.
The overall mix of our leasing production has remained fairly consistent over the last 18 months or so.
About 30% of our leases have been service tenants like Great Clips Allstate H&amp;R Block and Sports Clips.
About 20% have been restaurants like Pei Wei Buffalo Wild Wings Chick-fil-A and SUBWAY.
Probably the biggest change we've seen over the last couple of years is the significant increase in medical services.
MRI facilities dentists chiropractors and optometrists are migrating to neighborhood and regional centers.
All these tenants are Internet-resistant and provide us a nice complement to traditional retailers.
We experienced a 30% improvement in fallout from 2011 to 2012.
A lot of factors influenced this slower fallout.
Most prominently the economy is improving.
Not rapidly but it is improving.
Sales are up.
Our portfolio has fewer local mom-and-pop tenants today.
Through our recycling program and retenanting efforts over the last 4 years we've been reshaping the profile of our tenant base.
Today almost 80% of our tenants are national or regional tenants a significant increase from 69% in 2009.
With a combination of steady leasing and reduced fallout we've continued to improve our retail occupancy.
At year end we were at 93.7%.
Shop space occupancy increased 150 basis points to 88.2%.
These are great results even though slightly muted by the early stabilization of the 9 new developments Drew mentioned earlier.
Rent growth will be a focus for us in 2013.
We have good leverage with renewals where we produced a 9.3% increase for the quarter.
We expect to improve new rent growth for 2013 as space continues to be absorbed and the economy generates more business activity.
2012 was a great year for our capital recycling program.
We sold over $707 million of assets.
This includes the sale of our industrial properties.
Today we're a pure-play shopping center company.
We sold almost $270 million of our retail assets during the year.
These are small properties in small towns demographically challenged assets or markets where we've not been able to generate scale.
In 2012 we exited Chicago Kansas City Topeka Southern Pines in North Carolina Colorado Springs Maine and Lubbock Texas.
We're looking for much of the same during 2013 as we remain committed to improve the portfolio trimming non-core assets and adding high-quality properties.
This is a multiyear initiative but we're already seeing benefits.
Today our average supermarket sales have risen to $516 a square foot one of the highest in our peer group.
We'll continue to focus on acquisitions of high-quality assets in markets where we have regional offices and will remain disciplined buying assets with growth that are accretive to our shareholders.
2012 was a great year.
Fantastic Same Property NOI of 5.1% for the fourth quarter which is the top of our peer group.
Improving occupancy to 93.7% slowing fallout steady leasing and a continuation of the transformative recycling program.
All our associates are looking forward to a productive 2013.
Drew? Thanks Johnny.
I'm extremely proud of the efforts put forth by the entire team in producing the outstanding results for 2012 in the 3 strategic areas we've discussed.
We made great strides in moving towards our goal of leasing the portfolio back up to 95% 96% as evidenced by the great Same Property NOI increase.
We've successfully delevered our balance sheet providing us with the flexibility to pursue growth opportunities.
Most importantly our capital recycling efforts were highly effective.
The net effect of adding outstanding properties through our acquisition efforts with the proceeds from the sale of lower tier assets resulting in improvements in nearly every operational metric we track.
As for the future there'll always be issues but we're optimistic that we can continue to produce solid operating results from our enhanced portfolio and that we can further improve the quality of this portfolio through continued recycling of assets.
At WRI great people great properties and a great platform results in great progress.
I thank all of you for joining the call today and for your continued interest in Weingarten.
Operator we'd be happy to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And from Bank of America we have Craig Schmidt on the line.
Research Division</strong> I wondered if you could give a little more color on the occupancy.
It's great that you're still able to raise it by year end but where will that occupancy gain come from by what tenants? Hey Craig this is Johnny.
Our projection is most of this occupancy gain is going to come out of shop leasing.
We do have a few anchor spaces but most of it come out of shop leasing.
And I think regionally we're probably going to be depending on Atlanta a little more on Florida I think we can get some more occupancy out of and a little bit of Raleigh.
Phoenix has shown a lot of promise in the last couple of months too.
We're certainly not full in Texas and in California but we're getting up towards that area of 95% 96%.
There's not a lot of room left there.
Research Division</strong> And would you say the leasing environment now is stronger than 2002 similar or weaker? 2002? Research Division</strong> I'm sorry 2012.
I'm sorry yes.
Okay.
2012.
It's about the same Craig.
It's -- I don't think it's any better.
Most of what we're looking at are national tenants.
Most of the tenants we're talking to are national tenants and most of those are public companies.
I think they have a pretty balanced expansion program and they're under some amount of pressure just because there's less space available in the market.
But I don't see a tremendous amount of pressure to expand certainly not like it was back in 2006.
From Robert W.
Baird we have Paula Poskon online.
Research Division</strong> First 2 housekeeping questions.
What was the over-market mortgage adjustment on the acquired asset? That was in -- we acquired an asset I guess 10 years ago Best in the West out in Vegas where we had...
It was [indiscernible].
That's next year.
West Jordan.
West Jordan.
It was where we paid off a loan and wrote off the balance of the unamortized I guess loan costs.
Yes it was a mark-to-market when we bought it.
But we had to amortize it over 20 years but we were able to pay it off in 10.
So there was 10 years of unamortized market adjustment left.
And then -- but I would note we backed to that gain out in coming down to recurring FFO.
Research Division</strong> And also what generated the $1.5 million of new OP units in the quarter? That's really for the quarter we were dilutive.
Every other quarter this year we were anti-dilutive.
So when you're anti-dilutive you don't add those back.
For the year we were also anti-dilutive.
But going into 2013 we expect to be dilutive the whole year and they will be added in every quarter.
The driver of that quite frankly had to do with the impairment losses that ran through those JVs those downrate units.
So that's what caused the swing in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And what percentage of the expiring leases ended up renewing? Well I'm not -- that's not really a number that we have.
We certainly -- I can tell you that 44% of the leases that are planned to expire this year we've already renewed.
I'm not really certain of the other one.
I'll just have to get back with you on it.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just one big picture question.
Any thoughts on the commentary in the news about a potential Kroger buyout of Harris Teeter? And do you think that we can expect accelerated supermarket consolidation? What are your thoughts on that? As to the second part of the question yes I think that there will be M&amp;A activity in retail generally in supermarkets in particular.
Obviously we all read the news about Harris Teeter good chain good stores with them.
So we're very comfortable that we'll be fine whatever happens and as to -- I wouldn't really want to get into speculating as to who they're talking to or what they'll end up doing that's really their process.
From RBC Capital Markets we have Rich Moore online.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question for you on the industrial JVs.
They both appeared to have gone away and I think you had promised that they would or at least indicated you thought they would.
What exactly happened to those? Were those dismantled or did you just sell your partner's share or sell your share to your partner? Several different things Rich.
we sold some outright.
We sold some to our partner and then we have interest in 2 very small  Buildings in Memphis that are under contract and should be sold.
And then also one little freezer building so we're talking about under $10 million of value.
So it is something that in my mind we are done but will be absolutely completely totally done here before too long.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good.
Drew and then on the development pipeline you guys moved those that group of projects over and have 2 left.
Is there anything else? Obviously $25 million to $50 million are -- I think it was just your spend for the year but what's that's pipeline look like? You have some land of course that could be turned into shopping centers.
I mean how do you see development shaping up over the next couple of years in terms of new projects? As you know we have active dialogue and are working across our entire growth footprint.
I think we are working on a lot of deals but I don't quite see the catalyst to create a tremendous amount of new development.
Land owners who have good property don't want to sell at discounts to what they could have gotten years ago.
Tenants are still somewhat able to achieve their open-to-buys but increasingly more worried about 2014 2015 how they're going to get there.
They are filling some of their open-to-buys in small towns which is fine for them but not a significant part of our strategy.
And I think even a lot of the private guys -- I was at a shopping center trustees meeting not long ago a lot of the private guys are recognizing that working for free is not really a very good long-term plan.
So if you look at the overlap of things I don't think there'll be a tremendous amount of new development.
But we're very close with the Targets the Wal-Marts the Whole Foods the Krogers the Publix the HEBs and all the other folks that we would want to anchor our centers.
So over the next several years I think there will be more but specifically when that ramps up I'm not sure but I don't think it will be immediate.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good.
Drew and then flipping around to acquisitions for a second.
What's that looking like? Is your pipeline filling up? Are you seeing it starting to diminish a bit? Or how do you think of the whole acquisitions you see? We've got -- yes this is Johnny Rich.
We've got about $60 million in the pipeline today.
There's no certainty that any of that will close.
We certainly believe it will but we're not certain.
And over the last 30 to 45 days there does seem to be a good number of other assets that we may have an opportunity to buy.
So we're feeling pretty good certainly about the guidance range.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and would you do any of those in JVs Johnny? Or is that sort of something you're not going to do much more of in the near future? Rich we certainly would look at joint ventures and have some partners today that we will talk to on a regular basis.
I don't think it will be a large part of the overall acquisitions that we have and certainly not a priority from our perspective.
From Green Street Advisors we have Cedrik Lachance online.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at the dispositions in the recent quarter you had an average gap right there of about 8.5% I believe.
What do you observe in the market in terms of your ability to sell some of these lower-quality assets? Cedric it has remained pretty constant all year.
And you're right the assets that we're selling are some of the lower-quality assets small towns demographically challenged.
Most of these assets we're actually selling to individuals.
We're obviously selling them on a one-off basis which is a little more labor-intensive and does take a little bit longer.
We are seeing good opportunities for the buyers given the debt market today.
They're able to get a pretty good yield at 8.5% even if you only get 60% leverage maybe 40% a 4% debt.
So we feel like we've been pretty successful in it and I think -- certainly think going forward we're going to be able to continue to sell some of these assets in 2013.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So what do you observe from a pricing perspective? Has the yield there been about constant? Or do you see any compression or do you see -- foresee any ability to sell at higher prices for that kind of quality? Now Cedric we are -- we believe there will be some compression going forward.
We think with the alternative investments being relatively limited and a good yield a reasonable leverage we feel like cap rates will compress.
We have anecdotally seen a few things that would give us the impression that it's moving but it is pretty slow to move at this point.
I wouldn't be able to tell you that cap rates have compressed significantly over the last 6 to 12 months in that product category.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then looking at your land bank at this point what percentage of it is adjacent to your existing centers and what percentage is really raw land that's in the path of development? I'm not sure Cedric I have that exact number in front of me.
The land is detailed so we could go through that and figure it out.
My team is flipping through papers.
So we'll circle back to you on that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that sounds good.
We can follow up after the call.
And then perhaps final question.
In regards to your same-store projection.
When I think about the 9 properties that were transferred from development into your operating property are those assets going to be considered same-store? And if so by how much can they impact your same-store guidance for next year? Cedric what we typically do is we have a property that once it's stabilized for over a year then we bring it into same-store.
So these 9 properties will not be in same-store.
We have somewhere around 93% of the properties our total population in same-store so I think we're pretty aggressive in that area.
But these assets really aren't that big that they would have impacted it significantly one way or the other but they will not be included in the same-store.
From Deutsche Bank we have Vincent Chao online.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the spreads which were quite strong this quarter and just looking at the expected spread going forward in 2013? I mean was there a couple single deals that really spiked the quarterly spread higher this time around? No there really wasn't.
We've had good leverage in the renewals which really drove the spread.
A lot of what we've done over the last year is we've done some short-term leases and some of those probably have been less and you've probably seen our rent growth slower than some of our peers.
We're hoping that -- and it appears that we are going to be able to pick some of that up in the renewals over the next year or so.
We haven't had great rent growth in the existing -- in the new leases and certainly we believe that we can improve that going forward and that's what you're seeing in our guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just given the fact that the fourth quarter sometimes has its sort of trueups and that kind of thing I'm just wondering on the expense side was there anything unusual in the real estate or property operating expenses this quarter? Just it seemed like the tenant recovery ratio it was a little bit higher than it's been so I'm just trying to get some color.
Taxes were slightly higher Vincent.
We actually are -- excuse me lower.
We actually adjust our pro ratas our CAM tax and insurance on a monthly basis.
So clearly there was no really variance there but taxes were down a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay and do you think the current level of the sort of recovery rate is what we should expect in 2013? Yes.
I mean I think I would use the annual number as opposed to any one quarter because it can vary slightly quarter-to-quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one sort of a it's a step-back sort of question.
Just in terms of the net dispositions there not a huge amount but a small net disposition expectation for 2013.
If you go back to the Analyst Day which I know is a little bit -- is far back now but I think at that point the expectation it was -- would be that you'd be a net acquirer.
I'm just wondering from that time to today what's changed in the landscape that has you continue to sell more than buy? And maybe as a follow-up to that in terms of your select versus your secondary market breakout that you previously provided can you give us an update of where you're at there in terms of the percent of NOI? On the big picture and then I'll let my colleague chime in on some of the sub-components.
I think the biggest change is the decision to sell the industrial handle a lot of the needs and put us in a position to delever the balance sheet and continue a multiyear approach.
So that's where as Johnny mentioned there are a few acquisition opportunities that we're seeing a little more encouragement there.
We are also seeing the opportunity to sell some of the outlying properties that helps our overhead in places where we're never going to have any strategic mass at prices that we think are pretty reasonable and fair.
So our estimate and midpoint of guidance is to be about capital-neutral as we shared with you last time when you factor in the New Development.
But obviously when you get to the details of how the plan works the timing of how things work and how things affect their dramatic differences we were able to sell a little bit more property last quarter and that's good.
We do have some acquisition opportunities working and certainly some other disposition opportunities.
So we'll certainly have quarterly calls and keep folks informed but there are a lot of moving pieces and as always we're going to do the right long-term thing.
Johnny you want to talk for a second there? Sure I haven't run that specific number but generally we've sold about a little bit over 1/2 of the assets that we had identified at that time.
Obviously the NOI has kind of moved around a little bit so I think 1/2 is probably somewhere around a good number.
From JPMorgan we have Michael Mueller online.
Research Division</strong> So for the -- I think it was about a 250 basis points of occupancy that's signed but not yet in place that you talk about coming online this year.
Is that extremely back-end loaded because that's -- it would imply a same-store growth I'd say above the 2% to 3% level? No it's not.
It's pretty well even throughout the year.
One of the things that you've got to -- kind of as we're looking at the ins and outs of the same-store and kind of what tenants may leave and what tenants may come and kind of how you're replacing some of those anchored tenants is kind of really the timing of it all.
There is some fallout in the first quarter not a significant amount but some fallout that we budgeted in the first quarter.
And I'd say it's pretty even over the year.
It's interesting about 16 tenants make up over 1/2 of that overall 750 000 square feet.
And I was kind of going through those and I would say they're kind of average the middle of the year or so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You were talking about different types of medical uses coming more into the shopping centers.
I mean how do the rents for those types of tenants generally compare to traditional retailers? It's been pretty favorable.
A lot of these tenants have actually taken some of the old Blockbuster spaces and we've made some pretty good gains in the rents on those.
There is some capital associated with that but even after capital generally we feel pretty positive.
Most of the leases are 10-year leases and many of them -- or most of them are with professionals.
So we feel really good that on a long-term basis these will be good tenants.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you mentioned a stat I think it was national regional tenants are now about 80% of the portfolio.
Before they were about 70% or 69%.
Is the ramp-up there -- I mean how much of that is you consciously going out and targeting national regionals as opposed to locals compared to just not having the local demand there at all so it's just evolved that way.
It's probably a little of both.
There is not a lot of new business formation in what we would consider that mom-and-pop tenant.
The other thing is is we've improved the quality of the properties that we own.
We're buying better properties selling some of the lower-end properties.
And generally those tenants are going to have your national and regional operators so those are the tenants we're leasing to.
So it's a little bit of both probably.
From Citigroup we have Quentin Velleley [ph] online.
Research Division</strong> Yes it's Michael Bilerman.
Just thinking about just the acquisitions and dispositions how does the sort of the timing and the spread? I assume you're still at the negative spread between your acquisitions and dispositions.
How is that being rolled into your guidance numbers? I assume it's going to have some dilutive effect but I'm just curious how you've layered that into your 184 to 190? Michael we've actually as we articulated we scheduled it out our -- the budget has assumed a pro rata or ratably throughout the year on both the acquisitions and the dispositions.
And as you say it is dilutive -- to earnings so it's spread throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> And what are you assuming in terms of -- so you are matching it if you have -- so it's a net let's say 250 in terms of -- for the year you're doing $63 million a quarter.
At what negative spread in your guidance? Well that the -- when you actually look at the dispositions net-net we're probably talking about 250 basis points of spread difference.
Research Division</strong> So much higher than what you were in 2012? Much the same.
Yes I would say it's pretty close to being the same number.
Research Division</strong> Okay just looking on Page 13 it would be 7 8 versus 6 3.
So that's 150? Well there's also some non-shopping center numbers in there that pushed that number a little higher -- a little lower I guess cap rate.
Research Division</strong> Right so you're expecting 250 in terms of a negative spread between your acquisitions and dispositions and ratably throughout the year.
That's correct.
In my prepared remarks I made the comment of that timing of that can obviously can vary and drive our guidance numbers.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And correct.
It's just important to know what's in there so then you can -- as things come in benchmark off of it.
As you think about the acquisition environment are you looking at all at any of your sort of joint ventures right? So if you look at all the joint ventures you got there's about $1.5 billion assets in there.
You have call it gross 35% so about $500 million.
Do any of those joint ventures serve up opportunities for you to acquire? Or you would look at wholly-owned assets? I think a lot of the properties that we own in joint ventures are good properties and we certainly would be interested in buying them.
The question obviously always comes is can I pay the same price that the market would.
We have some opportunity there.
We have talked with some of our partners and who are just kind of surveying the landscape and would like to understand what they're opportunities are.
We're certainly not close to doing anything of any significance with any of our partners.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then Steve what's the assumption in terms of the debt rolling? You have about $310 million split between unsecured and secured sort of the timing of those maturities and what you're assuming in terms of refi? Yes we're basically on a weighted average basis we -- call it 4% that we're using as our cost of refinancing the debt as it rolls.
Research Division</strong> And then the timing of the 3 is there anything that we should know about timing of the maturities in 2013? No I think it's pretty much as it's laid out in the maturity schedule.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what's happening on the preferred? Do those come up for redemption in the first quarter? The preferred is actually open to be called at any point.
As you might remember we did call the 70 -- $2.5 million tranche last year in October I believe it was.
And quite frankly we are most likely going to call the $75 million tranche in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then what does that leave you in terms of -- so you got 425 preferred what does that leave you? And you'll replace that as debt that $75 million? At this point in time yes.
Research Division</strong> And then that remaining 350 is comprised at what rate and sort of when is that open for redemption? It's open for redemption now and it's at a 650 coupon.
So it's not that far off of where the current market is.
We feel like that we can issue a new preferred somewhere in the 5 3/4 5 7/8 so it's slightly inside of 6 but it's not -- the pay-off on the 650 to refi with the preferred is pretty strong.
Research Division</strong> And then the 75 comes off when? Well I think it will occur during the first quarter.
You have to give notice and so forth so it doesn't get -- it will very much towards the end of the quarter before we actually can execute.
Research Division</strong> And that is what rate sorry? That is 6.75.
Research Division</strong> 6.75 okay.
And you'll roll down the line at 4 so get that accretion.
Okay.
[Operator Instructions] And I'm showing no further questions.
At this point I'll turn it back to our presenters for any final remarks.
Yes this is Drew Alexander.
Just let me circle back and answer question that I think Cedric asked.
If one looks at Page 12 I think the breakdown in the New Development phase projects of $44 million is about right versus $60 million in the other raw land so totaling to the $105 million.
So it's about a 60-40 split between the phases and the brand-new developments there.
So I appreciate everyone joining us on the call.
We'll of course be at the Wells Fargo Conference coming up and the Citigroup Conference after that and look forward to seeing many of you there.
We're around all day if there's any other questions and thanks so much for your interest in Weingarten.
And this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Weingarten Realty First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Brandon and I'll be the operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn it over to Michelle Wiggs.
Michelle you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter 2013 conference call.
Joining me today is Drew Alexander President and CEO; Stanford Alexander Chairman; Johnny Hendrix Executive Vice President and COO; Steve Richter Executive Vice President and CFO; and Joe Shafer Senior Vice President and CAO.
As a reminder certain statements made during the course of this call are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
More information about these factors is contained in the company's SEC filings.
Also during this conference call management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as funds from operations or FFO both recurring and reported which we believe help analysts and investors to better understand Weingarten's operating results.
Reconciliation to these non-GAAP financial measures is available in our supplemental information package located under the Investor Relations tab of our website.
I would also like to request that callers observe a 2-question limit during the Q&amp;A portion of our call in order to give everyone a chance to participate.
If you have additional questions please rejoin the queue.
I will now turn the call over to Drew Alexander.
Thank you Michelle and thanks to all of you for joining us.
We are very pleased with a strong start to 2013.
We once again made significant progress in achieving our 3 strategic objectives.
Number one operations were very strong for the quarter.
Number two our capital recycling activities are moving forward.
And number three we further strengthened our balance sheet with some important financing transactions during the quarter.
Our first quarter results were excellent with strong Same Property NOI growth of 3.9% and an increase in occupancy to 93.7%.
Looking forward in 2013 retail sales have been a little bit choppy which provides an uncertain backdrop for our business.
We've been concerned the tax increase in the sequester would push sales down but falling gas prices and the wealth effect of a rising stock market and rising home prices seemed to have somewhat offset those factors.
Still the overriding driver impacting our operating metrics is the lack of new supply.
Even in Houston perhaps the strongest economy in the country we've seen very few in new development starts.
We're not seeing any significant new supply in any of our other markets either.
So our well-located properties which have great supermarket anchors along with discount ready-to-wear will continue to benefit from the scarcity of quality space.
As to our capital recycling efforts our acquisition and disposition production in the first quarter was a little slow.
However the activity in our pipelines and in the marketplace in general gives us confidence that we will hit our targeted levels for the year.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve to discuss our financial results.
Thanks Drew.
Recurring FFO was $0.48 per diluted share for the quarter up from $0.46 in the first quarter last year.
Our Same Property NOI growth was a strong 3.9% clearly above our guidance for the year up 2% to 3%.
The solid FFO and better-than-planned Same Property NOI growth benefited from bad debt recoveries and percentage rent collections from strong retailers sales.
Additionally several tenants that were budgeted to fall out at year end did not vacate their spaces until well into the first quarter.
These items added about $1.50 per share that may not re-occur going forward.
This was an outstanding quarter for operations which clearly reflects the strength of our operating platform and the quality of our portfolio.
Given the results of the first quarter it's likely we will be towards the upper end of our guidance range for Same Property NOI.
We expect the balance of 2013 to be in that 2% to 3% range.
We remain comfortable with our previous guidance of recurring FFO of $1.84 to $1.90 per share.
As you heard we are optimistic that we can meet our full year goals for acquisitions and dispositions however the timing of this activity can impact our ability to meet or exceed our FFO guidance.
Reported FFO for the first quarter was $0.53 per share compared to $0.46 per share in 2012.
Included in the 2013 amount was a benefit of $0.07 per share related to the write-off of an above-market mortgage intangible that was triggered upon the repayment of the mortgage offset by $0.02 preferred redemption costs.
So we had a very good quarter from an operating perspective.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We continue to enhance our financial position and liquidity through a series of transactions.
In mid-March we completed the issuance of $300 million of 3.5% 10-year notes.
With these proceeds we redeemed the $75 million of 6.75% Series D preferred shares and completely paid down our $500 million revolving credit facility.
Subsequent to quarter end we finalized an agreement to our revolver that allowed us to reduce our credit spread by 10 basis points and facility fees by 5 basis points.
More importantly we extended the maturity to 2017 with an option for 2 six-month extensions.
So as of yesterday we had full access to our $500 million line of credit as well as $50 million in cash that allows us to take advantage of growth opportunities as they arise to maintain our strong overall credit metrics and to better position us for future debt maturities.
At quarter end the company's net debt to EBITDA is a strong 6.18x and debt to total market cap remains low at only 35.4%.
Our intention is to keep our leverage below the 40% level.
So things are also very good on the financial front.
Johnny? Thanks Steve.
We're very pleased with the continued positive operating metrics the company produced during the first quarter.
3.9% Same Property NOI is a great start for 2013.
Our leasing velocity is up fallouts remain low and we had a slight occupancy pick-up during the first quarter which has traditionally been a tough period for retailers.
Our leasing velocity picked up at the end of the quarter after a bit of a slow start in January.
For the quarter we executed 142 new leases for an annual rent of $6.7 million.
A little better than last year.
In addition we currently have 92 leases in the negotiation stage of the leasing process.
That's an improvement over the last couple of years and a good indication that in the near term at least leasing has some good momentum.
Texas California and Florida continue to show solid demand.
But we're also seeing an increase in leasing activity from our Mid-Atlantic and Mountain regions.
These 2 regions contributed nearly 50% of their production during the first quarter.
It's very encouraging to see activity in Las Vegas Phoenix Raleigh and Atlanta picking up.
Renewals are good too.
We saw in 239 renewals in the quarter for $15.2 million in annual rent.
So far this year we renewed about 75% of 2013 expiring leases.
Rate renewals in the quarter was 3.9%.
New leases were about the same but it feels like we have more negotiating leverage with renewing tenants than new ones.
We still have some tough comps for leases signed in 2007 and commenced in 2008 rolling to the system.
So I think our previous guidance of 3% to 6% is appropriate.
Occupancy improves a little during the quarter up to 93.7% 10 basis points higher than last quarter and 30 basis higher than a year ago.
This is a little better than planned.
Shop space remained at 88.2%.
We still have some more to do to get to the midpoint of our overall occupancy guidance of 94% to 95% but given the consistently low fallout we've been experiencing in our leasing momentum we expect to achieve that number.
Several of you have already noticed our signed and not commenced space has risen to 250 basis points roughly 800 000 square feet.
We traditionally felt 150 to 180 was more in the normal range so it would be natural to see this as an indication of significant embedded Same Property NOI growth.
There are a couple of items I would like to point out.
Signed and not commenced is only 210 basis points where asset is categorized as Same Property.
And second those commencements are heavily weighted to the end of the year so they will benefit us in 2014 but the effect of 2013 is relatively small.
As you heard we're optimistic about the $175 million to $225 million for acquisitions and the $200 million to $300 million for dispositions.
During the quarter we sold 5 projects for pro rata share of $15.7 million.
We currently have about $100 million of property with a letter of intent or under contract to sell.
We are seeing some cap rate compression in those B assets we're selling.
We're seeing more sophisticated buyers showing up with access to good financing from CMBS market and from local banks.
On the acquisition side we're seeing very competitive pricing for core assets with very little new inventory being marketed.
During the quarter we bought the Sea Ranch Shopping Centre in Fort Lauderdale Florida.
It's a high-volume Publix-anchored center with the CVS.
We also have 2 supermarket-anchored shopping centers we expect to close within the next couple of weeks for about $70 million.
That would put us at almost $100 million halfway through the year.
In coastal market we see cap rates in the 5% to 5.75% range for core assets.
In other strong markets we see cap rates in the range of 5.5% to 6.5%.
We'll continue to maintain our discipline of buying great properties that are accretive to our shareholders.
So in closing we produced another good quarter with great Same Property NOI increasing occupancy improving leasing velocity and good prospects for our capital recycling.
Drew? Thanks Johnny.
This is a great start to 2013.
Operations are strong leasing is steady our balance sheet is solid the capital markets are wide open and extremely favorable the disposition markets are improving and there's activity in the acquisitions market albeit very competitive.
As such I'm extremely confident that we will continue to make great progress in our 3 strategic initiatives of continually improving operations recycling capital to improve our portfolio and maintaining a strong flexible balance sheet.
At WRI great people great properties and a great platform results in great progress.
I thank all of you for joining the call today and for your continued interest in Weingarten.
Operator we'll now be happy to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And from UBS we have Christy McElroy.
Research Division</strong> Steve I have a question on the 3 items that you mentioned as having contributed to the strength and the same-store NOI growth.
You mentioned bad debt recoveries.
Was that a onetime impact? Can you sort of quantify it in dollars and basis points impact to NOI growth? And did that flow through tenant recoveries or was that a net to operating expenses? Christie the 3 items that we identified quite frankly are -- and I think there was a lot of comments on the pre-call notes that came out about -- that we affirmed FFO guidance versus same property.
We indicated we be at the higher end.
Those items basically flow through those Same Property and FFO guidance.
So it's basically the same.
When you think about things like bad debt recoveries we have bad debt recoveries generally every quarter.
Fallout and we mentioned was a little slower to occur in the Q1 than we expected et cetera.
So those issues it's difficult to get our arms around exactly how much was unusual.
We estimated somewhere between $0.01 and $0.02.
But again that's -- there's a little bit of art to that as opposed to knowing exactly what it is.
Research Division</strong> So in terms of basis points addition on that 3.9% it's difficult to quantify? Yes.
We think generally it's 100 basis points or maybe even a little more.
Christie this is Johnny.
If you took out bad debt from last year and this year.
It would've been 3.3%.
That seems to be the biggest piece that you could really identify.
Research Division</strong> And so bad debt was a recovery this quarter as opposed to an expense? Correct.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> And what was the amount of the recovery? It's about -- well what we think is a little bit unusual is about $500 000.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then repairs and TIs [ph] just looking at your CapEx seem to be running low versus sort of what you've been seeing the last 2 years.
Can you give us a sense for sort of where should -- where we should expect CapEx will be relative to 2012 levels? I think that on repair and maintenance capital expenditures I think that's just a timing issue.
I would tell you normally if you look at 2012 is a good guide.
We don't -- I mean quite frankly we replaced roof and parking lots as needed and with the portfolio our size it's generally pretty ratably.
So we don't see any real fluctuation there.
So this is a timing issue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the internal leasing fees that are footnoted on that schedule is that something that runs through G&amp;A or operating expense? It does.
Basically it is part of what is capitalized into leasing costs.
But that's the piece that you see flowing through on that page.
Yes those costs are -- a piece of that is in G&amp;A.
From Stifel Nicolaus we have Nathan Isbee online.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Your stock prices had -- has had a nice run in this clearly a much-lower cost of capital for you here.
I'm just curious if you can address how that might impact your acquisition plans over the next year or so? It's Drew.
We've always looked at the long term and feel that our cost of capital is the return that shareholders expect going forward.
So we are comfortable buying good assets I would say in the middle 5 cap rate range as long as they have good growth.
And I think we're much more focused on the long term.
We're obviously very happy and feel proud of the fact that stock prices improved but  we're not going to just ratchet up our acquisitions and get a lot more aggressive in the prices we pay because of it.
We're going to continue doing what we think is the long-term right thing buying goods assets with high barriers to entry and further cleaning the geographic portfolio and selling some of the centers that are in smaller towns and more outlying areas.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> How much would you say that that's changed over the last 3 to 6 months? And have you changed any of your geographic focus to some of the more infill cities basically? I'll let Johnny add on but I don't think we have changed our focus at all.
We are active in the 12 states that we talked about from Washington State basically the coastal states through Washington D.C.
plus Las Vegas and Denver those 20 to 25 markets depending how you count them are where we focus using our local resources our so-called boots on the ground to find things that enhance the value.
So we are always comfortable looking.
Las Vegas has been a very good market for us and if we could find the right center there we'd add to things.
Texas is obviously hot bought some great things in California last year Atlanta.
So really look we have our own rankings internally of how we see those places but really looking at those 12 states.
Anything to add Johnny? No.
I think as you look at where our regional offices are that's a really good proxy for where we're looking to buy property and where we don't have close contact to assets primarily in the Midwest that's a lot of where we're looking to dispose of things Nate.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just focusing on Vegas for a second.
There has been some discussion about the housing recovery there.
Anything you guys have seen specifically on the ground that would support that? No Nate.
It's really difficult for me to correlate our -- exactly what's happening with our assets to the housing recovery.
What I can tell you is is that Las Vegas performed extremely well for Weingarten Realty during the downturn in 2009 and 2010.
We started to experience some issues on into 2011 with some rising vacancy and the lack of some leasing.
Over the last several months we've had very good progress with leasing.
And my expectation is based on what we have worked in the negotiation stage we'll be able to see a significant increase in occupancy in Las Vegas in the next quarter or so.
And then I would expect on into 2014 some really nice pickup in Same Property NOI.
Our properties in Las Vegas are very well located.
They have great density and most of them are very simple supermarket-anchored shopping centers.
From RBC Capital Markets we have Richard Moore online.
LLC Research Division</strong> On the development side of the equation I mean you guys always have been big developers I mean what are you seeing out there? You only have a few projects underway but is there any thought that in some market maybe the ones you've indicated on the call today there might be something new to pursue? Rich it's Drew.
We as you know sort of retooled our model and our going with a strong team of folks again in the regional offices who are focused on both acquisitions and development.
So we think we're covering all the bases very efficiently.
And we actually did just a big strategic review of all the developments going on and got very comfortable that we are not missing much that would be if any that would be of interest to us.
So we're very encouraged.
ICS is coming up in a few weeks.
We've got a lot of meetings but we really just don't see quite yet the catalysts for a lot of new development.
It's getting closer but the tenants are obviously very focused on their rent expense and for the time being able to fill their store count bucket with existing opportunities.
I personally think there's been a reasonable amount of inflation and when the economy gets traction there'll be even more.
Such that I think you could see box rentals in some markets 30% 40% even 50% higher.
So we're working it.
There are some complicated urban infill opportunities that we're working on but I just don't see it becoming a hundreds of million dollar pipeline any time soon.
But obviously as the -- as we and everybody else fill out their boxes we'll need to build more new space.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's good Drew.
And then on that same vein as you look at Page 12 where you have this -- the supplemental where you have the new development-phased projects I mean are those things really -- really just saying it's not quite there at the moment.
So are those things really projects I guess or is that more of the category down below which is other raw land that is just you're waiting to figure out if something's going to happen? There are nuances to a lot of it Rich where it's technically correct like the first one on -- in Wake Forest there is a bit of shopping center there.
So it is -- it's technically in the right bucket but it is arguable that that one isn't that different from some of the other raw land.
And then in Las Vegas the Decatur site is sort of at the other extreme.
There's an open Target and open WinCo.
We are actively working with some fast food users and some -- probably going to build a multi-tenant building.
So we will be bringing modest portions of that one into the existing property.
So there are some nuances but the distinction in the report is accurate.
We are making nice progress do have some deals working to sell some of the tracks [ph] but while the market is better in order to sell big amounts of raw land one would have to sell to speculators.
So one would have to sell to people who are looking at 25% 30% IRR so one would have to discount it pretty substantially and given our overall dispositions and need for capital we don't see a need to fire sell any of the unimproved land.
From Hilliard Lyons we have Carol Kemple.
Research Division</strong> Do you know what your ground lease rent was in the quarter? We have that in the supplemental don't we? At year end.
Hey Carol can we get back with on you that? From Green Street Advisors we have Cedrik Lachance online.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to go back to the same-store line of question.
I'm just trying to put the pieces together and when I look at your commenced basis and let's focus on the retail because it's really -- it appears to me virtually everything in the portfolio.
You've had no real change in occupancy and when we look at releasing spreads it's marginally positive but maybe on 10% 15% of portfolio's so it wouldn't contribute much to same-store growth.
I have a hard time reconciling the 3.9% same store with hardly any gain in occupancy.
Can you help me run through that? Well a lot of Cedrik what I think that you're seeing is kind of this built-in increases of that we have.
We've talked a lot about that over the last several quarters that we are getting regular increases from the tenants.
I think some of that is that part of it probably I think almost 1.5% to 2% is kind of what we've thought that that would be.
And then there are just some increases in rent and some changes in the nature of the portfolio.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So from your perspective it's largely your annual rent bumps that contribute to same store at this point? Right.
And you have a little bit of percentage rent to that.
You do have some BMR pickup in terms of the tenants that have commenced maybe last year.
If you had a tenant that commenced in the last half of last year then you're going to get that bump in the first quarter of this year even though you may not have a specific occupancy bump now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And thinking about the annual releasing spreads or the -- sorry the annual rent bumps that you can negotiate in your leases where do you get the most bang for the buck? Is it in small shops? Is it in junior anchors and anchors? Can you segment by buckets what you're able to negotiate at this point in terms of annual rent bumps? I think Cedric you obviously have better negotiating leverage with the smaller tenants.
We have been able to get some from the boxes but not very many.
And again from the supermarkets we do get some but not a lot.
Cedric it's Drew.
The other thing to bear in mind in terms of your literal question is you get annual rent bumps often from the small tenants.
From the large tenants you typically get a rent bump every 5 years or so but it's larger.
Now over time you have different boxes who are hitting that 5-year anniversary every year.
But that's where it -- it can move around a bit depending on upon just the universe of boxes versus shop tenant.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of -- I'm just thinking about the housing recovery and what it can do to your leasing ability.
Do you see any demand on the small-shop side in particular from tenants that boosted I guess by -- the housing recovery by the improvement in their home price feel the confidence to go hope -- to go open small shops in your centers? Cedrik I would answer that question I guess maybe in a roundabout way.
Our experience over the last let me say 12 months is that there has been very little formation of mom-and-pop businesses.
So I guess you really don't see it.
Most of what we're seeing is a franchise or a national regional tenants filling in spaces that were formerly mom-and-pops.
It's difficult for me to imagine that they are really driven by that increase in home prices.
But I think there certainly is some increased spending associated with that.
The general wealth effect that we're seeing was not only the home prices but the stock market and I think that is positively impacting sales and probably indirectly influencing national and regional tenants opening up space.
From Wells Fargo Securities we have Tammi Fique on the line.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was just wondering what return you're currently generating on the development portfolio of $100 million that you completed last year.
And is the 7% returns still a stabilized target for that portfolio? I think that's a reasonable number.
Obviously you're looking at a lot of different things and some projects work well and some projects didn't.
Going forward we are generally looking at returns of about 200 basis points over the exit cap rates.
So in most of markets that we'd be looking to developing you could talk about something like a 6 -- an 8 becomes a 6 or a 6.5 is an 8.5.
So as you look through the legacy of some of the problem projects we're making nice progress on things.
The current return and the return that we stabilize that when we took those projects off at the end of last year is below that.
But as you saw we had a nice pick up in the occupancy generally so things are moving in the right direction.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And so I guess last quarter you mentioned that the yield on those development projects was 4.5% where is that today? My guess is it's moved up towards 5%.
But now that those are in the existing portfolio we don't really segregate them out.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is most of the outside gap between the commenced and lease rate today related to development portfolio? Well some of it is.
It's -- the new developments that are categorized as new developments are not included in occupancy.
So the new developments that were just transitioned into the portfolio do have a significant amount of a space that is leased and not commenced.
Those will have to be in the portfolio for 1 year prior to the time that they moved to same property so the -- yes and no.
I want to also go back and answer Carol's question about the ground lease.
There's a summary on Page 44 from the supplemental in the fourth quarter supplemental.
Basically we have 229 ground leases in the average ABRs -- $8.53.
And there's more detail in the supplemental there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then [Audio Gap] gap between commenced and lease rate.
Should by the end of this year we expect that to be a more normalized level the 150 to 180 basis points that you referenced? It is my expectation that it will be closer to normal.
I obviously would like to lease some more space.
And I think I have more runway leasing space before I get to what I would consider to be a normal amount of specs to lease.
I think we've said before we think we can get to 95 a little bit over 95.
Drew once told me 96.
But -- so I still have some movement there that I'll be able to lease some more space but I think it'll be more normal.
And again it's really only 210 basis points today in the same property.
One of the other things we've mentioned before that we're also working with as we move in the more and more high-barrier entry markets the permit process is a lot longer.
We have our regional offices.
We have the great relationships.
We can get things done as fast as anybody and faster than most but a lot of municipalities are still under some amount of governmental fiscal pressure so the permit offices and everything can take some time.
So some of it is a function of the increased quality of the portfolio the higher percentage of assets and high-barrier entry markets such that we are -- we're not 100% sure what the new normal looks like but as Johnny said we do think it'll narrowing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just with regard to the asset you have under letter of intent for sale.
I think you said you have $100 million.
Do you expect those to close this quarter? It would be my expectation that most of that would close in the second quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the 250 basis points negative spread between dispositions and acquisitions in light of the compression you're seeing on the B Class side of the market do you expect that it will be the range still? We have -- we've maintained that range in our business plan and in the projections that we've had.
I think some of the compression we've seen is somewhat anecdotal and we're not prepared yet to declare that as the new normal.
From Robert W.
Baird we have Paula Poskon online.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering what your thoughts are heading into ICSC if you're hearing any kind of pretty conference chatter what you're hoping to hear when you get there.
Sure.
Paula we are very excited about ICSC as we always are.
It's a good time to go see a lot of our old friends and then share the old war stories.
We have a pretty nice dance card for this year and again -- what I've said before is what we're really seeing is a lot of national regional and franchise businesses expanding.
And certainly everybody is interested in expanding into Texas and into Houston.
So we're very encouraged about the activity that we've talked with folks.
Everybody is under pressure to make sure that they're maintaining margins and so they're pretty tight on the rent but that's kind of the business that we're in.
So we're excited and looking forward to May.
[Operator Instructions] Looks like we have no further questions.
I will now turn it back to the speakers for any final remarks.
Well since we ended on ICSC let me just say I look forward to seeing a lot of you out there.
I know a number of you will be out there.
I think Steve and Michelle's dance card is pretty full.
Johnny and I really focus time out there on the tenant relationships as Johnny mentioned.
So I know ICSC will be great.
It's frankly not as important to as it used to be because we do so much during the year with all of our global meetings and portfolio reviews with folks but it is still an important time for the industry to get a sense of things.
And we are very optimistic about it.
We know it will be very good because as Johnny said we've set up all the meetings and we know what the agenda is.
So we look forward to it look forward to seeing a lot of you being around all day and we very much appreciate your interest in Weingarten.
Thanks so much.
And this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Weingarten Realty Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Brandon and I'll be the operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Michelle Wiggs.
Michelle you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter 2013 conference call.
Joining me today is Drew Alexander President and CEO; Stanford Alexander Chairman; Johnny Hendrix Executive Vice President and COO; Steve Richter Executive Vice President and CFO; and Joe Shafer Senior Vice President and CAO.
As a reminder certain statements made during the course of this call are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
More information about these factors is contained in the company's SEC filings.
Also during this conference call management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as funds from operations or FFO both recurring and reported which we believe help analysts and investors to better understand Weingarten's operating results.
Reconciliation to these non-GAAP financial measures is available on our supplemental information package located under the Investor Relations tab of our website.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Drew Alexander.
Thank you Michelle and thanks to all of you for joining us.
We are very pleased to report another great quarter.
Operations remain extremely strong.
Our capital recycling program was very active and we continue to improve our balance sheet metrics each of these representing an important strategic objective of the company.
Our outstanding portfolio produced excellent second quarter results that included stronger-than-expected Same Property NOI growth of 5% and an increase in occupancy to 94.2%.
Looking forward we continue to see strength in our leasing efforts and we are cautiously optimistic that tenant fallout will remain minimal both of which should contribute to solid operating results.
With respect to our capital recycling efforts the future is less clear.
The Fed's talk of tapering clearly impacted long-term rates and we're carefully monitoring the effect this will have on cap rates although we've have not seen any evidence of movement as of yet.
So at this time we feel very good about selling property and less bullish about finding significant quality acquisitions which make economic sense.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve to discuss our financial results.
Thanks Drew.
recurring FFO was $0.49 per diluted share for the quarter up from $0.47 in the second quarter last year.
Consistent with last quarter FFO for the second quarter benefited from bad debt recoveries as well as lower-than-normal bad debt expense due to low tenant fallout.
These items contributed to a very strong Same Property NOI increase of 5% which was above our plan.
Also benefiting recurring FFO for the quarter was $900 000 of fee income resulting from the termination of a joint venture relationship.
Reported FFO for the second quarter was $0.37 per share compared to $0.45 in 2012.
Included in the 2013 amount was a noncash write-off of preferred redemption cost of $15.9 million or $0.13 per share related to our calling 200 million of our preferred F shares.
Also included in reported FFO was a benefit of about $0.005 per share related to a payment received against a previously reserved note receivable.
So bottom line we had another very good quarter.
However some of the items like bad debt recovery fee income from JVs et cetera that contributed positively may not recur as we move through the second half of the year.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We continue to enhance our financial position and liquidity.
In April we finalized an amendment in our revolving credit facility that allowed us to reduce our credit spread by 10 basis points and facility fees by 5 basis points and extend the maturity to 2017 with options for 2 6-month extensions.
Additionally in June we redeemed 200 million of our preferred F shares.
However we still have 150 million of the series F outstanding.
As of yesterday we had less than $100 million drawn under our line of credit which will likely be paid down with dispositions over the next few months.
Our balance sheet is in great shape.
At quarter end the company's net debt to EBITDA was a strong 6.2x and debt to total market cap remains low at only 37.3%.
We remain committed to keep leverage below the 40% level so things are also very good on the financial front.
Moving to guidance.
All of our updated guidance information is included on Page 9 of the supplemental.
We are increasing recurring FFO to a range of $1.89 to $1.93 per share increasing the Same Property NOI to 3% to 3.5% lowering acquisitions to $100 million to $150 million lowering investment in new development to $15 million to $50 million and finally increasing dispositions to $250 million to $350 million.
Johnny? Thanks Steve.
Clearly the company has performed well.
Same Property NOI averaged 4.4% for the first half of the year.
Leasing velocity has picked up.
Occupancy moved up to 94.2% earlier than we had expected.
Tenant fallout and bad debt are lower than we expected and we received higher-than-anticipated percentage rent.
We have great properties.
Mostly supermarket and discount clothing anchored these assets are located in great markets with the best job and population growth in the country.
We have a great platform that is a built to focus on leasing and operating our properties efficiently.
And finally we have great associates.
There are also market factors impacting our results.
Most significantly the lack of new inventory coming into the market has helped tremendously.
In addition we are enjoying this low interest rate environment which is propelling the stock market and housing prices and in turn providing optimism for consumers to spend.
Looking at our Same Property NOI we produced an average increase of 4.7% over the last 4 quarters.
I expect that to moderate as we start comping against a very strong second half of 2012.
We believe 2% to 3% is realistic for each of the next 2 quarters.
Most of our Same Property NOI increases are attributable to increasing occupancy over the previous periods.
While most of our regions performed very well during the quarter we saw strong Same Property NOI results from Texas with a 6.4% increase Florida with a 6% increase and California with a 7.3% increase.
These are also the markets that have been the significant drivers increasing occupancy.
Today Texas is at 95.6% leased Florida is 95.2% and California is 96.3%.
These 3 states represent over 50% of the company's net operating income.
Given the strength we are experiencing throughout the portfolio it's my expectation we will continue to increase occupancy over the balance of 2013 and approach 95% by year end.
Space that is signed and not commenced continues to be greater than we would consider normal.
So as that space is commenced it will fuel future Same Property NOI increases.
At quarter end we had a little over 700 000 square feet not commenced.
We expect to commence about 400 000 square feet through 2013 and the balance during 2014.
We continue to make good progress on spaces under 10 000 square feet.
At quarter end we were 88.6% leased up 40 basis points from the previous quarter.
Spaces over 10 000 square feet picked up 60 basis points to 97.7%.
I did want to mention that we are adding additional disclosure for same property occupancy on Page 26 of the supplemental.
Today we're 95% leased for same property.
As for leasing it's exciting to see our velocity pick up.
We executed 377 leases during the quarter representing almost $21 million in annual base minimum rent.
New leases were over $9 million and renewals just over $11 million.
Base minimum rent for new leases is up significantly from both last quarter and the second quarter of last year.
Rent growth for the quarter was 8% with new leases up 19.3%.
As we've discussed in the past a couple of transactions in any given quarter can have a significant impact on this particular metric good or bad.
For this quarter at Pike Center in Washington D.C.
we built a 21 000 square-foot Office Depot space that was at $10 a square foot with a Pier 1 and an Ethan Allen at a blended $43 per square foot.
This represents an annual increase of approximately $700 000 for this one space.
You exclude these 2 leases rent growth for the quarter was 3.5%.
As we've stressed over the years we're making most leasing decisions on the ground considering choices we have for each space.
I think we've consistently made the right choices.
And now that occupancy has improved we generally have a little more leverage to improve rent growth going forward.
So you can see operationally we're hitting on all cylinders.
Shifting to our recycling program.
We've made great progress improving the quality of our portfolio.
Since 2007 we've sold $2.3 billion in assets.
We focused on selling centers that are small are located in small towns have independent supermarkets or have other tenancy concerns and reinvesting these proceeds in Class A shopping centers and gateway markets.
As a result our base rent has increased 21% and our average household income has increased 13% during that time period.
Year-to-date we've disposed of close to $124 million of property at a cap rate of 7.4%.
This is about 100 basis points better than we anticipated in our business plan which is reflective of a positive pricing environment over the last 6 months.
Today we have an additional 26 transactions representing about $270 million of assets that we've agreed to sell at around an 8% cap rate.
Not all those transactions will be finalized and some will slip into 2014.
So I think it's reasonable we can end the year toward the top of our $250 million to $350 million range.
To date we've not seen any impact from pricing from rising interest rates.
B assets today are selling at cap rates around 7% to 8% and there seems to be more buyers today than over the last 5 years.
In the last several quarters we've noticed the shift from local buyers to high-net-worth individuals private REITs and funds.
We've also bought a couple of great properties during the quarter.
We closed on Queen Anne in Seattle with our partner Bouwinvest.
This is the first asset for our venture that could eventually grow to around $225 million.
Queen Anne is in an affluent neighborhood with great density over 200 000 people in 3 miles with an incredibly high 68% college graduates.
We also closed on independent shopping center in Laredo Texas.
The center is anchored by an HEB Supermarket Ross TJ Maxx Hobby Lobby and several other national retailers.
The market we call South Texas including Laredo Corpus Christi and McAllen is an important region for us.
It's influenced by the Eagle Ford Shale energy play and an incredible pent-up demand from millions of people in Northern Mexico who have very limited buying opportunities.
These folks are crossing the border daily to shop in our retail centers.
Weingarten has 13 shopping centers in South Texas today representing about 5% of our net operating income.
Seven of those assets are anchored by high-volume HEBs and our centers there are over 96% leased.
We expect cap rates for core assets will remain in the 5% to 6% range at least until some of the dedicated money has run through the system.
That being the case along with increases in interest rates it will be difficult for us to invest profitably over the next several quarters.
We will remain disciplined and look for opportunities to invest where we see good quality properties with good growth.
Drew? Thanks Johnny.
We're very pleased with our results through the first half of 2013.
Operations are great as occupancy continues to climb.
Leasing is steady bolstered by tight supply.
Our balance sheet is solid further enhanced by ongoing dispositions.
While the world economy remains unpredictable we remain confident that our great people great properties and great platform will allow us to produce great results for the balance of 2013 and beyond.
I thank all of you for joining the call today and for your continued interest in Weingarten.
Operator we'd now be very happy to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And from Citigroup we have Quentin Velleley on the line.
Research Division</strong> Just firstly a point of clarification.
That $900 000 of net joint venture termination fee was that included or excluded from your 5% same-store NOI growth number? Thanks Quentin.
This is Steve.
Same Property NOI excludes the JV the $900 000 of JV fees.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then just secondly the 2 leases that drove the very large new lease spreads at the Pike your TIs also jumped to about $22 a square foot in the quarter on new leases.
Was a large proportion of that jump related to those 2 new leases at the Pike? Quen this is Johnny.
In fact no.
Those were actually very very low.
The real drivers of the increase were a couple of larger deals.
I think you can see that we did 5 boxes during the quarter and that's really what drove it.
We had an Ulta kind of mixed in there.
And I think you probably know their TIs are relatively high.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the $22 is not a new normal for leasing TIs? I do not think so no.
From SunTrust we have Ki Bin Tim on the line.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you maybe talk a little bit more about if there's any future lumpy leases like The Pike that you just did that could probably -- that may potentially provide another boost to same-store NOI going forward? Ki Bin this is Johnny.
I don't see anything like that in the near term.
Obviously I hope we can lease some more space.
We just don't have that many more large spaces.
I do want to kind of make sure you do or aware of something.
Pike is not in our Same Property NOI number.
We've owned that for less than a year.
Generally what we do is we'll look at all the assets that we own for the year as of January 1.
And we have about 90% of all of our NOI in our Same Property NOI but acquisitions generally take about a year to get into the system.
From RBC Capital Markets we have Wes Golladay on line.
LLC Research Division</strong> About a year ago you guys had identified 60 assets that you wanted to dispose of.
How far along are you with that once you get to the $250 million to $350 million of dispositions? It's Drew.
We have made extremely good progress on the disposition program that we outlined mostly in our Investor Day back in April 2011.
And as Johnny mentioned we've got a robust pipeline right now.
And we anticipate that we'll have a very good year in '13.
We sort of see '14 as another year where we'll have a good amount of dispositions and then return to sort of more normalized.
So a lot of things have changed.
We make those decisions locally as market conditions change.
I think we've done a fantastic job of migrating the portfolio when you look at the concentrations that we have in major metropolitan areas in California Texas Florida Georgia et cetera.
So real good progress.
Probably another year or so to go.
The transformation is certainly most of the way done.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And now turning to the acquisition side for Bouw [Bouwinvest] investment I think you mentioned $200 million of additional acquisition opportunities.
Will this be in a specific region? We are targeted I think out West there generally center -- West of the Mississippi again looking at principally supermarket-anchored major metropolitan areas.
From Robert W.
Baird we have Jonathan Pong online.
Please go ahead.
Research Division</strong> When do you expect to hear back about the Walter Reed development rights with Heinz? And what would be sort of the scope in terms of size of square footage or cost you would be involved in on that project should you be aware of those rights? Jonathan it's Drew.
It's a little unclear as to exactly when.
it's the city and it's politics in Washington D.C.
But we think sometime in the fall we think one of the beauties of our proposal is we've got a very strong team and have done a tremendous amount of outreach in the neighborhood and can very much customize our pro forma and plans to what makes sense in the best project that can be put together.
Which in this case the best involved a lot of different things in terms of green space and park and a lot of things that the city and the community wants as well as a good tax base and a good ad valorem tax base and sales tax base.
So a lot of things would have to be balanced out.
It's estimated that the retail part will be around 200 000 but it could be 150 000 it could be 250 000.
And we estimate very broad numbers that our investment be somewhere around $80 million in the retail park.
But again those are very broad numbers.
There's still a lot of discussions to go.
It's an exciting project.
We are in the somewhat final round and very pleased with our capabilities being recognized.
But it is a very involved process with both the federal government and D.C.
so should have better clarity sometime "later this fall." Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
And I guess when you talked about the acquisition markets obviously a very challenging environment right now for high-quality deals.
You also have quite a few assets that are tied up in JVs.
Where -- how do you think about those assets as potential consolidation opportunities for you? And where do you think your partners' minds are in terms of them looking for a potential way to liquidate their investments? I think it all depends.
There are times when I've heard people talk about getting such a good deal from their joint venture partners.
I wonder if their joint venture partner was on the phone if they'd feel comfortable with that.
So it's something that we will look at and evaluate each deal on its merits.
There are times where it makes sense for us to go ahead and sell.
And there are certainly times if our partner wants to get out for some reason and wants a deal with good certainty we'd be happy to buy.
But to my mind each deal needs to be looked at on its own merit and we need to be sensitive to our fiduciary responsibilities to all our various stakeholders.
From Green Street Advisors we have Jason White on the line.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could break down the components of same-store NOI? I saw that your retail come in -- occupancy increased 90 basis points and you said there was a bad debt benefit as well.
But if you can kind of quantify those? Jason this is Johnny.
I can kind of give you the definition or kind of the pieces that we include in Same Property NOI.
I said earlier we look at assets that we've owned for a year as of January 1.
We include rent common area maintenance taxes and insurance including adjustments.
We include bad debt charges and recoveries.
We do not include terminations and we don't include joint venture fees.
So that's really roughly a breakdown of kind of everything that we include in Same Property NOI.
I might just add to that that in the quarter we had some -- it's tough to really know exactly how much for example bad debt recovery is and then how much of -- where bad debt would be.
But we think somewhere in $0.01 $0.015 kind of range is what we think is would not recur going forward.
But again that's a soft number because it's a very difficult to really get your arms around that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So as a percent of the same-store we can probably use that $0.01 to back into the percentage contribution ahead of the 5%? Jason this is Johnny.
I can tell you that the Same Property NOI would have been 4.4% without bad debt.
I mean that's the number.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then second part is when you look at your acquisition guidance is now lowered and disposition guidance was raised and you said you actually are going to be playing at the high end of the range but FFO guidance was bumped a couple of -- a couple of percent.
So trying to figure out how -- obviously there was some onetime items there that probably will merit an increase in FFO.
But it seems like the other pieces acquisitions and dispositions would be weighing on FFO.
Could you talk a little bit about that and how that functions into the new guidance? This is Drew.
I'll try to give a broad overview and Steve can chime in with more details if that's helpful.
But as you've observed it's something that we're quite proud of the fact that we're comfortable with the change in guidance even though we do expect a good amount of disposition and probably not that much in acquisitions.
A lot of it has to do in fairness with timing that while we are working on a lot of properties.
When you look at when they will close throughout the remainder of the year it's not as dramatic obviously as it closed earlier in the year.
And then a lot of it goes to Johnny's point about the amount of property that we have that is signed and not commenced and what we see commencing through the rest of the year as well as that knock on wood the fallout situation's been pretty good.
So as we look at all the different projections we feel pretty good about it.
I mean Steve may give a little more.
The only thing that I would add is you also have to dial in the fact that we deem -- did redeem the $200 million of preferred and that has a contribution for the balance of the year.
From DISCERN we have David Wigginton on the line.
Inc</strong> Just a question on tenant fallout.
It seems like lower-than-expected fallout has clearly been a trend this year not only on your portfolio but across your peers.
And I was wondering your revised same-store NOI growth guidance does that reflect a revision of your expectations for tenant fallout of the remainder of the year or was that just a reflection of what's happened year-to-date? Yes David.
This is Johnny.
We definitely have -- that is part of the revised guidance that our expectation is -- we will see less fallout than we had initially expected.
We monitor our AR on a regular basis and I'm meeting once a month with our collectors.
And we generally have a very short list of folks who are past due.
So we don't see a lot of fallout going forward to the rest of 2013.
Inc</strong> Okay and then just kind of following up on that.
I know it's early to be talking about 2014 but it certainly seems like we're in an environment that's conducive to lower than maybe historical average tenant fallout.
And as you guys kind of think about your annual budgeting process I mean are you looking at historical averages? Or how do you go about thinking about that? And would you expect fallout in 2014 to continue sort of along the same lines that we've seen this year? Yes David what we do when we look at the budget we're in the middle of this process today is we're looking at a space-by-space review of every tenant and our expectations will be whether it's to renew or stay in the same space or to grow.
And so we're kind of projecting that by tenant.
And our projections are that it will stay relatively low pretty similar to what we've seen over the last several quarters.
The one caveat of course is -- what happens with the economy and we certainly can't control that.
And our outlook is that the economy and the markets we're in will continue to grow at a modest pace and that there will be job growth in those markets.
So kind of putting all those together our anticipation is fallout will remain relatively low.
Another interesting piece that you can look at is in 2007 we had about only 65% national tenants.
Today we are almost 80% national and regional tenants.
So the expectation for those tenants would be that there would be less fallout.
Some of that is due to the recycling efforts that we've gone through.
And then some of that is just due to the fact that there hasn't been a lot of new business formation for mom and pop.
So for the most part what we replaced them as they fall out with is more regional or national tenants.
From SunTrust we have Ki Bin Kim back on the line.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
Your spread between commenced and leased percentages have tightened a little bit today.
Just from a longer-term perspective what is the structural gap between those 2 metrics? Yes.
This is Johnny Ki Bin.
Drew and I kind of talk about this a lot.
I think there's one argument that could be made that GAAP is wider today than it has been historically.
On historical basis it's about 180 basis points in our portfolio.
And I don't know if it takes longer to get permitted or that's all part of it.
But it does seem to be wider than we are used to.
I really don't know if that's a structural change or that's just kind of -- just because we've leased a lot of space.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I think you guys mentioned a little bit about your {indiscernible] joint ventures.
You do have a lot of couple of them coming through in the next like 2 -- around 2 years.
I -- how would you describe those -- the portfolio quality of your joint ventures for the ones that are coming due? Like I think AEW is one of them.
Is it better -- higher quality better than your existing portfolio or similar? And I guess you'll talk more about it when you get closer to it but are those things that you would rather initially buy? Again This is Drew.
I think we'll look at everything case by case.
Factually one of the AEW deals Lone Star deal does have a lot of Houston area assets which is good.
There are in some cases some independent supermarkets which is something that we have to look at carefully in terms of how the REIT public market values those versus the private markets.
And in a lot of cases we've historically been extremely comfortable with these operators a lot of them doing business in the Hispanic market which is obviously huge.
But it is something that a lot of factors would go into again a decision on a case-by-case asset-by-asset basis really.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And this last question could you remind me -- you do have a pretty sizable land bank.
How much of that has been written down during the downturn if at all? There are definitely -- we may have to get back to you with the specific numbers.
There have definitely been some impairments over the years in the millions of dollars certainly but -- Tens of millions Steve tells me.
But I think specifically we may want to follow back to you guys.
It's going to take a little bit research to grab that.
The good news is we feel comfortable in a broad perspective with the approximately $100 million $105 million we have today.
We've got more deals working than we've seen.
Everything takes time in terms of selling property.
A lot of these cases we're going through rezoning things.
But we do think we're making some progress on -- in a lot of cases selling in some cases we see some seeds of some new developments.
So it will be a multiyear project but we are making some progress on that.
But I think we'll get back to you with the specific impairment numbers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But you said the current GAAP land bank value is 105? Looking at it it's really closer to 104 103.7.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
I know you'll get back to me with the numbers.
But what was the write-down -- When was the write-down? If it was onetime or I'm not sure if it's multiple fees...
It was over a couple of different quarters as I recall.
So that's where I think we'll have to settle back and look.
That was starting in 2009 and probably again in '10.
And I would add that we according to GAAP have to review those on a quarterly basis but annually we go out and get BOBs [ph] and other things to confirm the value of our land bank.
So I think we're very comfortable with the numbers.
And let me just also say we are generally very comfortable with the numbers.
But on any piece of land just like any other inventory that a retailer might have if somebody offers you 90% 85% of what you think it's worth with a quick certain close it is something to think about versus holding on to the land.
So it is something that while we're generally comfortable we are not in a position to promise there will never never ever be an impairment again.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right and -- but when you -- I mean when you look across your land bank and in conjunction with your development pipeline and your maybe future development how much do you -- what percent of land bank do you think is evolvable within 3 years versus those that are probably structurally longer-term impaired that you maybe want to get rid of? Or just kind of...
We hesitated to put a number on that.
We think that there are some opportunities there.
But we frankly don't see is really huge number such that we're calling it to your attention.
And the timing of it is still so uncertain.
And really frankly a lot of it is sort of up to us.
A great example is a property we have in Las Vegas Decatur in the North side of Las Vegas where we have an open Walmart and a Target -- excuse me an open WinCo and a Target and we could do some box deals.
But the rent the tenants are willing to pay today just doesn't really motivate me to want to ink those long-term deals.
We also in a lot of cases are seeing different uses in a lot of cases residential is given where some of the tenants are in paying new build rent that the residential use as a higher and better use that some will be sold that way.
So it's very much case by case and I really hesitate to put a specific number out there.
I don't think it's huge and I want to continue to do the right long-term thing which is versus feel some pressure to make a number I gave you all.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's fine.
And for the small cases where you think it is different and better use for that land is there more -- if it was residential would it be an outright sale or would you actually joint venture and partially own that...
Generally a sale yes.
From Green Street Advisors we have Jason White back on the line.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One follow-up question.
On the nonrecurring fee income is that netted out in your recurring FFO estimate? I see there is an other line item but it's not described what's in there.
The JV fee income is included in recurring income but we're acknowledging that it's not likely to recur at that the $900 000 going forward.
So I don't mean to be redundant but it's kind of like it's non-recurring recurring.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So it's in recurring FFO that that fee income? Yes.
For the first half of the year.
But it is something that in our projections for the second half of the year and in our guidance to you all as Steve said it won't be sort of a run rate duplicatable in the second half.
correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just making sure whether it was in or out on Page 6 of your supplemental.
It says non-recurring and it was $1 million.
And then I saw on Page 5 it doesn't look to be excluded from recurring FFO.
So I just wanted to make sure definition-ally it was in or out.
So it is in recurring FFO then? That is correct.
It is in recurring.
And as I mentioned in a response to a previous question we have about $900 000 $1 million is about $0.0075.
And then we have another $0.005 or so for the bad debt pieces.
The difference between our $0.49 and what I would call kind of a recurring run rate kind of number is $0.015 difference if you will.
But that's where the bad debt gets extremely difficult to estimate at times.
From DISCERN we have David Wigginton back on the line.
Inc</strong> Of the 700 000 of square feet that's set to commence over the next few quarters what percentage or what's the breakdown between anchor versus non-anchor? I think about it it's probably around half about half anchor and half shop space.
Inc</strong> Okay.
So 350 000...
Portfolio overall -- overall the portfolio we got about 62% of the space is over 10 000 square feet 38% is under.
I think we're 90% -- almost 98% leased in the boxes.
So that's -- I think that's probably pretty close.
Inc</strong> Okay.
So then just looking at the potential upside then to your occupancy levels here I mean you're probably pretty close to structural occupancy for your anchors.
You're looking pretty pretty good on the non-anchors as well.
I mean how much higher do you think you can get from that 88.5% lease rate on the non-anchor stuff? Well we're kind of -- kind of hearing a little giggling here because we've had some back-and-forth on really what is full occupancy.
Back in 2006 we were -- we're 97% leased in California and 97.5% leased in Florida.
And certainly with the higher quality assets that we have been in the central part of the U.S.
I don't think it's unreasonable to think that we can move up into that 97% range.
So the portfolio generally I think you could see a 96% occupancy rate.
Inc</strong> Okay.
And then just final question.
And I know I've had this conversation with you guys before but I can't find it in my notes.
When you report -- you're reporting your lease spreads is that signed for the quarter right? Yes.
Inc</strong> That's not what's commencing.
So what's the typical lag between when you sign something and when it commences? It really varies because if you have a TJ Maxx for example they're going to want to hit a window either back to school or holidays.
And I wouldn't even begin to tell you what -- there would be an average.
I'd tell you shop space will probably be 60 to 120 days again depending on what windows they're trying to do what the municipality is how we're trying to get entitled.
So it will be very difficult on the anchors to even give you anywhere close to a number.
[Operator Instructions] And it looks like we have no further questions.
I will now turn it back to the speakers for any final remarks.
Thank you Brandon.
This is Drew.
I just want to thank everybody for their interest in Weingarten and their participation on the call.
We'll be around later if there are more questions.
Also I wanted to mention we got a save-the-date card out for a deep dive analyst investor presentation with a bunch of senior management.
It's on Tuesday December 10.
Again the save-the-date cards went out.
But I just want to remind everybody of it Tuesday December 10 at the Pierre Hotel in New York City.
So we look forward to seeing many of you there.
And again I think it will be very interesting to get into a lot of the portfolio transformation.
Hear from Patty Bender as well as Johnny Steve myself as well as some of the other members of the management team.
So I hope everyone can make that Tuesday December 10 of this year.
So again thanks so much.
I know you all are busy with a lot of calls.
So everybody have a great day.
And this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Weingarten Realty's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Hilda and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Michelle Wiggs.
Ms.
Wiggs you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter 2013 conference call.
Joining me today is Drew Alexander President and CEO; Stanford Alexander Chairman; Johnny Hendrix Executive Vice President and COO; Steve Richter Executive Vice President and CFO; and Joe Shafer Senior Vice President and CAO.
As a reminder certain statements made during the course of this call are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
More information about these factors is contained in the company's SEC filings.
Also during this conference call management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as funds from operations or FFO both recurring and reported which we believe help analysts and investors to better understand Weingarten's operating results.
Reconciliation to these non-GAAP financial measures is available in our supplemental information package located under the Investor Relations tab of our website.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Drew Alexander.
Thank you Michelle and thanks to all of you for joining us.
We are very pleased to report another great quarter.
Operations remain extremely strong.
Our capital recycling program was very active with both acquisitions and dispositions last quarter and we continue to improve our balance sheet with a successful bond offering shortly after quarter end each of these advancing an important strategic objective of the company.
The transformation of our portfolio is clearly producing excellent results for the quarter including stronger-than-expected Same Property NOI growth of 4.7% and rental increases on new leases of 9.4%.
Looking forward we see operations remaining solid through the fourth quarter but continued strong dispositions and the bond deal will provide downward pressure on FFO.
This was a very good quarter.
Our capital recycling will remain active for the balance of the year.
We are very pleased with our recent acquisition in Austin as we purchased this great property in less than 60 days from identification to close.
Generally acquisitions remain competitive and it's challenging to estimate where we'll have success.
So in summary we feel very good about selling property and less bullish about finding significant additional quality acquisitions which make economic sense.
As to new development we continued to make progress on our Hilltop development in Washington D.C.
and remain on schedule for 2015 opening.
We're already 73% leased and confident of reaching or exceeding our pro forma.
Leasing activity at our Tomball development in Houston continues as we move closer to stabilization on the initial phase.
We continue to look at a variety of opportunities and have a few things in the pipeline.
Overall the development market remains tough with high land prices and the tenants' unwillingness to pay the rents required to make economic sense from those deals.
Nevertheless we will remain fully engaged and are optimistic we'll find some opportunities over time.
Of course the challenges in finding acquisitions and new development also provide strength to our existing assets and demand for the properties that we're looking to sell.
I'll now turn it over to Steve for the financials.
Thanks Drew and good morning to everyone.
Recurring FFO was $0.51 per diluted share for the quarter up 10.9% from $0.46 per share in the third quarter of last year.
FFO for the third quarter benefited from improved occupancy which also contributed to a very strong Same Property NOI increase of 4.7% which was above our plan.
Recurring FFO also benefited from the redemption of 75 million of our preferred D shares in the first quarter of 2013 and 200 million of our preferred F shares late in the second quarter as well as the ongoing refinancing of debt maturities.
Offsetting these increases was the dilutive effect of our disposition program in 2012 and 2013.
Looking to the fourth quarter with our significant third quarter dispositions and our expectations for a strong fourth quarter we expect recurring FFO to be negatively impacted by around $0.02 per share.
Additionally the prefunding of our January 2014 maturities through our $250 million bond deal completed at the beginning of October will also cost us an additional $0.02 per share sequentially.
Reported FFO for the third quarter increased by 8.9% to $0.49 per share from $0.45 per share in 2012.
Included in the 2013 amount was a noncash impairment of unimproved land parcels totaling about $0.02 per share from pending sales transactions.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We have completed a successful bond offering right after quarter end.
We sold $250 million of 10-year bonds at a yield of 4.5% and a coupon based on a slight discount of 4.45%.
This transaction effectively prefunded the majority of our January 2014 debt maturities which totaled $285 million.
With all the volatility and uncertainty in the market place caused by the talk of tapering and the government shutdown and the debt ceiling negotiations we felt that executing this notes offering was effectively an insurance policy against significant market disruption.
You may remember that we also locked the treasury swap rate back in February on $150 million of this issuance which we closed out upon the completion of the bond deal resulting in an effective rate of 4.39%.
As a result of this transaction we have completely paid down our $500 million revolver and have about $170 million of cash invested in short-term investments.
Our balance sheet remains in great shape.
At quarter end the company's net debt to EBITDA was a strong 6.1x and debt to total market cap remains low at only 37.8%.
We remain committed to keeping leverage below the 40% level.
So things are also very good on the financial front.
As to how we see the rest of the year we are raising our guidance for recurring FFO from $1.89 to $1.93 upward to $1.93 to $1.95 per share.
We are optimistic that we will be at the upper end of our full year guidance on dispositions.
And with the acquisition of the Mueller Center we have exceeded our revised guidance with about $175 million closed to date but likely nothing significant to complete in the fourth quarter.
Additionally with stronger-than-expected Same Property NOI growth in the third quarter we have increased our guidance to 3.5% to 4% for the year.
On Page 9 of our supplemental all guidance metrics that have been updated are highlighted.
While I'm on the subject of the supplemental please note that we have provided additional disclosure on the same-store NOI performance including commenced occupancy which is on Page 26.
With respect to 2014 our preliminary guidance for recurring FFO is $1.95 to $2.01 per share.
Since we have not concluded our annual budget cycle we will provide more details at our Investor Day in New York City next month.
However we are assuming that in 2014 acquisitions and new development will about equal dispositions resulting in 2014 being capital-neutral from a balance sheet perspective but dilutive to earnings due to the higher cap rates on dispositions.
Johnny? Thanks Steve.
On the operations side the portfolio continues to produce solid results.
Same Property NOI of 4.7% for the quarter and 4.5% year-to-date improved occupancy to 94.4% including shop space that increased to 88.7%.
Leasing continues at a healthy pace.
Rent growth at 9.4% for new leases.
And we continue making great progress on our capital recycling program.
I want to address our recycling program first.
We sold about $116 million of assets during the quarter that's 8 shopping centers and 2 vacant pads.
Consistent with our strategy these centers are in small towns and demographically challenged markets.
Today we sold $246 million of property for an average cap rate of 7.7%.
That pricing is a little better than we estimated when we developed our business plan.
Based on assets we have under contract today I think it's likely we end the year at the upper end of our guidance range around $325 million.
We still have not seen cap rates move for non-core assets even after the sharp increase in rates we experienced this summer.
We continue to see high levels of demand for non-core shopping centers from private REITs funds and individual investors.
Fortunately we've been able to reinvest $175 million in high-quality shopping centers year-to-date.
This includes the 2 assets we purchased post quarter end.
We're very excited about the Mueller Regional Center in Austin Texas.
The project is part of the redevelopment of the former municipal airport close to downtown the state capital and the University of Texas.
The entire 700-acre site is being redeveloped as a new community consisting of new single-family and multifamily residential class A office and medical facilities including Dell Children's Hospital and the University of Texas Medical Center.
Our center was built in 2007 and is anchored by Home Depot Marshalls Bed Bath &amp; Beyond and PetSmart.
Core assets like Mueller have also held their pricing since early in the year.
Sellers have definitely maintained the leverage as most asset sales of A quality shopping centers are generating multiple offers from highly qualified buyers.
Core assets in gateway markets are still selling for cap rates in the 5.25% to 6.25% range.
In other metro areas we're seeing 5.5% to 6.5% cap rates for core properties.
While it's difficult to quantify the exact contribution our recycling program has made to the fantastic operating metrics we generated over the last 7 quarters.
We are enjoying stronger Same Property NOI and higher occupancy as a direct result of owning better assets.
We're going to talk in more detail about the transformation of our asset base at Investor Day so I hope you can join us in New York on December 10.
In addition to improved quality of our portfolio the scarcity of new supply in metropolitan markets continue to overshadow what is really a pretty average demand for space.
Even markets like Houston where we see stronger retail demand quality new development is stymied by high land prices driven by multifamily boom.
As I've mentioned throughout the year we're still not seeing the formation of new mom-and-pop businesses; and most of our new leases are coming from national regional or franchise operators.
These tenants want to be in Weingarten properties because our top tenants supermarkets and discount closing retailers continue to drive sales and traffic to our centers.
Rent growth for new leases continues to accelerate.
We produced an increase of 9.4% in the third quarter and 12.6% year-to-date.
We do see leverage slowly shifting to the landowner particularly in urban markets that have more depth of retailer demand.
As for leasing velocity I mentioned earlier retail demand is good but not great pretty consistent with the lackluster economic recovery.
While we have some mixed numbers I think the end result is very good.
We signed 109 new leases this quarter.
This is almost 30% fewer than a year ago.
These 109 leases represent about the same square footage as a year ago but the annual rent for the leases signed this quarter represent close to $6.5 million.
That's almost 20% higher than last year.
Isolating the shop space we observed pretty much the same pattern of fewer leases about the same square footage and more total rent.
Regionally we definitely see a pattern emerging that will impact us in 2014.
Our properties in the West Central and Southeast are close to prerecession occupancy levels 95% to 96% and we can see leasing velocity slowing in those areas.
Our Mountain and mid-Atlantic regions still have some runway and leasing is holding steady in those markets.
As we get closer to full occupancy we should expect the number of leases we see to decline.
Ultimately I see that as very good but it definitely is a change from the last couple of years.
During the quarter we were able to increase occupancy to 94.4%.
This is a slight improvement from last quarter and 50 basis points more than a year ago.
Our shop spaces over 10 000 square feet are almost 98% leased and our shop space rose to 88.7%.
My expectation is we'll see occupancy flatten out over the next few quarters.
We're getting tougher on renewals especially the boxes so we may experience some fallout that will hurt us short term but over time provide us with healthier tenants and higher rents.
We also expect there will be the usual fallout after the holidays.
I want to be clear.
We still see occupancy climbing to 95% to 96% but it could be choppy along the way.
Long term this will drive increased NAV.
But short term there could be some moderation in the trajectory of increases in occupancy and Same Property NOI.
We still have about 2.5% of our space leased and not commenced.
That's 750 000 square feet.
This will be an engine for solid Same Property NOI growth next year.
But as leasing slows and occupancy reaches that optimum level we anticipate the lease to commence spread will eventually settle around 1.75% to 2%.
Finally we're very pleased with the outstanding 4.7% Same Property NOI for the quarter and 4.5% year-to-date.
On top of the great numbers we produced in 2012 these are really outstanding numbers.
While the first 2 quarters saw significant bad debt variances the third quarter bad debt was actually about $100 000 worse than last year.
Almost 75% of the improvement from a year ago is in base minimum rent.
We also had a nice pickup in ancillary income.
We have another tough comp for next quarter and we're anticipating Same Property NOI to be between 2% and 3% which will result somewhere between 3.5% to 4% for 2013.
So in summary leasing is steady our recycling program is strong occupancy continues to climb and we delivered outstanding Same Property NOI for the last 7 quarters.
Drew? Thanks Johnny.
2013 has been a very good year.
Considering the economy has not exactly been on fire and there remains a great deal of uncertainty we've performed extremely well.
Again I speak of transformation.
Our portfolio is very different than it was when we initiated the strategic change and I think the results speak for themselves.
Speaking of transformation I hope all of you can join us at our Investors Day on December 10 in New York City where you'll get a deeper dive into the portfolio.
We will lay out the dramatic improvements that we've made.
You'll also hear from additional members of the outstanding management team of real estate professionals.
Please mark your calendars if you haven't done so already December 10.
Great people great properties and a great platform equals great results.
I want to thank all of you for joining the call today and for your continued interest in Weingarten.
Operator we'll now be happy to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ki Bin Kim from SunTrust Robinson.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could just comment -- provide a little more color on what the financial impact will be in the fallout of tenants early next year and if there is any -- if there is a way to categorize the type of tenant? I'm sorry the last question is to categorize what? The type of tenant.
Yes yes.
Yes the things that we're looking at we don't have any certainty on today.
These are leases mostly that we're negotiating.
And there's probably going to be several hundred thousand dollars through 2014 that will be as a result of those fallouts.
One of them is a supermarket.
And one of them -- we're probably definitely certain that Office Depot is going to close in a specific shopping center.
Again we think we'll replace these tenants.
But I think it will take a little bit of time and there will be some negative impact on that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last question.
I'm not sure if you addressed in your opening remarks but with regard to your 2014 FFO guidance what is embedded in terms of what you're going to do on capital deployment net? We really haven't provided guidance.
We have an Investor Day on December 10 in New York and we'll provide full details for all of our 2014 guidance there.
But I know that there was -- in some of the pre-call notes there was a lot of question or issues around our 2014 guidance.
I think most of that confusion or question is around the dilution from the distribution program.
We strongly feel that this is a great time to sell assets and complete the portfolio recycling efforts that we've articulated now for a couple of years.
This strategy I will acknowledge does result in some short-term pain and a slower FFO growth.
But we are confident that over the long term we will improve NAV for our shareholders.
Let me -- I think if you look at 2014 -- and remember in 2013 we're coming off -- as Johnny mentioned in his prepared remarks we're coming off a very strong second half of this year.
So you'll have the full year effect of a very strong disposition program that rolls into next year.
And then in '14 if you just -- one just assumes another $250 million of disposition that in and of itself is significant.
I mean just to quickly run through some numbers if you took $250 million and you used a spread which if I use our 9-month actual on dispositions that Johnny talked about at 7.75 and our cost of our revolver today is about 1.5 so that's about 625 basis points spread.
And if one assumes that we do that ratably through the year so it's about half the money half the time on $250 million program so 625 basis points on $125 million is $0.06 to $0.07 a share.
So that just gives you kind of the magnitude if you will for what that dilution looks like.
Also on '14 as Johnny mentioned we have a little bit of decisions to make on leases as we lease up throughout '14.
And again there may be some short-term loss in NOI but clearly we see that as long term.
So I mean bottom line there's lots of moving pieces but I did want to go ahead and give that color on '14 guidance.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Just to clarify maybe I can ask this in a different way.
In 2013 you're expected to be a net seller by about $80 million.
In 2014 guidance is there activity embedded in that guidance or is that a -- is that based upon a static portfolio? As we try to articulate in the call we expect that 2014 will be capital neutral from a balance sheet perspective.
So it will still be dilutive from the standpoint that we'll be selling assets at higher cap rates than what we are buying.
We also anticipate investing a little bit in new development which obviously will not produce NOI initially.
So while it's capital-neutral from a balance sheet it is dilutive to earnings.
As mentioned we'll give precise guidance in New York but Steve took you through the math just assuming $250 million and it's $0.06 to $0.07 per share.
Our next question comes from Michael Bilerman from Citi.
Research Division</strong> I recognize that you're not going to pay down the line of $250 million because you're going to buy some assets so that would be probably max dilution that you would see.
And I think perhaps I recognize it's capital-neutral.
But at least the size of potential dispositions I mean how much left of the portfolio do you sort of view in this whole non-core dispositions? Is it -- do we have $1 billion left? Is it $500 million? Or are we at the tail end of the last $250 million? And I think that's what we're trying to get our arms around as you may be capital-neutral next year but is that capital-neutral $500 million or is it capital-neutral $250 million? We'll get more into it in New York Michael.
But it's much more in the neighborhood of the $250 million than it is either in the numbers that you mentioned.
Research Division</strong> And do you feel then that you're at the end...
We also see -- we also obviously see capital pruning as an ongoing part of our strategy so as we are selling things that are just at the bottom we also see as you get into '15 '16 the spread narrowing.
As I mentioned in my remarks -- the spread narrowing between what we're buying and what we are selling.
As I mentioned in my remarks acquisitions are very difficult to find good quality things.
And that's where I think we have clarity that we will achieve our disposition goals pretty easily.
The acquisition is a much tougher thing.
So yes you're right we do expect to be capital-neutral.
We do hope to be investing in acquisitions so it wouldn't be the full magnitude of just paying down the revolver.
But we're just trying to put it in context of how much it is.
And again we feel more comfortable on the disposition side acquisitions for a good quality property are very very competitive.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then as we think about what happened in the fourth quarter you have $110 million of sales that are expected and the newer property $86 million and that's about it.
What were the cap rates on the fourth quarter transaction activity? So as we are thinking about 2014 that obviously plays a part as well.
Hey Michael.
This is Johnny.
The cap rate on the fourth quarter stuff if it does close and we do anticipate that it will will be somewhere around 7.5.
And the Mueller property that we bought somewhere around in the low 6s.
Our next question comes from Jonathan Pong from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question with this pretty aggressive disposition initiative and still competitive marketplace for acquisitions how are you guys thinking about the 150 million of series of preferreds that you still got out there? Is that a low-hanging fruit that you can take down? This is Drew.
It's something that we're certainly thinking about.
We don't have any plans and not want to make any announcements this morning.
But it is something that's out there that and as I said before we'll see how it goes in terms of acquisitions dispositions new development opportunity.
So we are certainly aware of it.
And it's something we're thinking about but not anything we're planning immediately at this time.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just a little bit more on the acquisition environment.
You've now done 2 of what I would say as more power center-like acquisitions between Mueller and independents where pricing is probably a little bit more attractive even on a risk-adjusted basis relative to grocery-anchored centers.
Would you agree with that thesis? And then maybe when you think about those 2 subclasses of shopping centers going forward how might each of those components grow within the portfolio? Jonathan we're focused primarily on getting quality real estate.
We're looking at the income level the education level the density.
We want to have urban assets for the most part and we would rather have a supermarket component in the shopping centers.
It is not a requirement.
So we're looking at it more from a real estate perspective than anything.
I think there probably is somewhat of a discount for power center now that's relative to a shopping center that may otherwise have a supermarket component.
But kind of hard to compare one on one side of the town the other on another.
Going forward I don't think that we're going to be isolated to one or the other.
And I would think both of those types of categories would expand in the portfolio but we're not targeting everything that we have.
Today about 75% of the ABR of the company is in shopping centers that have a supermarket component.
I think we'd like to keep it in that range but certainly don't have a requirement to that.
Also I might add independents of course has a supermarket Mueller has a supermarket right next to it.
So in our minds we get the benefit of all the traffic in both those properties.
Our next question comes from Wes Golladay from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> With the continued improvement on the shop and anchor front how far off are the economics for development versus where they were say at the start of the year? And I think you mentioned land being one of the headwinds for new development.
I was wondering if you had any developments you can do from your existing land banks? We'll again get into that and some specific examples in New York.
But yes we are and will continue to make progress on some small phases out of the land bank.
It's hard to forecast the exact differences but in the quality locations that we're looking at with dense population it's still very challenging.
One can go out in the suburban fringe and conceptually do it sometimes.
And one can certainly go rural and do it.
But that's not what we're focused on.
We're focused on good quality locations and that's where it's really challenging.
In Texas in a lot of places the apartment guys the multifamily guys can really bid up the prices beyond what conventional shopping centers can pay.
So we see it coming back.
We got a very good platform.
We're monitoring it.
But I think it will be a while before it's material volume.
We are making some progress.
And we'll get into this more in New York.
And we'll make progress next year on the land held.
Our next question comes from Brandon Cheatham from SunTrust Robinson.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just real quick.
Again on the acquisitions and dispositions for next year can we anticipate that spreads between those cap rates should remain about what we've seen this year? Is that your anticipation as well? I think that's probably a pretty good assumption.
Our vision is is that cap rates are pretty close to the same over the next couple of months and even the next year or so.
So I don't really see much change in that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on proceeds from dispositions you mentioned some of that falling through to development.
Do you have any idea kind of what percentage we could assume going forward? This is Drew.
No as I said it really depends upon the opportunity.
And I don't see a tremendous amount of investments in new development in the near term because I don't see the opportunities there.
When it -- we really look at it separately in terms of if we're successful in dispositions great.
And we think we can be.
But we'll still be disciplined about acquisition and development opportunities.
And that's where the earlier question in terms of the preferred coming on the table or things that we'll look at as we get closer to it.
So no I can't really give you a specific number.
We'll look at opportunities and do what we think is the best long-term thing to create shareholder value.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the Mueller acquisition you guys moved pretty quick there.
Is that just based on opportunity came up and you want to get ahead of it? Brandon Johnny.
I don't know if you know this but Drew and I both went to the University of Texas so we're very familiar with it.
But no not really.
We had actually looked at this asset about 1.5 years ago.
And when it came up again we had already done a lot of research on it and we were able to move very quickly.
It was somewhere around 36 days from the day that we shook their hand to that time that we closed on the property and that included the assumption of a life company loan.
So pretty good advertisement for us I think.
Our next question comes from Jim Sullivan from Cowen Group.
LLC Research Division</strong> Johnny in your prepared comments you talked a little bit about the upside you see in the coming quarters from narrowing that spread between the leased and commenced occupancy.
And I'm curious given how the portfolio is changed with the mix of sales and acquisitions and given where occupancy is heading I wonder if you can talk a little bit about pricing and rental spreads.
And I'm curious given the -- in short will spreads continue to widen? But as part of that I'm curious also what the terms of this lease is? To what extent are you getting in your new leases cash bumps if you can maybe give us a percentage of the leases that have the cash bumps? And kind of a related question whether you're getting cash bumps from anchors to a greater extent than you were before.
And then also a related question to what extent if any are TI dollars going up or going down as these -- as occupancy rates rise? Okay.
I think there's a lot of questions there.
If I missed one I hope you'll come back to me.
Number one in terms of the spread in occupancy between commenced and signed I think that we're in areas and markets that have more significant barriers to entry.
And that includes some zoning and having to go get approval for construction and even tenant uses.
So it is taking us longer from beginning to end to be able to get a lease from signed to actually occupied.
Retailers today national retailers specifically are all focused on some pretty specific windows for opening and I think that kind of slows us down a little bit also.
The tenant mix from about 60% national and regional tenants to now we're 77% I think probably it's harder to get folks open.
And that's why we think to settle in somewhere between 175 basis points and 200 basis points is probably probably right.
In terms of tenant finished dollars we -- I don't really see that it's been significantly more or less.
It feels like about the same and when we look at the deals it's pretty close.
In terms of the bumps I would tell you that we're getting some sort of lease bumps from most of the retailers.
So I'd say more than -- certainly in the 70 percent-ish range.
National retailers junior anchors you usually can get a bump in only 5 years.
On a local tenant I can get a bump every year.
So somewhere between that in the national food stores you can get a -- I'm sorry the restaurants you can generally get a little bit of bump in every 3 years or so.
When you look at the supermarkets not many of them are doing a lot of leases these days.
The niche groceries is really where the opportunity is and that's where the expansion is today.
And they're pretty resistant to bumps but we have been able to get some bumps from those guys on some sort of 5-year terms.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I'm just curious.
In terms of those anchors do you push for or try to get annual bumps? Or is that just a nonstarter with most of those tenants? I would tell you we're -- today it's different than it was yesterday or it was a year ago.
And that is we are being tougher on all of the renewals that we have.
And we're looking and making decisions and trying to decide and make a choice whether or not we want to extend this tenant or not and whether or not they pay a rent bump is a big part of that.
So we are negotiating hard for rent bumps on every negotiation.
Some of them we are successful and some are not.
Some of the larger tenants Kroger et cetera is much much more difficult.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then a final question for me.
You mentioned restaurants as a tenant category and I'm very curious philosophically and Drew if you want to chime in on this please do.
But over time restaurants as a category have been kind of fickle category.
I think you've had a pretty high level of failure with the -- with those formats.
And I'm curious if you have kind of a hard cap on the TI dollars per foot you'll provide to a restaurant tenant.
I wouldn't say we have a hard cap but I would say it's something that we're very sensitive to.
Vast majority of the "restaurants" that we have are a much more into basic goods and services the SUBWAY sandwich shops et cetera.
So we're pretty particular when it comes to the more white-tablecloth restaurants but there really aren't that many of those in the portfolio.
Yes and I wanted to add something too.
When we look at restaurants this is part of a more significant lifestyle change I think that we see today versus 10 years ago.
So I think there probably is more place for fast food restaurants.
People are all busy they're running.
And we certainly have been very successful over the last several years.
Yes you have in addition to Subway which I mentioned the Paneras the Chipotles the Pei Weis the Pandas that we've had good success with.
They bring a lot of traffic and they've been pretty financially successful.
The next question comes from Tammy Fique from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the property you bought in Austin maybe what the upside potential is of that asset and on the IRR on which you underwrote it.
Yes.
Tammy this is Johnny.
The trade area is very very tight.
If you look at that trade area between the river and 290 which is almost about 6 miles there really is no developable land for a retail property.
And as we renew tenants we feel like we should be able to get good increases in them.
We really don't have much downside.
The Home Depot that is there has good rent bumps in it.
So we feel really good about the growth that we have had there for that property.
In terms of IRRs that's not something we talked a lot about.
Again cap rate-wise we're probably looking in the low 6s and probably around at 3% NOI growth on the property over a 10-year period.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I guess just sort of turning back to NOI growth maybe for 2014 which I know you haven't really provided guidance for that.
But as we are [indiscernible] thinking for our estimates for 2014 you have a gap between signed and leased that is wider today versus where it was a year ago.
It's -- and you have 8% implied rent spreads on your expirations relative to where you've been finding rents recently.
Tenant reimbursements are up expenses aren't seem to be well controlled at this point.
You did talk a little bit about fallout that could be a modest drag looks about 10 basis points.
And I guess -- so I guess just as we think about NOI growth next year is there any reason to think that it should be well below where the 3.5% to 4% that you offer for this year for guidance? Yes I think it -- a lot of it depends on the choices that we make as it relates to some of the tenants that we are negotiating with today.
I don't think that anybody can expect that the elevated Same Property NOI that we've seen for the last 7 quarters is sustainable as we get toward full occupancy.
And I think a number that we've talked about historically is somewhere around 2.75 to 3.25 for a sustainable long-term Same Property NOI number.
And I think that's probably a number that you guys could use.
I am not giving guidance in that number.
But when we look at something that's kind of sustainable I think that's where we will be.
I think at the end of the day our occupancy will rise slightly but certainly not at the pace that it has in the last 2 years.
Our next question comes from Jay Carlington from Green Street Advisors.
So just looking -- it looks like you bought out one of your investment interest.
And I'm guessing that's Bouwinvest but I'm not sure.
So just wondering what was the rationale there and can you give a little color on what type of building that was? This is Steve.
That was not Bouwinvest.
That day where -- we have now I guess one deal with them and looking at 1 or 2 others.
But that was one of the Miller deals which was our partner in Denver.
We actually settled with them on several issues.
We traded some interest in some JVs.
And bottom line we wound up with a -- it's a single tenant lease to the state of Utah that we will turn around and put on the market and already quite frankly on the market to sell.
So it was not anything strategic that we want long term but it was really rolling out of 3 individual properties with that partner.
Okay great.
And then maybe just on same-store NOI you had good expense control this quarter.
And I'm just wondering is there a certain level of NOI that you can generate that will generally translate into maybe operating leverage? Or are there just too many moving pieces to kind of ballpark that? In our business the expense side is pretty much a function of -- or is better tied to inflation from some of our suppliers our vendors that maintain our parking lots and so forth.
So generally in a noninflationary environment there is a little bit more margin there than when you see higher inflation.
So I would tell you in some ways yes as long as we're in a low inflationary environment but not totally if that makes sense.
The next question comes from Mike Mueller from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Drew you were talking about I think the term you used was constantly pruning capital.
I'm assuming it just meant consistently selling assets over time.
I mean how do you think about that? Do you think about in any given year we're going to sell the bottom x percent? Do you think of it as a pool that's big enough where it's going to take years to get through? And then when you think about recycling capital I mean do you anticipate if you're selling $1 you're reinvesting $1.
Or do think you'll be a net acquirer over time? We'll get into this in a lot more detail in New York.
But basically as we've said we do think that next year is a pretty big year on the disposition front and we hope it is on the acquisition front but then we'll see.
And then going forward we do look at a continually analyzing and Johnny will go through some of the aspects in New York of the model that we use to rank and have been using for years to rank the portfolio.
We do look at the bottom of that.
And I would say depending upon the specific year and how we see market conditions maybe you're looking to something like 3% of the portfolio on a run-rate basis way out into the future.
Our next question comes from Chris Lucas from Capital One Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just getting a sense Johnny maybe as to how you think about the disposition composition for next year.
In other words I think the real question a lot of us are trying to figure out is what's -- where are you at this point in terms of what was laid out originally in terms of the strategic plan of dispositions? And what is part of your sort of the normal part of the cycle of just calling assets that don't fit whatever profile you want to give it that would be part of sort of that regular recurring calling? So any sense as to whether you're at a 100% of sort of that strategic stuff you're trying to get rid of? Or there's some portion that is now coming in that is probably part of the more normalized cycle of dispositions? This is Drew.
I think it's impossible to put a specific number on it.
But I think some of the reason why the number is bigger the cap rate is better is that we're getting in to if you will some of both that in terms of the non-core we're just finding what we think are some good opportunities to sell some things.
And we think that makes sense given long-term interest rates probably moving up et cetera et cetera a whole lot of factors.
So again we'll go through the detail of the methodology that we use.
But I would say it's a bit of a blend but it's really hard to put a specific number on it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Steve just how much of the portfolio was in the same store at this point? Well actually on Page 26 of the supplemental which is a new disclosure I mean you can see that there -- for those that don't have it we -- our NOI from same store is $88 million which represents about 90%.
So I mean you can -- that additional disclosure can get you there.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from Adam Joseph from West Main Partners.
Two questions if I could please.
It seems as though the rental rate increases especially let's say 3 of the last 4 quarters are trending in the right direction.
With the guidance that you put out for '14 can we assume that this is a run rate that you're going to expect moving forward? Adam this is Johnny.
I think that's a pretty good assumption.
I think we are very very focused.
And I think tactically we have shifted toward pushing rents stronger.
And I think that's probably an expectation that I have and that you guys should expect also.
Okay.
And my second question please.
There seems to be a bit of the mini-rebirth happening with the growth in the master planned community segment.
Based on what you guys have done in Austin where do you see yourselves moving forward and what role will you be playing in this segment? Can you give us some details as far as do you guys view this as a real potential growth area that you want to be involved in? Or are these just pockets that we're seeing? I think -- this is Drew.
I think it's something that we have been involved in for years going back to the foundations of the company in 20 and 30 years ago that we've been involved in different master planned communities all over Houston and elsewhere.
We have great relationships with a number of homebuilders and other folks who do master planned community.
That said there's a lot of other people out there in a very competitive world.
So it's something that we will look at and evaluate but we are also looking at more urban densely populated things.
And there's a bit of a seismic shift going on in terms of what the younger folks want in terms of how much suburban new growth there is.
So you have to factor that all in.
So I think development will continue to grow.
We certainly look at master planned communities.
But I wouldn't say that I expect it to be a humongous investment in 2014 but we do pay attention to it over time.
Thank you.
At this moment I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Drew Alexander for any final remarks.
We appreciate everybody's attention.
We hope to see all of you and many more folks in New York on December 10.
It will be a wonderful presentation hope you can make it.
And we appreciate your attention in Weingarten and wish you all a great day.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
We thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Weingarten Realty Fourth Quarter 2013 Conference.
My name is Brandon and I'll be the operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
And I will now turn it over to Ms.
Michelle Wiggs.
Michelle you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter 2013 conference call.
Joining me today is Drew Alexander President and CEO; Stanford Alexander Chairman; Johnny Hendrix Executive Vice President and COO; Steve Richter Executive Vice President and CFO; and Joe Shafer Senior Vice President and CAO.
As a reminder certain statements made during the course of this call are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
More information about these factors is contained in the company's SEC filings.
Also during this conference call management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as funds from operations or FFO both recurring and reported which we believe help analysts and investors to better understand Weingarten's operating results.
Reconciliation to these non-GAAP financial measures is available in our supplemental information package located under the Investor Relations tab of our website.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Drew Alexander.
Thank you Michelle and thanks to all of you for joining us and a special thanks to all who came to our Investor Day in New York in December.
We are very pleased to report another great quarter a fitting end to a great year.
Operations remain extremely strong with a nice increase in occupancy and very strong Same Property NOI for the fourth quarter and the year.
As we discussed at Investor Day we've made tremendous progress in transforming our portfolio and our balance sheet and we continued this process with both acquisitions and dispositions in the fourth quarter.
Also as discussed in our January 8 press release detailing all of our fourth quarter transaction activity we completed 3 transactions with joint venture partners closed on the sale of an additional property subsequent to year end and had another property sale pending which has also closed.
Looking ahead to 2014 we will continue to aggressively pursue our transformation goals.
The acquisitions market remains highly competitive so finding significant high-quality acquisitions which make economic sense will be challenging but we will continue to diligently search for those opportunities.
Our disposition program has benefited from the competitive market conditions and we are confident that we will continue to execute our disposition program in 2014.
As to new development we continue to make progress on our Hilltop development in DC with Wegmans scheduled to open in the first half of 2015.
We are 88% leased and in good shape to achieve our pro forma returns of over 8%.
Wake Forest Crossing in Raleigh is a pipeline deal which we reviewed in New York.
It's about a $15 million project is progressing nicely and we should buy the land within in the next 45 days.
In Washington D.C.
together with our development partners we continue to work through the Walter Reed development.
While we're in the preliminary planning and the timing is certainty multiyear the retail part of this project which WRI is doing will be approximately 250 000 square feet and represents an investment of $80 million to $100 million.
The development market remains very tough with high land prices and the tenants' unwillingness to pay rents that would be required for most deals to make sense.
Nevertheless as we noted in New York we continue to look at a variety of opportunities and have seen a modest increase in our pipeline.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve to discuss our financial results.
Thanks Drew.
We ended a great year with a strong fourth quarter.
Recurring FFO was $0.48 per diluted share for the quarter up from $0.47 in the fourth quarter last year.
FFO for the fourth quarter benefited from improved occupancy which increased by 120 basis points to 94.8% from the same quarter of the prior year.
Recurring FFO also benefited from the redemption of 75 million of our preferred D shares in the first quarter of 2013 and 200 million of our preferred F shares late in the second quarter as well as the ongoing refinancing of our normal debt maturities.
Offsetting these increases was a dilutive effect of our disposition program in 2012 and 2013 which cost us over $0.17 per share of FFO.
Reported FFO for the fourth quarter decreased to $0.42 per share from $0.46 per share in 2012.
The 2013 results were reduced by a noncash deferred tax expense of $0.06 per share related to the gain on the purchase of our partners' interest in an unconsolidated joint venture in California.
Turning to the balance sheet we completed a successful $250 million offering of 4.45% 10-year bonds in October of last year.
As we showed you in December at our Investor Day this transaction effectively prefunded the majority of our January 2014 debt maturities which totaled $285 million.
With the repayment of the $285 million in January we now have less than $100 million maturing in the remainder of 2014.
With only $115 million currently outstanding under our $500 million revolving credit facility we have plenty of liquidity to handle the remaining maturities.
We also expect to exercise our option to call $100 million of 8.1% bonds that would otherwise mature in 2019.
This option window opens later this year in September.
With the elimination of the 3 joint venture relationships mentioned earlier we have further simplified our balance sheet.
As a result of these transactions over $70 million of loans from WRI to JVs were repaid leaving only $13.3 million outstanding in loans to joint ventures.
Because some of the joint ventures were consolidated and some were unconsolidated the impact of these transactions on other line items on the balance sheet is not easy to follow.
If anyone wants further details on these transactions just give us a call and we'd be happy to go through it.
At quarter end the company's net debt-to-EBITDA was 6.3x and net debt plus preferred to EBITDA which many of us agree is a more important measure of leverage was a strong 6.78x.
Debt to total market cap at 12/31 was only 39.4% in spite of the redemption of the preferred shares and the downward pressure of restock prices around year end.
With the pay down of the January 2014 maturities along with the recent improvement in our share price this metric has improved even more.
We remain committed to maintaining leverage below the 40% level.
So things are very good on the financial front.
Just a quick note on guidance.
We affirmed the detailed guidance we provided at Investor Day with one update.
For dispositions we are adding the 2 properties that we sold shortly after year end that were projected to close in late 2013.
So this increases our disposition guidance in 2014 by about $50 million.
Additionally our original guidance did not anticipate the exercise of the purchase option on the Village Arcade which we expect to occur in the latter part of the year.
With these updates our disposition guidance changes from a range of $200 million to $300 million to a range of $300 million to $400 million.
This does not change our FFO guidance as the sale of the 2 properties were already built into our guidance and the Village Arcade sale will not materially impact '14's FFO as it is expected to close in the latter part of the year.
All of these details of our guidance is included on Page 9 of our supplemental package.
Johnny? Thanks Steve.
Good morning to everyone on the call.
Fourth quarter capped off another great year highlighting our best-in-class operating platform and our fantastic properties.
Same Property NOI finished the year at 4.2% for the second straight year.
Leasing velocity remains steady even as occupancy climbed to 94.8%.
Rent growth on new leases was 13.1% for the fourth quarter and 12.7% for the year.
We continue to execute our transformative capital recycling program disposing of $278 million of property in 2013 including 24 non-core shopping centers and acquiring $175 million of great property including Mueller Regional Center in Austin an independent shopping center in Laredo.
As we highlighted in our New York Investor Day 75% of the company's rent comes from shopping centers with a supermarket and those supermarkets are dominated by national and very productive regional chains.
Currently our supermarkets average $535 per square foot.
This translates into an average of 65 000 customer transactions every month in each of our properties with a grocery store.
These supermarkets along with 27 Target stores and over 100 discount clothing stores like Ross TJX and Stein Mart continue to attract shop retailers and service tenants who want to be close to these high-traffic generators.
Our centers are located in growing metropolitan markets that have seen very little new competitive product coming online.
We're excited about the transformation of the company over the last few years and we're looking forward to continued improvement ahead.
The leasing trends we discussed last quarter carried through the end of the year.
We leased fewer spaces for about the same total square footage at a higher annual rent than last year.
For the year the 519 new leases represented almost $29 million in annual revenue over 10% higher rent than a year ago.
The mix of tenants remained similar all year: national retailers like Carter's Sally Beauty LA Fitness 5 Below and Chipotle; also franchise concepts like SUBWAY Dunkin' Donuts and Plato's Closet.
We also continue to see strong demand from medical and other service tenants.
Niche supermarkets and discount clothing are still anxious to lease space and I think will continue to grow.
We expect 2014 leasing volume at tenant mix to be similar to last year.
We announced in New York that we had signed a new lease with LA Fitness which will kick off our redevelopment of Brookwood Shopping Center in Atlanta.
As part of this redevelopment we're demolishing a former Home Depot and are constructing a couple of pad buildings along with the new LA Fitness.
We'll invest close to $10 million with an estimated return of 13% with most of that revenue online by mid-2015.
Like our peers we're looking to add growth through redevelopment and have identified 32 shopping centers where we're requiring redevelopment provisions in new leases and renewals providing flexibility we'll need in the future.
Over the last several years we've averaged investing about $25 million a year and we expect to continue at about that same pace.
We ended the year with 94.8% occupancy spaces over 10 000 square feet or 98.5% leased a pickup of 140 basis points from a year ago.
Shop space stands at 89% leased up from 88.2% last year.
We think that occupancy will remain in the 94% to 95% range for the balance of 2014 as we re-merchandise a few boxes throughout the year.
It's important to note that the spread between commenced versus signed occupancy has been reduced to 210 basis points.
This was 260 basis points at the end of the third quarter.
We commenced over 100 000 square feet in the quarter and also sold a couple of shopping centers that had around 55 000 square feet where rent had not yet commenced.
This spread should grow slightly as we work through some of the re-merchandising we've talked about.
Overall fallout for 2013 was about the same as a year ago at $17.6 million in annualized rent.
That's well below the $25 million we averaged from 2008 to 2011.
So with leasing stable fallout flat and commenced occupancy rising we naturally had another good quarter increasing Same Property NOI.
The increase of 3% for the quarter was mostly driven by increases in rent.
Two consecutive years of increasing Same Property NOI by 4.2% is outstanding and I want to thank all of our associates who have worked so hard to achieve this milestone.
Overall we see 2014 as a period of stabilized operations where growth in Same Property NOI will be accomplished by maintaining occupancy and pushing rents.
We continue to gain pricing leverage on new leases and renewals as occupancy in our markets continues to tighten and very little new space comes online.
So we think that 2.5% to 3.5% Same Property NOI we've used in our guidance is reasonable assuming an improving economy throughout 2014.
We expect to continue to improve rent growth.
We produced an increase in new leases for the fourth quarter of just over 13% and during the year we had an increase of 12.7%.
This is very good progress from a year ago.
You can see by our guidance of overall increases between 8% and 15% we believe we can sustain these improvements.
Turning to our capital recycling we're very pleased we finished the year strong.
During 2013 we sold 24 non-core shopping centers 3 industrial properties and 6 vacant parcels as part of the $278 million in overall dispositions.
The income-producing properties sold at an average cap rate of 7.7% which is slightly better than we had originally anticipated.
Subsequent to the end of the quarter we sold 2 Louisiana shopping centers for $55 million.
We're still seeing good demand for much of our non-core product and we expect to continue selling at cap rates between 7.5% and 8.25% for 2014.
As we highlighted in an earlier press release we received notice from Rice University that they are exercising a right to buy out our ground lease at the Village Arcade Shopping Center.
This was part of our agreement with them back in the early '90s when we developed the project.
We still have to work out the details of price but it'll be somewhere between $55 million and $60 million.
Some have asked about other ground leases and we've realized as a sector our disclosure in this area was less than ideal.
Starting this quarter we've added disclosure listing all our ground leases and the dates we lose control of the properties.
This can be found on Page 40 of the supplemental.
I want to highlight to you that we do have one other ground lease that has a purchase option similar to the Village Arcade and that is the I-10 Blalock center in Houston.
This is a small center annual base rent of less than $1.5 million.
Our lease expires in 2039 but we expect to receive notice this year that the landlord is exercising an option to buy out our remaining term.
We don't have any additional ground leases where we lose control prior to the expiration of all our options.
On the acquisitions front we're excited about the shopping centers we bought in 2013: Independence Mueller Sea Ranch and Queen Anne Marketplace great centers all featuring best-in-class supermarkets discount clothing stores along with a strong Home Depot and Bed Bath &amp; Beyond.
We continue to improve the overall quality of the portfolio.
Today the market for core product is very tight.
Good quality shopping centers continue to trade in the 5.75% to 6.25% range.
Coastal markets slightly less.
We will remain disciplined looking for properties that can average 3% or more NOI growth.
In summary 2013 was another great year for Weingarten.
We generated outstanding operating metrics 4.2% Same Property NOI growth 94.8% occupancy and solid leasing.
We continue to improve the quality of the portfolio buying great assets and selling non-core properties.
And we'll continue to compete at the top of our peer group in operating metrics.
Drew? Thanks Johnny.
We're very proud of our accomplishments in 2013 with occupancy of almost 95% and our second consecutive year of Same Property NOI growth in access of 4% the transformation of our portfolio is evident.
With an excellent debt maturity schedule and greatly reduced leverage on the balance sheet we are very well positioned for the future.
FFO growth in 2014 will be tempered as we continue significant sales of non-core properties and basically complete our transformation.
The quality of our portfolio will further improve also helped by several re-merchandisings further ensuring strong operating metrics going forward.
Our experienced growth teams are focused on our target markets.
And while the growth environment is challenging we remain confident we will find opportunities to add quality properties to the portfolio and grow NAV and FFO.
Great people great properties and a great platform equals great results.
I thank all of you for joining the call today and for your continued interest in Weingarten.
Operator we'd now be happy to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And from Citi we have Christy McElroy online.
This is Katie McConnell [ph] on for Christy.
Could you disclose the cap rates related to the JV transactions you completed in Q4 and January? And do you expect to complete any additional JV buy-ins in 2014? Yes Katie this is Johnny.
The cap rates on the various partnerships were different for the various shopping centers.
So the Hines transactions for example the range was probably 6.5% to 7.5%.
And then a lot of it depends on how you would look at the Jess Ranch project.
But generally it was in the 6.5% 7% range.
From Green Street Advisors we have Jay Carlington online.
Just on the Village Arcade sale there you mentioned the proceeds there.
Any visibility on what that cap rate is? Is that following your disposition range or how does that shake out? And then also on the Blalock lease the details on that what kind of notice did they have to give you guys and was that originally contemplated in guidance? Jay on the Village Arcade the cap rate is around 9% so clearly it's not within the range of dispositions that we had anticipated and certainly not for the quality of the project.
Keep in mind that we had 27 years left on that lease and at that time we would have received 0.
As to Blalock we have received notice yet.
We try to give you guys a little bit of a heads-up on that.
It would be a 1-year notice if we received it and it would be -- at some point in the next several months we would anticipate it.
They've told us we would get that.
And that would be generally in the 10% range.
And again that lease would've otherwise expired in 2039.
When you look at the net present value of the income stream at Blalock you're $1.5 million difference between that and what we'll get in proceeds from that.
So did you say they had to give you a 1-year notice and this is coming up in March? The time that they can give me notice is coming up in March.
We anticipate we will -- at that time we anticipate we'll receive 1 year's notice at Blalock.
Okay got it.
And then on the occupancy front I think you've suggested that it was going to be a little bit choppy this year with maybe some of the office supply guys.
So is there any update there how are you thinking about that this year? Yes I think it's going to be pretty much what we had thought.
We had a couple of the office supply leases renew.
We thought there would be a little more negotiation I think with the transition.
They went ahead and renewed a few leases just because they weren't really set to do anything else.
But generally everything else seems about what we had anticipated so I do think you'll see a little bit of chop in the occupancy after the first quarter but not too much.
From Robert W.
Baird we have Jonathan Pong on the line.
Research Division</strong> On the River Point power center consolidation I just wondered if you guys could share some color as to what the strategic considerations were to taking that asset? Do you plan on keeping that asset? And then do you have any plans to develop on the 16 acres of land I think that you're taking now under your full control? This is Drew.
A lot of different things factored into the strategy.
Steve Richter negotiated I think what was a very fair dissolution to the overall partnership and in part of that we settled a bunch of things that made sense to us in including that in the trade we worked out they took over some of the assets in Utah which is a market that we don't intend to grow in.
So we think the River Oak (sic) [Point] project in Sheridan is a very good location.
It's a Target/Costco-anchored center.
We are under construction with some new anchor space there so we'll continue to develop it.
It's right in the heart of Denver and we think it's -- while it's been through some tough times we think it's very well positioned now to improve.
Research Division</strong> I guess I was thinking about further dissolutions.
Can you guys talk maybe a little bit about future asset swaps some of what you've done recently with Hines and whether or not you have anything else in the pipeline? Is that how should we be thinking about future simplification of the ownership structure? We talked about this some in New York.
And I'm always a little hesitant because I hear some of my peers say things that sound like they're going to take advantage of their partners.
And we try to balance our fiduciary responsibilities to our partners and to the shareholders.
So when it lines up like it did in the case of Hines and we can work out something that's mutually beneficial which Johnny in that case worked out a swap that made sense to both sides we will certainly do that.
So we have a lot of good partners and it's really just hard to forecast which will continue for a while and which there might be some dissolution of.
But if we can do something that makes sense to both sides including the Weingarten we'll certainly look for those opportunities.
From SunTrust we have Brandon Cheatham on the line.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering could you kind of talk about how tenant demand is in your Texas market versus the rest of your portfolio? Brandon tenant demand in Texas is very very strong.
Occupancy of the Houston portfolio is the highest it's been since I've been with the company for 27 years.
We have incredible strength down in the valley in the properties we have there.
Austin is very strong.
So we're very very positive about what we see in terms of demand.
Interestingly California Florida are both also are very strong.
Occupancies in those markets are close to 96%.
So we're really seeing strength over the entire portfolio.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And have the lease spreads in those markets been pretty similar or are some stronger than the others? It's interesting lease spreads in Texas have probably been the best coming off some very very difficult comp numbers in California.
And when you reduce the population that you're comparing one number can really move the spread pretty significantly on a quarterly or even an annualized basis.
So Texas is clearly the strongest Florida is probably next and California is trailing those.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the leases that are expiring in 2014 can you give us an idea of kind of when these were signed? Was that during the downturn? How much does that have to do with your expectations in increasing rental rates? A lot of the leases we signed in the downturn are now coming up.
Some of those have options some of them don't.
Most of the increases we're seeing today is in spaces that are vacant and that's -- I don't think that that is really playing into part of the increase in the rental increases.
From Wells Fargo we have Jeff Donnelly online.
LLC Research Division</strong> Johnny I was curious what's the seasonal tenant fallout looking like for Q1 2014? Because last year I think we saw unseasonally low move-outs.
Do you think that's going to repeat this year? Or is it going to maybe revert to more of an average decline in occupancy from Q4 as we shift into Q1? Jeff I think it's probably going to be close to where it was last year.
It might be a little bit higher but not significantly.
Interestingly what we see is 2 really seasonal periods one is January.
But then after Easter when you look at a lot of the Florida properties and the Arizona properties when some folks go back up to the Northeast go to the off-season there you start to see a little bit of fallout.
So those 2 periods but I don't think it's any more than it's -- than we've expected or than it would otherwise have been.
Like we talked about earlier the boxes might be a little bit more but that's more just the maturity schedule than seasonal.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then last quarter I think you had said you had expected occupancy growth to maybe flatten out a little bit as you take a tougher stance on renewals.
But we didn't really see that I guess happen in Q4 because occupancy ticked up a little bit.
Did you take that tougher stance or did you just not get the pushback you were expecting from tenants? We have taken that tougher stance.
And I think some of what you're seeing is just a lot better demand and a lot more leverage by the landlord.
But I do want to be transparent with you some of the occupancy pickup we had was based on the lease the LA Fitness lease in Atlanta.
So if you look at the -- specifically at the Atlanta market it went up dramatically.
We reduced the denominator by 140 000 square feet in that location and that translated into a 30-basis point pick up on the entire portfolio.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I just want to clarify something in your guidance quickly.
The retail rent increases expected of 8% to 15% is that the blended range for new and renewal? It is yes.
From Cowen Group we have Jim Sullivan on line.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Johnny first in terms of the anchor lease terms given the fairly positive fundamentals in terms of demand that are reflected in the higher occupancy and better pricing are you finding that your negotiating position is enhanced in dealing with anchors and is that paying off in other terms such as better bumps or fewer option terms with anchors? Jim it's interesting we've done a few boxes over the last several quarters.
But frankly I don't know that we've had enough vacancy that we've done enough that I could really give you a trend line.
I can tell you just generally throughout the portfolio we have taken a much tougher stand on noneconomic issues.
For example eliminating or significantly reducing the options that we give reducing the term of the leases so that we're going to be able to turn them over faster.
And so generally I would say yes our negotiating leverage is greatly enhanced.
What we're really seeing is retailers coming in and exercising options because generally we've taken a position that we're not going to negotiate with a tenant while they have an option.
And so we kind of take them to the brink and they've exercised their options.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a second question.
We've heard from some of your peers that this has been something that's been going on for a few years.
But there were a couple of larger retailers who are looking to systematically reduce the size of their boxes.
Are you seeing any of that in your portfolio? And I don't know if you feel comfortable disclosing which retailers are doing that.
I think it's primarily in the electronics and in the office.
A little bit the books but really not much.
We feel very good about the exposure that we have in both of those areas.
And again the experience that we've had recently with those categories coming to us there's no space available that is of good quality and certainly not the quality of the product that we have.
And for the most part those retailers are renewing their leases extending them without reducing space.
It is not economically practical to reduce the size of most of these boxes given the depth and the frontage.
And I think there's probably a realization of that today and I think you hear a lot less about that.
And it's unusual when you get a box of 25 000 or 30 000 square feet that you can divide up in an economically viable way.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final question for me.
There has been a significant amount of value creation with street retail so-called street retail assets in this cycle.
And I'm curious how much interest do you have in this segment? And do you expect to make any investments in the product type? Jim Drew here.
It's something that we would always look at and if the right opportunity came available we might do it but it's not a major focus for us.
I think the major focus for us is supermarket and community centers in the major metropolitan areas and the 12 growth states that we've identified.
So it's something that we've kicked around and maybe but it's not a key area of focus for us.
From JP Morgan we have Michael Mueller online.
Research Division</strong> I guess the guidance for leased occupancy is flattish to slightly down as you talked about pushing rate and kind of holding occupancy but what about the actual commenced occupancy number that I think was 90.28 at 12/31? Do you see that remaining flat as well or moving up a little? I think one of are the things we talked about in New York was repositioning some of the boxes we had re-merchandising those.
So I think you'll see the overall occupancy stay pretty flat but then I think you'll see some expansion in the spread between leased and commenced.
I think we've talked a lot about what is normal in that category and I think traditionally it's for us it's been around 180 to 210.
Since the downturn it's been more just because there's been more product churning.
So I think around 200 is probably a normal number.
I think we'll go up a little bit as we re-merchandise and then kind of squeeze that's spread back down.
Research Division</strong> Okay so if we're looking at that 90.28 and where you ended the year on a same-store basis do you think that's flattish or down a little it seems? 90.48 a year? Research Division</strong> No the 90.28.
You're 90.28 occupied year end? Yes yes.
Research Division</strong> Where do you think you...
I think it will probably be a little bit less but not much.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
I forget do we get 2 questions or 1? You can have as many as you like.
Research Division</strong> There you go.
Can you remind us when we're thinking about 2015 what the pace of disposition should be or should look like relative to what we're seeing this year which is now $300 million to $400 million? Should it be at a comparable level begin to moderate more? This is Drew here.
What we had talked about in New York is that this year basically represents the completion of the transformation.
So in '15 and beyond while there will still be some dispositions it's a lot more moderate.
So somewhere in the neighborhood of 125 to 175 is what we talked about in New York.
The other thing to bear in mind is as we have sold more of the non-core properties is there will be an improvement in the spread of what we're selling in '15 and beyond.
So it should be less diluted after we basically finish the transformation in 2014.
From RBC Capital Markets we have Richard Moore online.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm curious a little bit on the redevelopment side of things.
It seems that there's an enormous amount of demand out there for especially big box space and not a whole lot is going on on the development -- ground-up development side of the world but yet the redevelopment talk that you guys have seems fairly modest.
And I'm wondering if maybe we could see that accelerate or conversely maybe you're thinking ground-up developments start accelerating? Curious what you think.
Rich I think that we've been pretty consistent in terms of the redevelopment.
A it's pretty hard.
Most of our shopping centers are very well leased and so you've got to go through entitlements and retailers 3 or 4 at a time.
We're certainly working through that.
I wonder sometimes if there's some definitional differences between redevelopment that we have and maybe some other folks have.
I don't know.
When we talk about redevelopment we're talking about adding new square footage or tearing down buildings like we're doing at Brookwood Shopping Center.
Generally when we replace a tenant re-merchandise replace a roof fix the parking lot we're just calling that regular operations.
I do not know the definitions that some other folks may use.
We definitely are focused on doing as much redevelopment as we can and I think there's certainly demand.
The rent is at the level that we can do it as long as we can kind of put all the pieces together.
And when boxes are 98% leased there's not a lot of extra space available.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
I got you.
And then thinking too Johnny about the small shop space and you talked a little bit about the alternative-uses sort of concept are you seeing that accelerating? And I mean I know medical has been one the urgent care centers and that kind of thing that the people are talking about but are there other alternative-type uses that might go into a shopping center that you're seeing? And I guess how do you evaluate those for whether you think the tenant themselves is a worthy tenant for you? Right.
I don't see a whole lot of other alternative uses.
I think we're pretty much straight down the middle in terms of the Verizon stores the T-Mobiles the services Great Clips Ultas Allstate.
The medical certainly over the last several years has been pretty huge but really nothing that would compared to that.
We're really focused on making sure the best that we can that all the tenants that we put into this space have good balance sheets have a good opportunity to succeed.
Most of the dentists we've done or doctors and so generally we feel good about that.
Some of the change with the urgent care pretty good balance sheet.
So we feel pretty good about all of that stuff.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you evaluate their cash flow actually in each case? Absolutely.
From Bank of America we have Craig Schmidt on the line.
Research Division</strong> This is Juan Sanabria actually.
I'm with Craig.
Just a couple of questions can you just speak about your 2014 guidance kind of what the differences are between the top and the bottom end of the retail rent growth range you set out of 8% to 15%? I'm sorry Juan.
Can you clarify that for me a little bit? You're looking for some color on the rent growth? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I mean 8% to 15% just seems like a pretty wide range.
What are the big drivers to get you from the top to the bottom end of that range? Yes I can understand that that is a wide range.
One of the things that is always interesting about rent growth is it's probably the most volatile metric that we've experienced.
1 or 2 leases can really move that dramatically one way or the other and especially when you look at it on a quarterly basis.
We I think are recognizing that volatility and just trying to give a range that we feel like we could come inside of.
So I don't -- I think that we'll be within that range and I think we'll be well within it.
So I'm uncertain what could happen that would put me at the bottom unless I lease some space and don't get a lot of rent.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
Just on your grocers just thinking big picture.
What are you seeing from some of the specialties? It seems like they may be beginning to look at some greenfields and some new markets.
Are you getting any concern that they may be beginning to overextend themselves? And then sort of as a second part any sort of third tier groceries within an individual submarket that kind of you're watching with regards to maybe underperforming expectations that you think could be an issue at some point down the track? Drew here.
So I'll take the new development part and maybe Johnny can comment on the existing part and elaborate on what we said in New York.
So as far as new development we are in touch with all of the major grocers conventional niche the discount stores et cetera.
We do a lot of work with Whole Foods and a lot of other good companies.
So we'll continue to stay focused on that in principally the major metropolitan areas in the 12 states.
So we are very selective about how green a field we want to do a development in and I'd say our focus is to stay in new development areas where there's a little more population versus just down on the prairie.
As I mentioned we are seeing the most modest uptick in deals.
It will be a while at best before those result in a lot of capital expenditure.
But it has been observed there is more interest out there.
Johnny? Probably the important piece here is that I think the independent supermarkets generally are under a lot of pressure both margin pressure and volume pressure.
Walmart continues to expand with their neighborhood market and with their superstores.
And in some of the markets we're in it's penetrating some of the core areas that haven't been reached for a while particularly in Houston.
And we've been concerned about this independent supermarket group for a while.
And today they're only 2% of the NOI of the company.
We still see some real strength in specialty guys a 99 Ranch Market a Fiesta and generally those folks have been able to hold their own in the face of this additional competition and I think they'll continue to be able to do that.
From Capital One Securities we have Chris Lucas online.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Steve just a couple of quick questions for you.
What do you think about financing out the Walter Reed development? How are you thinking about that? Is that something that you'll use your line for or will you go specific on a construction loan? Chris this is an interesting question.
And given that Walter Reed is many -- several years out I think before we will commence construction.
I would tell you I've thought about it but there's clearly no direction as of yet.
I think some of it will depend upon what the balance of our opportunities are in investing new capital at the time as to whether or not we'd do that under the line or we obviously could do something a construction loan we could sell some bonds early.
It also will tag in -- or tie into our maturity schedule at the time.
But again with the repositioning of our maturity schedule we're in pretty great shape.
But I don't mean to be evasive but it is -- kind of it depends on when we really begin to spend capital on the project.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The other question I have is I noticed a pretty meaningful sequential and year-over-year drop in both the tenant recovery metric and the operating margin.
Is there something going on here this quarter that's unique or what are we looking at here? I think Chris there is about 3 quarters of that that is kind of onetime expense items and operating expenses in the other category.
And then I think you have the year end just 25% of that is just a year end kind of movement that we always -- true-ups that we have.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So we're down 220 over last year on a year-over-year basis and occupancy is up.
I guess I'm still -- I don't -- I'm having a hard time trueing those up if you will.
Is it just a better true-up this year than a year ago? Or...
Well again if you take out the onetime differences I think we're somewhere around $750 million of onetime stuff.
Then that gets you back down to where I think it's pretty consistent.
From UBS we have Ross Nussbaum online.
Research Division</strong> All my questions were answered except for one housekeeping item.
Steve on the balance sheet inside of your other assets disclosure you've got a line called investments that popped up a little more than $50 million from 3Q to 4Q? What was that? This is Joe Shafer that's actually the investment of the excess cash from the bond issuance in October as well as some investments related to our captive insurance.
It's about $58 million.
And obviously excess cash was used to pay the maturities in January.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I was just making sure you weren't buying say shares of Kimco? Interesting idea Ross but no.
[Operator Instructions] Okay we're showing no further questions at the moment.
Drew I'll turn it back to you for any final remarks.
Thanks Brandon and thanks everybody for your interest in Weingarten.
We really appreciate it.
We'll be around later if there are more questions.
I want to wish everybody a happy Valentine's Day a great weekend.
Stay warm and thanks again for your interest in Weingarten.
And this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Weingarten Realty First Quarter 2014 Conference.
My name is Brandon and I'll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Michelle Wiggs.
Michelle you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter 2014 conference call.
Joining me today is Drew Alexander President and CEO; Stanford Alexander Chairman; Johnny Hendrix Executive Vice President and COO; Steve Richter Executive Vice President and CFO; and Joe Shafer Senior Vice President and CAO.
As a reminder certain statements made during the course of this call are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
More information about these factors is contained in the company's SEC filings.
Also during this conference call management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as funds from operations or FFO both recurring and reported which we believe help analysts and investors to better understand Weingarten's operating results.
Reconciliation to these non-GAAP financial measures is available in our supplemental information package located under the Investor Relations tab of our website.
I would also like to request that callers observe a two question limit during the Q&amp;A portion of our call in order to just give everyone a chance to participate.
If you have additional questions please rejoin the queue.
I will now turn the call over to Drew Alexander.
Thank you Michelle and thanks to all of you for joining us.
We are very pleased to report another good quarter.
Our portfolio transformation contributed to very good same property NOI number driven by a nice year-over-year increase in commenced occupancy.
Our transformation is progressing as planned with a solid quarter of disposition activity.
We'd like to have redeployed some of our disposition proceeds into high quality shopping centers but the acquisition market remains incredibly competitive and we remain resolutely disciplined.
We continue to simplify and provide additional transparency to our balance sheet with the repayment of significant debt maturities and the unwinding of our Hines joint venture in the quarter.
So we again made good progress on our focused strategy of transforming the portfolio improving operations and maintaining a strong balance sheet.
Switching briefly to our new development efforts our hilltop development in D.C.
continues to progress nicely with Wegmans scheduled to open in the first half of 2015.
As we mentioned last quarter we stabilized our Tomball development effective January 1 moving it into our operating portfolio.
Our Wake Forest Crossing deal in Raleigh which is about $15 million project is moving right along and we should buy the land soon.
We continue to work through the preliminary planning at the Walter Reid development with our development partners.
As we pointed out the timing is certainly multi-year and the retail part of this project which WRI is doing will be approximately 250 000 square feet and represent an investment of $80 million to $100 million.
Bigger picture the development market remains very tough with high land prices and the tenant's unwillingness to pay the rents that would be required for most deals to make sense.
However we think we may be seeing an ever so slight thaw.
We certainly are seeing more interest from retailers in talking new development as we prepare for ICSC RECon.
As such we continue to look at a variety of opportunities and have made a modest increase in our pipeline of potential deals.
I will now turn the call over to Steve to discuss our financial results.
Thanks Drew.
I am happy to report that WRI turned in another solid quarter.
Recurring FFO was $0.49 per diluted share for the quarter up from $0.48 in the first quarter last year.
FFO for the quarter benefited from the improved commenced occupancy which increased by 160 basis points from the same quarter of the prior year and the impact of our prior year acquisitions.
Recurring FFO also benefited from the redemption of our preferred D and preferred F shares during the first half of 2013 as well as the favorable impact of our ongoing refinancing of debt maturities.
Offsetting these increases was the dilutive effect of our disposition program in 2013 and 2014 which cost us $0.03 per share in FFO compared to the first quarter of 2013.
Reported FFO for the first quarter decreased to $0.51 per share from $0.53 per share in 2013.
Included in the reported FFO for 2013 was a benefit from the write-off of an above market mortgage intangible from the early pay off of debt of $0.07 per share offset by non-cash redemption costs of preferred shares of $0.02 per share.
Turning to the balance sheet; we reduced our total debt outstanding by over $200 million from year end 2013.
As we communicated last quarter our $250 million bond offering in October effectively pre-funded the majority of our $315 million of our first quarter 2014 debt maturities.
With the repayment of the $315 million we now have less than $50 million maturing in the remainder of 2014.
At quarter end the company's net debt to EBITDA was 5.81 times and net debt plus preferred to EBITDA which many of us agree is a more important measure of leverage was a strong 6.22 times.
With repayment of the first quarter debt maturities a rise in our common share price and the repayment of debt with our first quarter disposition proceeds debt-to-total market cap decreased to 35.2% from 39.4% at year end.
Another transaction which further simplified our balance sheet was the dissolution in January of our consolidated joint venture with the Hines REIT where the company owned a 30% interest in 13 properties.
The transaction was completed through the joint venture's distribution of five properties to WRI and eight properties to Hines.
We will continue to lease and manage the properties owned by Hines.
As to guidance we reaffirm the guidance we provided at year end and all the details are included on page nine of the supplemental.
Its a little too early to adjust our full year guidance on acquisitions but as Drew already mentioned that part of our business remains extremely challenging.
Johnny? Thanks Steve.
Overall we are extremely pleased with the results we continue to produce.
Even in an environment where retail sales have been pretty anemic and the overall economy has been slow to improve our centers anchored primarily by supermarkets and discount clothing stores continue to produce great sales.
At the end of the quarter our supermarkets averaged sales of $554 per square foot.
This volume results in about 70 000 customer visits every month a great benefit to our shop tenants restaurants service tenants and retail stores giving them exposure to the most desirable customers in our markets.
This quarter's 3.3% increase in same property NOI marks our ninth consecutive quarter in excess of 2.8% and is an average of over 4% since January of 2012.
Most of the growth in same property NOI this quarter was a direct result of close to a 3% rise in base rent.
Most of that rent increase came from the commencement of new leases over the last half of 2013 and built in steps from existing tenants.
Signed occupancy was down a little over the last quarter but that's pretty normal following Christmas.
94.5% at still 80 basis points over a year ago and importantly our commenced occupancy remained consistent with last quarter at 92.8%.
Regionally our three largest markets are in great shape.
Occupancy in Texas is 95.2% Florida is 95.3% and California is almost 97%.
During the quarter we leased 102 new spaces for $5.6 million of annual rent.
On the surface this is less than we leased last year by about $1 million in annual rent but virtually all the difference is from box leasing.
We only leased two boxes during the quarter compared to nine a year ago.
We are over 98% leased for spaces over 10 000 square feet today so its natural leasing in this category will slow.
The spaces we leased under 10 000 square feet had annual rent of $5.1 million which was the same as a year ago so it feels like we are on about the same trajectory as last year.
The mix of new leases is about the same as we have seen over the last couple of years mostly national and regional operators with very few local tenants.
Restaurants led by fast casual operators like Chipotle; health and beauty like Sally Beauty and Vitamin Shop; medical like Pacific Dental and discount apparel like Rainbow.
Renewals continue to be a bright spot.
We signed 204 renewals for $13.4 million in annual rent in the first quarter.
As of the quarter end we renewed 71% of our leases expiring in 2014.
Rent growth was slightly below the range we indicated for our guidance but this can be driven by one or two leases.
As [indiscernible] will end the year between 8% and 15%.
Over 80% of the leases we signed this quarter had positive rent growth.
We continue to see this number rise over time so we expect overall improvement through 2014.
The company is closely monitoring the progress of the proposed Cerberus' acquisition of Safeway.
Safeway is our fourth largest tenant occupying 17 locations.
We have six Cerberus locations and the combined company would be our fourth largest tenant with about 2% of our revenue.
We continue to successfully execute our capital recycling program.
We sold three shopping centers and two vacant pads this quarter for $79 million.
These centers sold for an average cap rate of 7.2%.
We currently have $107 million under contract or letter of intent and we are marketing an additional $200 million of non-core assets.
We are seeing good demand for these assets.
The acquisition side of the recycling equation has been very competitive.
While we didn't acquire any property in the first quarter we currently have under contract or letter of intent $42 million of pro rata investment and we have several offers pending.
The really good assets we want are in great demand and we have seen cap rates fall on core assets about 25 basis points over the last six months to a range of 5% to 6%.
Importantly we are going to stay disciplined maintaining our underwriting standards and only buying high quality assets that are accretive to our shareholders.
We continue to focus on finding value in our existing portfolio through redevelopments.
We define our redevelopment as a location where we are adding square footage either through new construction or expansion of an existing space.
We have added new disclosure on Page 14 of the supplemental to show locations where we have active redevelopment projects.
We are currently investing $40 million on nine projects and expect to begin work on another 14 projects spending some $40 million over the next year or so.
Returns vary but generally we are expecting an average of around 12%.
That's a great return as the risk associated with these investments is generally minimal.
Again this was a good quarter for us in a pretty slow economic environment.
Same property NOI continued strong leasing is consistent and we are continuing to execute our recycling initiative.
Drew? Thanks Johnny.
It was a good quarter.
We continue to produce good operating results because our transformation is working.
The competitive for acquisitions has made it difficult to find great new properties but the same frothy market has also provided us with a great opportunity to dispose off our remaining non-core assets.
Our balance sheet is greatly improved which positions us to take advantage of any investment opportunities that might arise and its supported by a well balanced maturity schedule.
All in all Weingarten is well ahead in executing the five year strategic plan we outlined at our Investor Day in April of 2011.
This has dramatically improved the NAV of the company.
This plan includes the transformation of the portfolio significantly improving the quality of the properties improving operations through releasing the portfolio to fill occupancy and strengthening the balance sheet through deleveraging and improving our maturity schedule.
I am proud of our team and all of our accomplishments.
Great people great properties and a great platform equals great results.
I thank all of you for joining the call today and for your continued interest in Weingarten.
Operator we'd now be very happy to take questions.
Thank you sir.
And we will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) And from Green Street Advisors we have Jay Carlington online.
Please go ahead.
Hey great.
Thanks.
So just on your Q1 renewal spreads ticked up a little 7.8 this quarter.
Was there any one-off leases that kind of pushed that a little bit above trend? Jay this is Johnny good morning.
No I think the strength in our renewals is pretty well across the board and it's clearly the piece that we are most excited about and where we have the most leverage today.
Obviously in terms of the space that we have available the best space is already leased and again those A A plus centers are really where we have the most leverage today we are being able to really push rents there.
So when those renewals are coming up I was kind of surprised there weren't any TIs there.
Are tenants not asking for kind of above average packages there? Jay I think it's pretty normal for us not to have any capital associated with renewals.
It's an unusual situation I would say.
If we have 100 renewals there might be two or three where we are putting some capital into those.
Okay.
And I guess my second question just on the dispositions and the 7.2% cap rate it looks like that's kind of trending below that mid to high 7% range you suggested.
So is that where you're kind of looking for that next $300 million in the pipeline? It's certainly unclear to me exactly where we will end up.
I think today the 8% 7.75% is probably a good range.
Some of it will depend on the mix of assets that we sell.
We won't sell all of the assets that are on the market today.
So the mix will just depend.
But it's honestly better than we had thought it would be and make the demand in this -- B product non-core some tertiary markets is really good.
We are seeing more buyers than we have over the last couple of years and that's really helping us.
Okay.
Thank you.
From Citi we have Christy McElroy online.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
This is Katy McConnell on for Christy.
Can you talk a little bit about the drivers of this 6.4% same store expense growth in 1Q and how do you expect this to trend for the balance of the year? Yeah this is Steve.
Good morning.
If you look on page 26 of the supplemental we obviously detail out the same property NOI there between and if you look at the ratios Katy you can see that from 14 to 13 or exactly 73.5.
We did have some unusual expenses.
We had about $400 000 of incremental snow removal but that was all recovered.
We also had about $0.5 million of increased property taxes but again it was also covered.
So it doesn't fall on the bottom line but there is probably may be $1 million or so that I would call unusual in there.
But again that was basically recovered.
Okay great.
Thanks.
From Bank of America we have Juan Sanabria online.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Just wondering if you could comment a little bit on what's driving the difference if I look at occupancy between your anchor and small shop space on a year-over-year basis.
The anchor space had a significant increase I think its like 120 basis points relative to the small shops which is plus 10 and if that's sort of a read-through that may be the mom and pop demand has just not really returned post the recession.
I am not sure if its lack of availability of credit or what else your thoughts may be? Hey Juan.
I think that retailer demand has been pretty consistent over the last few years and most of the difference that we are seeing in terms of occupancy today is more related to the supply available than the demand as so much.
There is not very much box space available in the markets that we are in not only in our portfolio but generally across the board.
There is more shop space available mostly because you just haven't had this return of the local mom and pop tenant.
Almost all of the business we are doing in terms of new business today is really associated with regional and national operators and franchisees; and I really think that's where you're seeing kind of the combination of those things is where the difference is clearly and we are very focused on leasing the shop space.
It is the major initiative we have in our leasing department and I think we are doing a good job on that and I think over time we will continue to improve that.
Great thanks.
And just a quick follow-up on your development side on West Seattle.
Any updates there? I know there were some issues with the unions and their views on Whole Foods and if there is any change to how we should be thinking about the economics or the timing of that development? Good morning Juan it's Drew.
We continue to make progress and have received affirmative votes at all the various committees and city councils etcetera.
So good progress.
There is still the opportunity for folks to appeal so the exact timing of construction is still a little murky but we continue to receive those positive votes and I am cautiously optimistic that we will get there and it will be fantastic development for us.
Great.
Thank you very much.
From Robert W.
Baird we have Jonathan Pong online.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Drew wanted to dig in a little more on your comments on development environment maybe picking up a little bit.
Is that something you're seeing across each of your regions or is that something more in your core Texas markets where it seems like residential development has gotten most of the [inaudible] dollars thus far? Good morning Jonathan.
I would say we are seeing and I want to be clear and I tried to articulate this in my prepared remarks and I will try to do so again.
What we are seeing is certainly positive but it's an increase in the discussion.
We are not seeing tenants rushing to sign lease at rents that make a lot of new development possible.
So while it is a move in the right direction it's very much a trickle not the opening of a floodgate.
So our preliminary pipeline of deals that we are engaged on and talking about is longer but it's certainly premature to say that well be actively under construction of the lot any time soon.
It is something that we are seeing opportunities across the entire footprint from Seattle Washington where we are working on some other deals in addition to the West Seattle deal I just spoke about to Washington D.C.
including California Colorado Texas Florida Atlanta North Carolina up into Washington etcetera basically our whole footprint.
As you said in your question as we have talked about in New York while we love Houston and we love other parts of Texas it can be extremely competitive here for the sites that we want to buy oftentimes very -- retail just can't afford it competing with residential especially the multifamily players who are building typically a five storey product that covers almost the entire site.
So that's great for the existing portfolio that's helping Johnny fill up the shop space that's helping our occupancy that's helping our rent growth and we do see the ever so slightest improvement and are talking about developments.
Looking forward to a good conversation with more tenants at RECon in a few weeks.
But we don't see the floodgates opening with a lot of under-construction over the remaining quarters of the year.
So hopefully that clarifies and gives folks the color on that.
That's helpful.
Thanks Drew and quick follow-up question on dispositions.
You took out the two pad sites that you sold what would that cap rate have been for the other three? Hey Jonathan.
We don't include the pad size that are not producing income in the cap rate.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
From Wells Fargo we have Tammy Fique on the line.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I was just curious that first quarter NOI growth was towards the higher end of the range you provided for the year.
What if anything are you seeing on the horizon that could be a drag on growth as you continue through the year.
And I guess as we sort of think about the 2.5% at the low end are you getting more comfortable as that level of growth is off the table at this point? Good morning Tammy.
We are certainly feeling positive about the overall guidance 2.5% to 3.5% and certainly the first quarter was fantastic.
Some of what we think we have seen is may be some store closings that moved from the first quarter to the second quarter and so you might have some drag on that.
But I feel good about the guidance that we have.
I am certainly not in a position to increase that and -- generally it is a very positive quarter and I don't see anything looming on the horizon that would be negative and pretty much have leased all the space that will be impactful for this year in terms of same property NOI.
So I think we are probably pretty close.
Okay.
And then just -- again you discussed the acquisition environment remains very competitive and talked about cap rates being down about 25 basis points.
Can you provide some detail on the pipeline of acquisition opportunities that you have under contract today in terms of what markets and where you are finding the better opportunities and at what cap rates? And then maybe for the deals that you are losing what is the gap [indiscernible] between your bid and the winning bid.
Good morning Tammy it's Drew.
As Johnny mentioned cap rates have really come down and I would say that increasingly on the quality of properties that we want in most of our markets the Californias the Floridas the Washingtons certainly you're looking at cap rates that are over five or in some cases even the high fours.
So as we look at our cost of capital and where we think we need to be over time its a pretty significant gap could be 50 even 60 75 basis points.
So we continue to work across the major metropolitan areas in the 12 states that we are focused on and as we said before it's about 25 different markets depending how you score it.
We got our boots in the ground we see everything that comes to market and we are very comfortable that we are making the right decision.
So there is no place that's particularly easy.
We do have some things working that we are optimistic about in various parts of our geography.
But is all about finding the opportunities where we perceived it a little bit better than the rest of the market.
We think we can do something with it to improve it.
We would be very comfortable reducing our leverage a little bit more and as I mentioned are going to remain very disciplined.
But if we combined good opportunities with good upside that are going to contribute to continued great same property NOI numbers like we've had for the last several quarters we are happy to move forward too.
So we are seeing some opportunities but it is very competitive.
Great.
Thank you very much.
From SunTrust we have Ki Bin Kim online.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Just a couple of quick questions here.
I know the gap between signed and commenced never fully closes.
But some of the small shop or the non-anchor portion if you lease up the -- I would guess may be slightly under 300 basis points of occupants you already signed what would that translate to in terms of dollars? Hey Ki Bin I don't have that in front of me right now but did you have another question I will get back while you're asking it.
So when I look at your expiration schedule it seems like a lot of your leases have options which is not atypical.
But I was wondering if you could provide some more details around what are the typical options to a tenant? Is it kind of CPI based is it -- I guess it can't be renegotiated because that's not a real option is there a fixed increase.
Just wanted to get a sense of if the market does really get a lot better duty of options inherently caps your growth rate because tenants would typically tend to renew and what would that look like? Yes it really does vary across the board.
Clearly the national and anchored tenants have set option rates that generally are going to be 10% or so increases and the local tenants have generally option rates that will be 10% to 15% increases but they are also getting annual increases about 8%.
Then probably 13% of the mom and pops or the local tenants have options at market and certainly going forward we have done a lot more of those.
So I think you will be able to capitalize over a period of time on a shops basis.
Just to go back and answer your other question there is about $10 million of annualized rent in that category.
Okay.
And just sticking with that last question do you know that looks like if you average that out.
Like what percent of your tenants non-anchor tenants have at-market options versus what percent have it at a fixed rate and what that fixed rate average is ought to be? Hey I can get back with you on that later.
I am guessing and my range would probably be pretty close.
Probably around 35% at market and in the balance of the fixed rate.
Okay.
Thank you.
From RBC Capital Markets we have Rich Moore online.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Staying with that last question by keeping on the lease versus commenced.
Both anchors and small shops have hit sort of a low point in terms of that spread between lease versus commenced.
Can we safely assume that that's probably as low as that spread is going to get for both anchors and small shops? Rich I think that it is.
We have been sitting at over 200 for a couple of years.
You've have leasing velocity at a maximum level and we had enough vacancy that we were really leasing a lot of space and kind of getting some of boxes open takes a little bit longer.
So you tend to have that category be higher.
But I think 170 basis points today is pretty low and certainly if you look back over a longer period of time 200 basis points is closer to normal.
Okay.
Thanks Johnny.
And then could you give us a little color on the bankruptcy scene that you guys are seeing in the first quarter and as we move into the second quarter and may be with the outlook for bad debt and the provision for credit loss that you've had before what that looks like going forward? Sure Rich.
I would tell you that we haven't seen anything that is substantial that has been unexpected.
Obviously Dots filed for bankruptcy Ashley filed for bankruptcy.
Combined that stores are around $1 million in base rent 16 stores.
All of that is built into all of our forecast.
So we feel pretty good about it.
I know there has been some discussion about store closings which for us is really not going to be very impactful.
On a macro level obviously we will put some more property in the market but frankly the supply is so limited today that I don't think its going to be significantly be significant.
Okay.
And if I could just follow-up real quick on that if you don't have any new spaces coming either from bankruptcies or development what happens when a Kroger or TJX or Ross one of your big tenants wants to open stores? I mean do you guys just sort of say sorry we don't have anything and then sort of go away? That's certainly the sort of discussions that we are having and I will tell you that increasingly folks are being more flexible on the frontage and the depth and the size of the stores that they are willing to take.
And I think you will have to continue to see that over time when you're trying to lease spacing great locations.
One of the things that we have not participated in but certainly the retailers continue to look at tertiary markets to meet their overall growth demands.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Hey Rich it's Drew.
I'd just add that that's part of why we are having increased conversations about new development because we would certainly talk to them.
Its just a question of right now in most cases we still need a rent that they are not quite willing to sign on the dotted line for.
But they are willing to talk about it whereas six months 12 months ago they weren't even willing to talk about it.
That's a good point.
Thank you Drew.
From UBS we have Jeremy Metz online.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning out there.
Quick one or two on development.
Hill Top Village you said it was going pretty well but it looks like the costs went up and your yields are down 20 basis points.
Just a little color on what happened there? A lot of it is just things moving around little bit of soil conditions that we spend a little extra money on a little bit longer with Wegmans being a little bit slower.
So its nothing material.
We have debated internally we still got a reasonable kitty in our contingency.
The project is quite strong the remaining space I think we can push rent.
So its still a wonderful project.
While your observation is accurate the return slipped a little bit for its quality of property it is still well in excess of what we green light a new project on today when you think about what the exit cap rate would be for a Wegmans center on a ground lease in the Washington D.C.
area.
It's a great project and to be over eight on a project it probably sell what Johnny at five? And we have said before that 200 basis point spread is great if you have enough pre-leasing.
A 150 basis point spread could be good.
So here we are at over 300 while you're right it slipped its still a great deal.
A lot more like it.
Yeah don't disagree.
And just I mean that's actually a good segue.
Just thinking a little more broadly if you could talk about the IRRs [indiscernible] and development.
I mean clearly the 12% initial investment yields you quoted on the -- I believe 2014 you are thinking about starting in the next year that sounds good.
But just wondering how those projects look like from a -- more of an IRR perspective when you factor the time it takes to get there? Well those are of course redevelopment projects and that's where we would move forward with redevelopment projects at a lower return threshold certainly.
But most or many of the redevelopments that are exposed to are doing -- building expansions where we are adding either a multi-tenant building in the front or wing of shops in the side or building a tenant back.
I am not really sure an IRR calculation is the best way to look at it because what we have invested for a tremendous amount is just our own time in working on all the government restrictions etcetera.
So its not like one would think of it in a classic partnership private equity that I have drawn down the funds and that's when the meter starts running for IRR.
So on the redevelopments its really about our time that it can take years to sort of tee these things up that's where its mentioned in the supplemental in addition to the projects we are working actively on building there are some 74 other projects that we are trying to line up leases.
So the comment on the 12 was about redevelopment.
As to new development again we are really more focused on that spread to the exit cap rate and we think the right number is 150 to 200 basis points.
So when you are talking about a project our Wake Forest project in Raleigh that's a better return for us; and as I mentioned it looks like that project will go forward.
A Seattle project a Walter Reed project those projects will be lower.
So we are encouraged by the increased conversation on new development but it will be a very gradual and a time consuming process before we have actually ramped up our actual pipeline of stuff we are building.
Okay.
Thank you.
From Stifel we have Nathan Isbee online.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Drew just following up on this development discussion.
You mentioned the rents as the main impediment to really opening the floodgates for new development.
As you look at across the top 20 or 30 markets that you traffic in is it possible that most of the areas are fully saturated with some of the key tenants that you really would need to get a new development going? And as you look at what you have done over the last few years and what you're planning its less of a commodity like centers it's a Wegmans its a Whole Foods its Bethesda that definitely has a little bit more of a different flavor to it than what I would call just generic commodity shopping center? Good morning Nate.
You're absolutely right in your question that while as a landlord I always say that the problem is the tenant should pay more rent.
In reality its a function of several things.
Landowners don't want to part with good land at cheap prices.
Developers don't want to work for free and tenants don't want to pay more rent than they can afford.
The function of what they can afford is based on the sales that they expect to do and their returns on investment.
So in a lot of cases areas do have a reasonable supply/demand and the sales projections aren't high enough to justify things.
You overlay that when a lot of tenants are finding better returns on investment investing in their existing stores their logistics their infrastructure their omni channel presence and increasingly when we meet with tenants a lot of our tenants talk about competing for capital in their companies with the IT departments the logistics departments etcetera.
So again all of that is good for the existing portfolio drives the sales enables Johnny and Patty Bender's team to get those rent increases on the renewals.
But you're right.
Its a lot broader than just I wanted to pay more rent.
Its all about the sales and that's the beauty of the capitals model.
Right.
I mean would you say that the more commodity generic shopping center development is going to take a lot longer to come back than you would think? Well I think it will take a good long time because the other thing that we have seen is -- as you know when I was Chairman of ICSE some 17 years ago now but one of the things I talked in my state of the industry speech was the consolidation of big box tenants.
So we have certainly seen that the last several years.
So you look at the consolidation you look at the fact that lots of categories while they are doing okay now they are certainly not going to be as active.
So its challenging today to pressure Best Buy to do a new store threatening them with you're doing a Circuit City if they don't.
So yeah you're absolutely right the commodity-esque sensor will be very slow to come back.
And again its all about -- the other thing that factors into this is the psychographic of the younger generation is much more focused on an urban lifestyle and we haven't seen substantial white picket fence suburban growth and I think its a real question when that comes back in a strong way that kids want to live in homes in the suburbs that will support a lot more centers.
So that's where as you say we are being selective we are doing a lot more projects like Walter Reed like our project in Maryland that will eventually redevelop like West Seattle.
They take longer but they are really valuable barrier to entry projects at the end of the day.
Sure.
And then just finally a lot of the discussions surrounding the e-commerce impact on retailers has been centered around malls and then some of the more traditional suspects in the shopping center space.
I am just curious as you look out over the next few years with e-commerce if we could perhaps start having conversation with some of the healthier retailers who have not been part of the discussion take Target as an example.
When you think about Amazon there is really nothing at Target that's not sold on Amazon.
Are they -- do you see them rethinking their footprint plans? I think everybody is very focused on it and as you know there is a slide in our traditional road show deck that analyses how we see the retail world.
But we think the vast majority of our tenants are pretty internet resilient and the reason for that is the gross profit of the item doesn't really lend itself to delivery.
Now Amazon is held to a different standard they don't make any money and the market doesn't seem too concerned about that but that doesn't work for a lot of folks.
The other thing that's interesting of course is ICSE National Retail Federation's strong push for the collection of taxes on merchandise sold over the internet.
As you may have seen recently Amazon is now up to paying taxes in 20 states and that has shown as everybody thought.
To have a greater than anticipated effect people responded to taxes in a different way than one might think.
So we are comfortable that our good real estate in the densely populated urban areas where we continue to transform the portfolio that the omni-channel experience will continue to make our existing centers more viable and we've certainly seen some issues with digital music etcetera.
But we are very comfortable with the vast majority of the tenants.
I mean I would agree in the better centers I would agree with them.
Just curious from your perspective in lower quality centers would you see some space rationalization from healthy retailers? Well I think part of it is its a gradual thing and that's part of why we are not investing in new lower quality centers.
And then I am happy to continue this discussion with you offline if that makes sense? Absolutely.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
From Capital One Securities we have Chris Lucas online.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Drew just kind of going back to the development question a little bit.
Just could you give us a little sense as to where the discussions are coming from from type of retailer whether its grocery or general merchandise or soft goods.
Where is the predominance of those kinds of conversations occurring? Good morning Chris.
The good news is I would say its across the board and Johnny can chime in here because as you know ICSE RECon is in a few weeks.
We have already set a lot of our meetings.
We know as we call to set the meeting where a couple of years ago they would say we are not going.
Now they are we want to talk about deals.
But I would say we are seeing it in really across the board.
The conventional center markets like Kroger.
The more niche supermarkets Whole Foods Trader Joe's the TJX Ross.
We have got some meetings with the home improvement guys even.
So obviously some of the folks who are still struggling I mean not as vibrant.
But I think its across everybody.
Johnny you have any other color that you're seeing? No.
I think that's right.
Clearly the supermarkets are the dominant sector that continues to expand and will drive the potential for new properties.
But we are talking to Target and some other folks that would be able to initiate a project.
For the most part the junior boxes if we could get someone to initiate the project in a great location they certainly are in a position to want those locations.
Okay great.
Then for a second question.
Just looking at the debt maturities for a couple of your JVs one is under -- averages under one year and one averages under two years.
I guess just trying to think how are you guys thinking about dealing with those maturities? Chris it varies.
I think some of our partners are -- well basically make contributions to the partnership and we won't refinance and then others were basically out in the market looking to roll back debt.
And we obviously do that in a secured market.
Any chance that those would be more of a liquidity event in terms of looking to exit the joint ventures? No I think that -- I think that's always a question in today's world as -- because obviously if someone is looking to exit any time soon having a asset that's not encumbered by debt it is certainly more marketable and different -- and buyers want to put different levels of debt and so forth.
So I would say certainly that's in the cards.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
(Operator Instructions) We do have a follow-up from Juan Sanabria.
Please go ahead.
Hi just one quick follow-up.
Could you estimate the spreads between what you need depends a lot on developments versus sort of market rents today and I am sure it is a pretty broad generalization but if you could give us any color that'd be great? It is a very broad generalization.
But I would again say we are still -- some significant degree apart 15% 20% of where we need things.
So I want to hopefully be clear on everything we've said over the last little bit that we are encouraged by the increased conversation the increased dialog etcetera.
But at that point that's all it is.
Its not massive open-to-buy increases for 2015 that needs us to start construction real soon.
So its the most early seedling but we are still a little bit of -- a significant amount of part closer than it was.
Great thanks.
That does it for me.
Thanks Juan.
Good morning.
And we have Rich Moore back online.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Steve just one quick question for you on the credit line you have a balance on the credit line I think about $160 million.
Is there any plan to do anything at this point with that or do you need to wait for it to get a little bigger and do a bond offering kind of thing? Well Rich you're right.
We continue to monitor the markets we have a little under the revolver today.
But we will wait and see what happens with our opportunity to invest in new capital and the success of our disposition program.
And as the business plan lays out today we are actually anticipating being a net sell-out this year.
So there may not be any need to do anything quite frankly and that's where -- its just too early in the year right now to be able to determine exactly what we do with that balance and where it will be at the end of the year.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
And we have Jay Carlington back online.
Please go ahead.
I guess I will join the follow-on party.
You mentioned the Safeway sale going on right now and I know Randall's has kind of been one of the weaker players in your markets down there.
So is there any insight in kind of what they are thinking their strategy is? Are they looking to exit some of those leases? Can you give us some insight on what the lease term looks like for those stores down there kind of just what your thoughts are? Yeah Jay certainly we have had a number of discussions with our friends at Safeway.
Today their current thinking is is that they would continue to operate Randall's.
They operate a company called Tom Thumb in Dallas that basically they are utilizing some of the same distribution facilities for they operate in Austin.
They actually got a few new stores planned for 2015 here in Houston that would be pretty urban in nature.
So their current thinking is is that they would continue to operate the stores.
Today our sales for Randall's are about $350 a square foot so well below the company average.
I certainly think that so far Albertsons has done a pretty good job in terms of putting together different flags in different parts of the country.
And so I am certainly encouraged that they would be able to increase those sales just because Randall's has had such a difficult time with their price image over the last couple of years.
If in fact they did elect to sell the Houston units I think we will be in tremendous shape and would be able to benefit significantly from new stores both from an NAV perspective as well as an FFO perspective.
Okay.
That was my next question.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) It looks like we have no further questions.
I will turn it back to you Drew for any closing remarks.
Thanks Brandon.
Well I thank everybody for participating in the call.
We really appreciate the interest in Weingarten.
We will see a lot of you at ICSE RECon in Vegas coming up in a few weeks and/or at NAREIT in New York a few weeks after that.
So thanks so much for your interest and we will certainly be around for any other questions this afternoon.
All the best have a great weekend.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Weingarten Realty Second Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
My name is Brandon and I'll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Michelle Wiggs.
Michelle you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter 2014 conference call.
Joining me today is Drew Alexander President and CEO; Stanford Alexander Chairman; Johnny Hendrix Executive Vice President and COO; Steve Richter Executive Vice President and CFO; and Joe Shafer Senior Vice President and CAO.
As a reminder certain statements made during the course of this call are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
More information about these factors is contained in the company's SEC filings.
Also during this call management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as funds from operations or FFO both recurring and reported which we believe help analysts and investors to better understand Weingarten's operating results.
Reconciliation to these non-GAAP financial measures is available in our supplemental information package located under the Investor Relations tab of our website.
I would also like to request that callers observe a two question limit during the Q&amp;A portion of our call in order to give everyone a chance to participate.
If you have additional questions please rejoin the queue.
I will now turn the call over to Drew Alexander.
Thank you Michelle and thanks to all of you for joining us.
We are very pleased to report another fine quarter.
operations remained strong with another very good same property NOI growth number at 3.5%.
Occupancy continues to increase bolstered by historically low tenant fall out and rental rates on new leases and renewals continue to rise.
This performance is a clear indication that our portfolio transformation is producing the kid of results we expected when we implemented this strategic plan three year ago.
Since that time we significantly transformed WRI by disposing of 1.2 billion of non-core assets and redeploying some of those proceeds into $500 million of high quality properties in high barrier to entry markets.
Since 2011 we have increased recurring FFO and our dividend every year even though the transformation has reduced NOI by almost $50 million.
As we have mentioned before 2014 will effectively mark the completion of this important initiative.
Johnny will detail our disposition status but the summary is we're extremely confident that we will meet our 2014 goals and by year end our transformation will be complete.
As to the recycling of this capital and the high quality assets the acquisition market remains extremely competitive we have a couple of opportunities in the pipeline and we continue to look at every deal but as always we remain very disciplined.
Turning to new development we are pleased to announce we purchased the land for Wake Forest Crossing in Raleigh.
As discussed in our Investor Day presentation in December we will develop a $108 000 square feet of new buildings.
We have signed leases with T.J.
Maxx and Michaels with two other anchors very close to signing leases.
This is an expansion of an existing shopping center owned by others that has over 200 000 square feet which includes a food store and the Kohls.
Our investment in the project will be about $16 million and should be complete by the third quarter of 2015.
Additionally our Hilltop development in Washington DC continues to progress nicely with Wegmans now under construction and scheduled to open in mid 2015.
We're also very pleased to announce The Whitaker our exciting infill project in West Seattle has cleared the last significant entitlement hurdle with the approval of the Master Use Permit and is now ready to move forward.
This six storey mixed-use project is being co-developed with Lennar with our 63 000 square foot retail portion anchored by Whole Foods market.
Our investment is about $28 million in completion is estimated to be in the third quarter of 2016.
As indicated last quarter there is more activity in new development.
We certainly don't expect to be under construction of a lot of new products soon.
But we are seeing activity that is more than just talk and our experienced team is ready as opportunities arise.
I'll now turn it over to Steve to discuss our financial results.
Thanks Drew.
I am happy to report that WRI turned in another solid quarter.
Recurring FFO was $0.51 per diluted share for the quarter up from $0.49 in the second quarter last year.
FFO for the quarter benefited from the improved commenced occupancy which increased by 90 basis points from the same quarter of the prior year and the impact of our prior year acquisition.
Recurring FFO also benefited from the redemption of our preferred F shares in June of 2013 as well as the favorable impact of our ongoing refinancing of debt maturities.
Offsetting these increases was a dilutive effect of our disposition program in 2013 and 2014 which cost us $0.03 per share of FFO compared to the second quarter of last year.
Reported FFO for the second quarter increased to $0.53 per share from $0.37 per share in 2013.
Included in the 13 amount was a write-off of preferred redemption cost of $0.13 per share.
Additionally included in the reported FFO is about $0.02 per share of deferred tax benefit related to the sale of land held for development that has been excluded from recurring FFO.
Turning to the balance sheet.
At quarter end the company's net debt to EBITDA was 5.7 times down from 6.24 times in the second quarter of 2013.
Net debt plus preferred EBITDA which many of us agree is a more important measure of leverage was a strong 6.16 times and debt-to-total market cap decreased to 33%.
One contributor this continued improvement in the increase activity in our land held inventory.
Since the beginning of the year we have sold $7.1 million of land and transferred another $4.8 million to operations for development both of which contribute to our improved financial ratios.
As we have mentioned were working on other tracks and expect to continue to make progress monetizing the land held.
The transformation of our balance sheet from three years ago has been significant as recognized last month by Moodys who upgraded our outlook to positive from stable.
Additionally subsequent to quarter end we called for redemption the remaining $90 million of our 8.1% notes.
Through significant refinancings and restructuring of our debt over the last few years we have totally transformed our balance sheet and are well positioned for growth opportunities as they arise.
As to guidance we want everyone to understand that our back end loaded disposition program will cost us NOI and FFO in the second half of 2014 and therefore remain comfortable with recurring FFO of $1.95 to $2.01 per share for all of 2014.
We are reducing our guidance for acquisitions to a range of $50 million to a $100 million but are reaffirming the remainder of the guidance we provided last quarter.
All of the guidance details are included on page nine of our supplemental.
Johnny? Thanks Steve.
Even as economic conditions have been mixed and retailer demand still modest we continue to gain leverage as existing inventories remain very low and new supplies extremely limited.
Our transform portfolio primarily supermarket anchored centers with discount clothing in major metropolitan market continues to perform well.
Today our supermarkets average $556 a square foot in sales this translates to 65 000 to 70 000 customers every month just coming to the supermarkets.
That's why our centers are the first choice for many retail and service tenants.
When we were in New York last December we reviewed some of the opportunities we were working on to replace a few of our anchors.
For the projects we highlighted was the Westchase Shopping Center here in Huston.
Today we're announcing we signed a lease with Whole Foods market for a new 45 000 square foot store.
This is a fantastic replacement for the Randall's whose lease expires this month.
Once the redevelopment is complete we estimate we'll pick up a net of $10 million in net asset value.
I expect Whole Foods to open in early 2016 so we'll have a little downtime.
But this is a good example of the short-term paying and long-term gain we talked about at our Investor Day.
The portfolio same property NOI continues to perform at the top end of our expectations and at the top end of our peer group.
Weingarten Same Property pool represents about 94% of the total company net operating income.
At quarter end we increased same property occupancy the 95.2% so it's clearly a significant part of our NOI growth.
We also increased base minimum rent in our same property pool by 3.5% a great indication of the strength of our portfolio.
Over the last 10 quarters Weingarten has averaged 4% in same property NOI.
Another significant contributor to our same property NOI performance has been the decrease in fallouts.
We only lost 89 tenants in the second quarter the fewest since 2005 we have better properties and we have better tenants and that is clearly contributing to our performance.
We have a great operating platform and we are efficient at leasing space but we are always looking to get better.
Our shop centric program which is basically tools for prospecting and processing leases really highlights our strong platform.
We just added electronic signatures to the program allowing our tenants to sign leases digitally.
This easily reduces the leasing cycle by five days it gets tenants open and paying rent faster and provides much greater efficiency allowing leasing executives time to work on new deals rather than chase signatures.
This is a little thing that demonstrates how we are focused on executing everyday.
As for occupancy we increased to 94.8% during the quarter thats up 60 basis points from a year ago and 30 basis points over the last quarter.
Shops improved at 88.6% and remain at primary focus.
We still have some opportunity increase occupancy going forward to around 95% to 96% although there could be some variability before we reach stabilization.
The recovery in Florida has been very impressive our occupancy there is 95.8%.
California is 96.2% and Texas is 95.4% these three states represent 60% of our companys NOI.
As a reminder about a third of our portfolio is in Texas.
In the past 10 years 29% of the nation's net new jobs were created in Texas.
Houston and Dallas have produced the highest percentage of job growth in the top 20 metros.
And with our low cost of live in a pay check in Houston goes farther than any other major metropolitan area.
Rent growth continues to improve.
The company produced rent growth of 9.4% overall with new leases at 10.9% and renewals at 8.9%.
Overall about 90% of all our leases signed during the quarter had increases.
A good indicator that we continue to gain leverage.
All the outstanding operating metrics we've been posting show the impact that our transformation has had on Weingarten's portfolio.
On page 41 of the supplemental we've highlighted the change from the beginning of 2008 to the present in many of our key metrics.
Average base rent per square foot has increased by 26%.
Average household income has increased by 17%.
The number of college graduates is up 22%.
And these improvements are for the entire portfolio not just the difference between the properties we bought and sold.
So you can see the impact of the transformation is profound.
As for dispositions we see very strong demand for our non-core centers.
So far this year we sold $100 million with a cap rate of 7.3%.
We've also built a large pipeline which gives me confidence we will be above the midpoint of our guidance range of $300 million to $400 million.
Obviously it will mostly be back end loaded.
Today we have 13 properties under contract for $86 million.
We have 13 additional properties with letters of intent for $144 million and the company is actively marketing another $330 million.
This pipeline of $560 million will give us the ability to maximize values as buyers negotiate and assures we will achieve our guidance.
Again we feel very good about our status here.
Most of the assets we are marketing are listed on our website so you can see exactly what we're trying to sale.
On the acquisition side of the equation we remain disciplined.
We're looking in the primary markets where we already have a presence.
We're looking for high incomes good density and high education levels.
We want the assets that would rank in the top 30% of our portfolio.
We require new assets to be accretive within a few years and we want annual growth around 3%.
We're seeing this type of asset trade for cap rates in the range of four and three quarters to 5.5%.
We have a couple of properties under contract now and we're working through due diligence process.
So there is no guarantee we will close.
While external growth is challenging we found great opportunities to create value in our existing portfolio.
We have eight active redevelopment projects and expect to stand around $44 million with projected incremental returns between 11% and 15%.
We have a list of those projects on page 14 at the supplemental with a short description of the work.
Also there are 13 near-term pipeline projects with an estimated investment of $34 million.
I'll expect to start work on most of those redevelopments within the next six to 12 months.
They are all projects where we are adding square footage and revenue and ultimately improving the net asset value of the property.
So we're excited about the progress we've made this quarter and looking forward to the second half of 2014.
Drew? Thanks Johnny.
It was a good quarter good progress on the transformation great operating metrics especially the 3.5% same-property NOI growth; progress on the new development front; monetization of some of our land held inventory; some opportunities for acquisition; increased redevelopment activity and upgrade from Moodys; FFO growth in spite of NOI loss to dispositions.
I am proud of our team and all of our accomplishments; great people; great properties and a great platform equals great results.
I want to thank all of you for joining the call today and for your continued interest in Weingarten.
And operator wed be very happy to take questions now.
Thank you Drew.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
And from UBS Securities we have Ross Nussbaum on line.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Its Jeremy on with Ross.
I am trying to get a little bit of understanding; you talked about historically low tenant fall outs at a nine year low but the small shop I can see was flat year-over-year.
So I am just trying to get a little bit of feel for closings are at a big low demand is holding I would have expected to see that occupancy pick up a little bit? Hey Jeremy this is Johnny.
Good question.
Some of that is impacted by the dispositions that weve had over the last little bit and weve had relatively high occupancy in the shop space there.
And then some of that is just -- some of it has cycled.
And you can see our spread between commenced and signed occupancy has gone up a little bit and some of that is in there.
Okay.
And then just in terms of same-store NOI you reaffirmed your guidance range of 2.5 to 3.5 you're trending at the very high-end of that right now.
Just thinking about the back half of the year is there anything that we should expect anything driving expected slowdown or is it just tougher comps or do you think some of those store closing then maybe having them in the first half of the year maybe pick up in back half for the year? Yes Jeremy you really hit it with that last part of the question.
And what we talked about in New York was we were going to have some of our anchors and sub-anchors who we were going to be replacing in a couple of Office Depots and that is happening.
And when you look at the Randall store the lease expires this month and we won't have the Whole Foods online until 2016.
So there is a little bit of a drag on some of the tenants that were replacing; and that's really the primary piece of in terms of same property NOI.
Great.
Thank you.
From Citi we have Christy McElroy online.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone.
Given that youre now expecting a meaningfully higher level of dispositions in 2014 versus acquisitions Johnny you referenced the pipeline of 560 million.
At NAREIT when we talked about capital recycling you talked about the possibility of special dividend given a tax simplification.
Can you provide your updated thoughts on that and if you did do a special dividend what would be the timing? Good morning Christy.
It's Drew.
That is a distinct possibility and I think a lot of it is really hard to forecast specifically but it is a distinct possibility.
It gets into -- if we find other acquisitions how much we can 1031 even some of the land parcels that we are looking at in new development are expensive enough that it probably makes sense to 1031 those.
So other than that its a possibility I dont know that we have a whole lot of color on it but we will as we go into the end of the year and towards next year.
Okay.
And then as I think about sort of your portfolio overall and your ability to push rents versus occupancy can you talk about which market do you have the greatest pricing power where revenues are being driven by upside in rents at this point versus markets in your portfolio where you still have some sort of overall market vacancy where you are able to get occupancy higher but you still get price pressure at it?  Yes Christy we have clearly done very well in Texas.
If you look at whats pushing the rent growth we are probably around 15% in Texas overall.
We have done very well in Florida.
We have very good leverage there; a lot of the space has been taken up.
California has been a little bit lower.
And most of the issue is California is not the demand associated with the spaces but the level of the rent was at on the last turn where we are moving some rents from $60 to $55 and its still high rent but its difficult to get the rent that we got at the peak there in California.
And then I would say generally the major metropolitan areas that have high density high income we're doing very well in markets where secondary or tertiary markets maybe in some of the properties in Louisiana.
We are it's more difficult to push rents in those areas.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
From Green Street Advisors we have Jay Carlington on line.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks.
Andrew can you maybe comment on any interest in pursuing one of your local peers that's evaluating strategic alternatives and you had any interest there in the past? Good morning Jay.
Yes I would say we are definitely interested at the right price.
You know those folks seeing them a lot talk if I had some what I could describe as very casual conversations overtime about I am reading and would it make sense to combine their good properties and I would say right pricing right other things.
We would definitely have an interest.
Okay.
And Johnny I'm kind of looking at the dispositions through the year and how you think about that going forward? And I think the in average cap rate 7.3% maybe a year ago that was north of 8%.
So are these higher quality properties thats left in the pipeline or is just cap rate compression and how do you see? And are you seeing any changes in the buyer approval? Yes Jay several good questions here.
First of all I think that cap rates have gone down generally in secondary tertiary markets probably 50 basis points over the last 9 months to 12 months.
And I think that's a lot of what you are seeing.
Actually I would comment that the quality of the properties we're selling today is less than the quality of the properties we sold last year.
So overall a lot of that cap rate compression.
In terms of the buyer pool it's pretty much the same group of folks.
But I would tell you that we're starting to see some institutional demand trickle into the secondary markets cities that have a million or so.
And that demand is highly focused on supermarket anchors and with the higher volumes.
But it certainly is part of what is pushing cap rates down and increasing demand in those markets.
That's great thank you.
From Bank of America we have Juan Sanabria on line.
Please go head.
Hi good morning Drew I was just hoping you could help us think about dispositions with an eye towards 2015 I know you said we're basically done at the end of this year with a disposition pool but given sort of your guidance for this year and what's left to be potentially on the market.
whatever you don't sell this year will that be looking to be sold over the course of 2015 or how should we be thinking about that? Good morning Juan again several good questions in there.
I think a lot of the specifics will have to play by here in terms of how we end up this year and how you count things that close in the first quarter of next year.
What we talked about in New York which is I think a very good way to look at it is we think ongoing that dispositions pruning capital recycling is a big part of our strategy.
And what we talked about in New York is sort of a stabilized after the transformation would be about 125 million to 175 million.
So the mid-point of that is obviously about 150.
And we think the spread between what we're buying and the quality that we'll be selling then will have narrowed.
As Johnny mentioned the spreads on really good trophy properties have dropped quite a bit.
So I think the best way to think about ongoing dispositions would probably be around 7 which is lower than where weve been recently even with the improvement in cap rates that Johnny just spoke about.
Great thank you.
And with regards to developments you said that there is -- it's more than talks you kind of mentioned that last quarter as well.
Can you comment on sort of the bid-askspread on the necessary rents to get the developments depends a lot and maybe what markets your maybe closer to being able to actually harvest some opportunities you talked about some land purchases that you could be used to 10.31 offsets that are pretty chunky.
So where exactly are you seeing the best opportunities? Were active across the entire footprint and very comfortable investing in the major metropolitan areas in the 12 states that were looking at from Washington State to Washington DC and obviously with active projects in both Washington State to Washington DC those are great markets for us.
Houston as we talked about again and New York is very hot but part of the problem there is competing with the apartment folk.
So wed love to do more here but its extremely competitive.
So obviously we move forward on the project in North Carolina were looking at things in Florida elsewhere in Texas Arizona and California.
So as we tried to articulate we do think its something real we do think there will be more activity but it will definitely be a trickle.
Its hard to put an exact number on that bid-ask spread but I would say there are still a good 10% 15% difference between what you need in a lot of projects and where the tenants are and with the economy being okay not great they dont have that tremendous pressure to increase their opened to buy.
So I think its something real but as I said last quarter its not a flood it's a trickle.
And should we expect more mix use just given the cost of land? I know you specifically reference Houston just curious on your thoughts there.
And I will leave it at that.
I think that will be a trickle as well but yes it will be more.
I mean that's where a lot of the retailers the millennials are today is a much more urban lifestyle.
So projects like we're doing in West Seattle and involved in Washington D.C.
will play increasingly important role in the company's development pipeline.
Thank you.
From Robert W.
Baird we have Jonathan Pong on the line.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
TI for square foot at the little high third over $19 for new lease this quarter.
Was that just a function along our lease terms or whether a few larger leases that may have skewed that a bit? Hi Jonathan good morning.
Yes you hear on there is really two leases that moved that [heads mark] where we actually took in what we call some no front space or some space that hadn't been occupied by the last tenant and combined some shop space with it and the cost of that was a little bit more than what we traditionally would see.
Got it thanks Johnny.
And then with the reduction and acquisition guidance.
Can you give us an update on your thinking about what you're going to do with the comparable first this year? Thats something Jonathan we look at constantly it will depend upon the results of what the disposition acquisition program comes up net towards the end of the year.
There is a possibility I would acknowledge that.
But at this point I think it's too early to call one way or another where we wanted to implement.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
From SunTrust we have Ki Bin Kim online.
Please go ahead.
Hey thank.
Just a quick question on market rents.
What do you think market rents are probably doing this year in Texas for junior box space or small shop space? And how does that flow into maybe the forecast given whats expiring next year and the vintage of the expiring leases next year? What do you think we could see possibly from a rent spread perspective?  Hey Jonathan.
Ki Bin.
I am sorry Ki Bin.
I think its hard to generalize all of the spaces in Texas.
I can tell you that generally speaking rates are up and they are up for the year somewhere around 10% to 15% for the quarter.
Given the low supply and the low amount of new development that we are seeing coming into the market I have to believe that we will continue to see pressure on prices and well continue to see prices rise even today as strong as Houston is you are just not seeing a lot of new development because of the competition we have with other uses in the high density populated areas.
And I just want to clarify when you say 10% to 15% are you talking about market rents or are you talking about the spread from expiring to resigning?  Yes I was talking about the spread on expiring.
Youve probably seen if you are looking at an annualized number today 3.5% 4% increases in rent.
Okay and  On good properties.
Okay.
And just one follow up.
When I look at lot of strips -- I mean the data really is more probably geared towards the junior box users and anchors.
But it doesn't really seem like retailers are pushing up great sales numbers.
But when it comes on rent taking for spaces what do you think matters more in a market like Texas where supply is low? Is it just a lack of supply and multiple bidders or is it at the end of the day for the sector to do better do we just need a lot more robust sales coming from the retailers themselves? Well certainly more robust sales would be helpful.
You are absolutely correct we are seeing multiple sales reports that are some are good some are not so good Kroger sales are up 4% the last report that they gave but some of the other junior boxes are far less.
We're definitely seeing a little more business with the home improvement and in furniture.
A lot of that is because of the residential boom that we've had going on.
Overall I think we need both we need to continue to have a low supply and certainly will need a little bit more robust sales for things to pick up more dramatically.
Alright.
Thank you.
Thanks.
From Wells Fargo Securities we have Tammy Fique on line.
Please go ahead.
Yes I was just curious it looks like last quarter you were close on a $42 million acquisition.
Can you talk about if that's still in process and if not what happened? Good morning Tammy it's Drew.
I don't know the specifics of the deal you are referencing is mentioned.
We have some deals in the pipeline; some things have been taken a little longer than ideal.
So it maybe the deal is still working.
Johnny reminds me there was a deal in Phoenix that were working on that didn't past due diligence.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then I guess how would you characterize the additional $250 million of projects that went into the disposition bucket this quarter versus last quarter.
I guess just sort of thinking that with the $400 million of decisions that you planned for the year at the top end that you were kind of getting through the transformation process.
I guess if you could just sort of characterize may be what would cause you to add another $250 million to that pipeline that would be helpful.
Thank you.
Tammy what were seeing is in a lot of these secondary markets a lot of negotiation not only on the front end but then after due diligence.
And really I think in order for us to maximize the value to our shareholders we elected to add a few more properties to the list.
These are properties that are in secondary markets like a Lexington.
And we are eventually going to exit those markets.
And I think well be able to make a judgment later on if we continue marketing those and if we close some of the other stuff that we currently have under contract or negotiating letter of intent with.
Okay great.
Thank you.
From JP Morgan we have Michael Mueller online.
Please go head.
Yes hi.
Drew in your prior comments about asset sales in response to a question I may have missed it but did you basically clarify in terms of saying on a go forward basis we think were going to have this level of recurring assets sales? How do you think about that especially in an environment where it seems like acquisitions are still large to come by?  Yes I hope to and I am happy to try to do that again.
What we talked about in New York in sort of the stabilize go forward world where we see pruning the portfolio and dispositions as an important part of our business that would be somewhere in the 125 to 175 cap rates call it about a 7 my own view is that acquisitions there will be something out there but it is conceivable that if acquisitions was nothing then wed be at the lower end of that on a sort of stabilized basis.
Okay.
That was great.
Thanks.
From Cowen we have Jim Sullivan on line.
Please go ahead.
Good morning thank you.
It would appear given how difficult the acquisition market is that the redevelopments as alternative or incremental source of capital seems to be much more accretive.
You indicated 10% to 15% yield on these.
And I just want to be clear that what you have in the pipeline I think the average project size is about $5 million.
But youve talked about in near-term I think the average investment per project was a little bit less.
But you do identify in that in your stuff that there is more than 70 projects that youre actively looking at.
I wonder if there is kind of Drew or Johnny if there is kind of an annual run rate that you think you can do here in terms of deploying capital at those kind of yields? Yes Jim good morning.
Yes we kind of would look at somewhere around $30 million as probably an average run rate.
Over the last several years thats kind of been where were at.
When you look on page 14 you have $43 million but that wont be done all in a single year and then youve got the properties back behind that.
Now in terms of the size when you define and this is maybe a Steve question.
But when you define your same property NOI excludes by definition any redevelopment.
So I just want it to be clear there is Steve kind of some dividing line between one project is major enough to do excluded or do you simply exclude is that's a definition had a sense every redevelopment? No Jim good morning.
Let me clarify the distinction is not this in redevelopment if excluded from same property pool.
Actually the way that we define kind of what gets included in redevelopment is when we're changing the footprint of the shopping centers.
So with we're building a building tearing down a building et cetera is really kind of what drives that and I think it's noted in the supplemental which ones are include no.
So but I guess back to the point is that there is some of the redevelopments that are included in same-store and some of them are not.
I see.
Jim probably a good example would be Brookwood in Atlanta.
I'm tearing down a former Home Depot building and building a new floater building and a new LA Fitness building.
Well I have renewed that property from my same property NOI.
Here in Houston we're tore down a pad that was a restaurant and we're putting a little floater building in there.
But kept that property in my same property NOI and I've been consistent about it Ive kept in the end well I'm tearing the building down and I'm going to leave it when I add the new building.
So that's kind of the new onside there small if it's kind of the ordinary course of what we're doing in business and then we'll probably leave it in if it's bigger we're going to tear down some major a building area then well take it out.
Okay.
And then finally from me in terms of the same property NOI your retail portfolio of course comprises a variety of product types or categories as we think about it from smaller grocery-anchored centers to larger community centers and tower centers and I just wonder as we think about the relative same property NOI growth for the property types is there any material difference in terms of the growth rates that you are seeing is there more potential going forward for more growth in one property type than in another or is the differential in same property growth more kind of a regional issue?  Jim there does tend to be some difference in property types.
We have looked at it a couple of occasions and I think the supermarket anchored centers grow at a more steady and constant rate than the more power centers seem to grow kind of jerk along like there will be big increase and then they will be flat for a little while.
Overtime they seem to be around the same and thats really kind of how we have seen same property growth in those two property types.
Relative to regional areas the great thing about being diversified is sometimes Texas is hot sometimes Florida sometimes California and overtime it does seem all even out.
Okay very good thank you.
Good morning.
Can you talk about the health of your mom and pop centers? Yes Carol it's interesting the companies number of mom and pops tenants has gone down pretty dramatically over the last several years.
Today we're about 77% national and regional tenants in a lot of franchises in that.
Overall the ones that have survived this financial crisis seem to be doing well.
And that's why the fallout is relatively low.
They seem to have access to cash.
I've even heard kind of going back to some of the home ATM plan.
So I feel pretty good about kind of what's happened in the ones that have survive seemed to have good sales good business plans and things seems to be going pretty well with them.
There is not a lot of new business formation in that category today.
And I think there is a lot of fear in terms of government taxes and regulations and other things.
So hopefully they will gain some confidence and we'll get that business kind of coming back.
Are you seeing the tenants that are surviving are they in a specific category like food or services or where are those tenants mostly located? I can say that there is almost none of them in retail.
So you cannot compete with Ross and Marshalls and TJ Max and Wal-Mart.
Where you really seeing the formation of mom and pop business is services.
Some in the medical services but a lot of the other services insurance nail salons different kind of things like that.
And that's really almost all the new business formation that we are seeing today.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
From RBC Capital Markets we have Rich Moore online.
Please go ahead.
Yes hi good morning guys.
So Johnny as follow-up to Carols question you guys have been doing national tenant leasing for small shops for quite some time and that's kind of been the way things have been going.
And I am curious at this point if may be some of these locations I mean you've seen these vacancies may be some of these small shop locations and you're saying there is really won't ever be leased I guess that is not in the right spots.
And so we don't see the kind of jump in occupancy that we might hope for?  I hope not.
Our plan is certainly to lease them and I think we do have good quality spaces that are still available.
To get to that 95.5% on need to lease a little bit over 200 000 square feet of shop space.
I think that we can do that.
And I think we'll over time be able to manage through that.
So you are still seeing the interest from the national guys for the smaller spaces?  Oh definitely yes.
That's where -- from the national guys that's really where the business coming from.
You got Chipotle SUBWAY Vitamin Shop Sally Beauty.
So you still have a lot of those folks who are out there looking for space.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And then just a quick follow-up on the redevelopment.
You guys identified 73 long-term projects you called them in the supplemental.
And I am curious is that just -- do you have little something to do on every one of the assets and the portfolio or do you actually have 73 identified projects I guess?  Yes Rich this is -- the 73 projects there are 73 projects that we have identified where there are opportunities for redevelopment.
Now some of these could be building a pad some of these could be carrying down buildings and going vertical.
Now it's going to be a long time before those things are realized because we have to -- have issues with other tenants and tenant that we -- it will just take a long time to work through.
So what were trying to do is identify just over a period of time one of the projects were working on.
We do review those projects on a regular basis those projects; we are working toward redevelopment clauses in most of leases so we can do something at the time as appropriate.
Okay great.
And so this gets you to the $30 million of redevelopment annually kind of target? Right.
Yes great.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Rich.
And from SunTrust we have Ki Bin Kim back on line.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Just a quick one.
Can you just walk me through how complicated or maybe easier it would be if you did pursue some kind of public acquisition to use OP units to make that transition for the sellers on the kind of tax issue is that an easy process or is that -- and is it guarantee that long as you work through or is there a lot of hurdles regarding that potentially? Its pretty simple plus if youre just doing a merger youre trading stock for stock you dont even need to go through the exercise of OP units.
The stock for stock is a like kind of [exchange].
Okay.
Thats it.
Thanks.
And from [West Main Partners] we have [Adam Joseph] on line.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Couple of questions as it relates to the Safeway and related entities.
Where are you on exposure with the number of those properties? And how should we think about as those leases come off to us? You obviously trade it up in a big way by replacing probably underperforming rentals with the great rental with Whole Foods.
How should we think about that? And if I can ask kind of a third question or two what other conversations youre having with them and what are you doing proactively to maybe alleviate any potential problems that they might have in their portfolio line up? Thanks.
Right we've been in very close contact with Safeway and with our friends at Randall's we've obviously had a very long history with them.
And I wouldnt say that the vast majority of the 7 Randall's we have remaining or very good stores.
And I'm really not concerned that Randall's will close them and not do something with them.
Probably the biggest issue for me is will I'll be able to take advantage of an opportunity if something did happen to Randall's.
Now I will tell you that they have been adamant that they are going to continue to operate their stores in Houston.
And hopefully with Albertsons and Safeway they will be able to pick up sales.
So I feel good about overall the stores that we have with them and what we'll be able to do.
My guess is if they we're going to close they would sale most of those stores to another operator.
Okay.
So in the total portfolio of Safeway and related companies Randall's and the other brands you have seven properties that classify as exposure per se? No and I apologize if I misled you.
I have seven Randall stores I also have I'm sorry.
I have 17 total Safeway stores.
Safeway and related brands correct? Right right.
And again in terms of the merger I don't see that we're going to have a lot of issues we're not in areas where Albertsons and Safeway overlap much.
And so I think that we will be in pretty good shape and again it's not really something that I've been tremendously concerned about because of the quality of the properties that we have with them.
Okay.
And finally the supporting tenants in those centers where you have the Safeway and related brands are you getting any comments from your other tenants as to how they see this potentially falling out or happening or being replaced is there any feedback you are getting from some of those kind of long standing supporting tenants thats around those stores?  I think for the most part people are encouraged that they would bring in a new operator and that would be able to maybe even increase sales over a period of time I think they are doing a fine job with the stores today and Albertsons hopefully will improve that.
Great excellent I appreciate the feedback thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Okay looks like we have no questions at this time.
Drew I am going to hand it back to you for final remarks.
Thanks Brandon I appreciate everybodys attention and interest in Weingarten and your participation in the call and we are certainly around if there are any follow up questions.
Thank you so much have a great day and great weekend.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Weingarten Realty's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Joe and I'll be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode and later we'll conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I'll now turn the conference over to Vice President of Investor Relations Michelle Wiggs.
Ms.
Wiggs you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter 2014 conference call.
Joining me today is Drew Alexander President and CEO; Stanford Alexander Chairman; Johnny Hendrix Executive Vice President and COO; Steve Richter Executive Vice President and CFO; and Joe Shafer Senior Vice President and CAO.
As a reminder certain statements made during the course of this call are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
More information about these factors is contained in the company's SEC filings.
Also during this conference call management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as funds from operations or FFO both recurring and reported which we believe help analysts and investors to better understand Weingarten's operating results.
Reconciliation to these non-GAAP financial measures is available in our supplemental information package located under the Investor Relations tab of our website.
I would also like to request that callers observe a two question limit during the Q&amp;A portion of our call in order to give everyone a chance to participate.
If you have additional questions please rejoin the queue.
I will now turn the call over to Drew Alexander.
Thank you Michelle and thanks to all of you for joining us.
We're pleased to report another fine quarter.
As we enter the home stretch of our transformation process the strong operating results for this quarter clearly validate our strategy.
We produced another great quarter of same property NOI growth up 3.8% over the prior year.
Over the previous 10 quarters we produced the highest same property NOI of our peer group at 4.1%.
We increased rental rates on new leases by 20.3% for the quarter a clear indication of the improvement in the quality of our portfolio helped by an ever dwindling supply of available retail space.
Total occupancy is up.
Sharp occupancy is up and tenant fallout is down.
And more importantly recurring FFO is up in spite of the significant drag caused by our accelerated disposition program.
All of these outstanding metrics are a result of our extensive capital recycling over the last few years.
You'll see significant disposition activity in the fourth quarter as we're in the final innings of our transformation.
Next year we'll see a more normal asset management mode with dispositions in the $125 million to $150 million range so a very strong quarter.
As to new development things are good.
Our Hilltop development in D.C.
continues to progress nicely with preleasing now at over 93%.
Wegmans is under construction and scheduled to open in the first half of 2015.
At our Wake Forest development The Whitaker our exciting infill project in West Seattle is also moving forward.
The six story mixed-use project is being co-developed with Lennar with our 63 000 square foot retail portion anchored by Whole Foods.
Demolition has begun and building permits should be issued soon.
Our investment will be around $29 million and completion is estimated to be in the third quarter of 2016.
We're pleased to announce a new project to our pipeline Nottingham Commons.
We purchased 18.3 acres of land in White Marsh Maryland a suburb of Baltimore for $22 million.
Upon completion in about two years this 133 000 square foot development should have an approximate investment of $45 million and generate a 7.2% return.
This property is well located in the dense core of White Marsh Maryland with over 210 000 people in five miles.
It's directly across the street from the successful Regional Power Center and near White Marsh Mall.
We like this project for many reasons.
The seller has completed all the entitlements and the majority of the site work.
We have leases in place on four of the six pad sites and just the completed ground leases represent a return of 2.7%.
We're also far along in lease negotiations with several of the typical value priced retailers for all of the expected anchors square footage and we have others interested in more space than we have available.
We feel this is a wonderful project which minimizes our risk and highlights our new development platform's ability to create shareholder value.
As I indicated last quarter there is more activity in new development and our experienced team will continue to pursue select opportunities.
I'll now turn it over to Steve for the financial results.
Thanks Drew.
I'm happy to report that WI turned in another solid quarter.
Recurring FFO was a very strong $0.53 per diluted share for the quarter up from $0.51 in the third quarter last year.
FFO for the quarter benefited from improved commenced occupancy which increased by 50 basis points from the same quarter of the prior year and rental rate increases as well as a favorable impact of our ongoing debt refinancing.
Included in the quarter was a total of $0.02 per share from lease cancellation income and bad debt recoveries.
Dispositions cost us $0.03 per share of FFO compared to the third quarter of 2013.
In the fourth quarter we estimate that dispositions will cost us an additional $0.02 to $0.03 per share compared to the third quarter of this year.
We acknowledge the drag on the growth in FFO or as we've called it before the short term paying for long term gain but we're excited about our transformed portfolio in the improved operating metrics it's producing especially the strong same property NOI growth.
Reported FFO for the second quarter increased $0.52 per share from $0.49 per share in 2013.
Included in the 2014 amount was about a penny per share of debt cost write-offs while 2013 included $0.02 per share of impairments.
Turning to the balance sheet at quarter end the company's net debt to EBITDA was a solid 5.5 times down about 10% from the third quarter of 2013.
Net debt plus preferred to EBITDA was 5.9 times and debt to total market cap decreased to 33.2%.
Clearly the primary driver of this improvement is a reduction of our debt with the net proceeds from our capital recycling initiative.
With the highly competitive acquisitions and new development markets our disposition has greatly exceeded our reinvestment activity resulting in a net reduction in leverage.
Also contributing to our improved balance sheet metrics is the monetization of our land held inventory.
Since the beginning of the year we have sold $7.1 million of land and transferred another $5.5 million to operations that will become income producing.
We currently have over 10 million under contract to sell.
So we expect to continue to make progress reducing the land held inventory.
During the quarter we redeemed the remaining $90 million of 8.1% bond grew significant refinancings and restructuring of debt over the last few years we've totally transformed our balance sheet and are well positioned for growth opportunities as they arise.
As to 2014 guidance given our strong performance year-to-date we are raising guidance for recurring FFO from a range of $1.95 to $2.01 per share to a range of $2.01 to $2.03 per share.
Additionally we are increasing our disposition guidance from $300 million to $400 million to a range of $350 million to $450 million.
All of the guidance details are included on Page 9 of our supplemental.
Johnny? Thanks Steve.
It was another great quarter.
Same property NOI was 3.8%.
Leasing velocity was significantly higher than a year ago.
Occupancy increased to 94.9%.
Sharp occupancy is over 89% up 50 basis points in the quarter.
Our rent growth for new leases was over 20% and the company's capital recycling effort continues to transform our portfolio.
We're operating in an environment today with a slowly recovering economy modest retailer demand and many conflicting signals.
But the dominant influence is the lack of new supply.
New construction is one-third of what it was in 2005.
Even if new development accelerated dramatically today it would take three years for that supply to hit the market.
So our expectation is we will enjoy more negotiating leverage in the next several years.
We have a great portfolio and it continues to get better with our recycling efforts.
75% of our NOI is in shopping centers with a grocery store component.
77% of our NOI comes from national and regional operators and our supermarkets average $558 per square foot in sales.
That's an increase of 21% since we began the transformation.
Our same property NOI for the quarter was 3.8%.
Base minimum rent which is by far the most critical component was up 3.6%.
Just a reminder we should a breakout of the components of same property NOI on Page 26 of the supplemental.
Occupancy increased to 94.9% up 50 basis points from a year ago and I think we still have room to increase occupancy into the 96% range.
You'll note the spread between signed and commenced occupancy increased to 250 basis points this quarter.
This is a result of some of the box repositioning we talked about over the last couple of quarters.
This is a great pipeline for future revenue growth.
We saw a dramatic increase in shop occupancy this quarter.
It was up to 89.1%.
That's an increase of 50 basis points from last quarter.
About half of the improvement in shop occupancy is the result of the dispositions over the quarter.
But that still leaves a very healthy increase for small space generated through increased leasing.
Our platform provides an incredibly efficient process for leasing to shop tenants.
We have a short tenant friendly lease that can be executed in 24 hours or less and have a key in the store owners pocket the next day.
We're also very friendly to third-party brokers who can get paid within days.
They're motivated to bring their clients to us.
During the quarter we leased 126 new spaces and 167 renewals.
Combined that represented $18.1 million in annual base minimum rent.
New leases represented a little over 515 000 square feet the most we've leased in any quarter since 2010.
Leasing production increased across the entire footprint Our rent growth was outstanding during the quarter.
New leases increased 20.3% and renewals were up 9.5%.
That's an average of close to 13% for all transactions during the quarter.
At least as exciting is over 80% of all our new leases had increases.
You won't be surprised to hear that Texas had the best increases at 23% for new leases.
But we made good progress in California with increases of 11%.
That's very good as California is not quite back to peak rental rates and has more runway for growth.
As for capital recycling we sold 11 shopping centers and two pads for a total of $121 million during the quarter including six properties we sold subsequent to the quarter we disposed off $277 million of assets year-to-date.
As of today we have an additional $192 million under contract or with a signed Letter of Intent.
Some of these will slip but you can see it's a full pipeline.
We're seeing a very strong demand for non-core assets with cap rates in the range of 6.5% to 8%.
These cap rates of 50 to 75 basis points lower than 18 months ago.
CMBS debt is plentiful and buyers are getting 70% to 75% loan to value at raise around 4%.
It's a good time to be a seller.
As for acquisitions we've remained disciplined.
We have two centers under contract now.
Combined they would represent over $90 million.
We're working through our due diligence so there's no guarantee we'll close but we do feel optimistic.
For great quality assets we're seeing cap rates in the range of 4.75% to 6%.
And it's not unusual to see 10 to 15 bidders for A assets so it continues to be very competitive.
Our redevelopment initiative is going well as we look to create value in our existing portfolio.
We have a list of active redevelopments on page 11 of the supplemental.
Since last quarter our investment in active projects increased from $44 million to $61 million.
We started construction of four new projects including adding a free-standing building at West Hill and a new Whole Foods at Westchase Shopping Center.
Both of those assets are in Houston.
At River Point in Colorado Karnes opened last weekend and we signed a lease with Sportsman's Warehouse and expect to have them open next year.
The redevelopments under construction today average returns around 10% to 15%.
Over the last several years we've completed around $30 million to $40 million annually and I would expect 2015 to be at the top of that range.
So again a great quarter highlighted our outstanding operating metrics and a transformed portfolio continuing to improve.
Drew? Thanks Johnny.
It was a really good quarter.
Our transformation is nearly complete and the portfolio is producing the kind of results that we expected.
We posted outstanding operational results evidenced by stellar same property NOI growth and strong rent growth.
Occupancy continues to increase with strong demand for the little remaining space in our high-quality shopping centers.
Accordingly we've produced good FFO growth despite the significant disposition headwinds.
We're pleased with the progress we've made in new development and redevelopment and we're well positioned for future investment with the strongest balance sheet we've had in years.
This was a great quarter and we're confident that our transform portfolio will enable us to continue this solid performance going forward.
I'm proud of our team and all of our accomplishments.
Great people great properties and a great platform equals great results.
I thank you all for joining in the call today and for your continued interest in Weingarten.
And with that operator we'll be happy to take questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question and answer session.
(Operator instructions) Our first question here comes from Ms.
Christy McElroy from Citigroup.
Pease go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone.
Johnny just a question on disposition timing in terms of what you still have under contract pretty meaningful at almost $200 million you talked about some of that slipping into 2015.
Can you just provide some additional color on expected timing for those deals to close and I know Drew mentioned about $125 million to $150 million of dispositions expected in 2015.
Is that slippage included in that range? And what do you expect for acquisitions and development spend next year? Just trying to get a sense for where net investment is expected to shake out.
Yeah good morning Christy.
Its really difficult to say we have third parties who have these properties under contract.
Some of these assets that we're selling have issues and thats kind of why were selling them and they are generally less sophisticated buyers.
So weve had some issues in terms of the timing and things continuing to get pushed back.
My expectation is -- will be towards the middle of our range by the end of the year around $400 million a little bit over $400 million and that what slips into next year will be included in the $150 million to $200 million that weve talked about.
So Christy its Drew.
Good morning.
So when we talk about next year being a more normal year at $125 million to $150 million I think if we are successful and very little slips then wed be more like the $125 million and if there is some leftover then wed be a little closer to the $150 million.
As far as your question about acquisition and development both remain very competitive but we do expect to be certainly not in a net negative capital mode.
So we will be looking to invest capital both in acquisitions new development and redevelopments after we finish the transformation at the end of this year.
And thank you.
Our next question here comes from Jay Carlington from Green Street Advisors.
Please go ahead sir.
Right thank you.
So I guess on the NOI guidance we're trending at three to seven year date and implying you need something I guess sub two just for the midpoint to be a possibility and I know Johnny youve mentioned in the past about some Office Depots and their Randalls closing potentially in the back half.
So Im just trying to figure out how that lower half of the guidance is possible with just two months left in the year?  Excuse me Jay this is Steve.
The same property we didnt change our guidance.
I think part of that is around the fact that we have some headwind and we've signaled that historically with things like Randalls and so forth at our Westchase Center here in Huston that we have some box repositionings that will cause that.
But probably the biggest thing is just the mix and the disposition program and knowing exactly where that will wind up.
So -- and when you get to the bottom end of the range its really a function of the items that we talked about in the prepared remarks is that we had a couple cents a share from the cancelation income and we had and bad debt recoveries but again its driven off of the disposition program.
Okay.
Hey Jay just to kind of make sure that's clear I think our general expectation is that the fourth quarter same property NOI is going to be somewhere between 2.5 to 3.5.
So there is no change in our outlook or anything like that.
I think we were just a little bit concerned about the mix of the dispositions and so things are still good.
Okay thats helpful.
On the acquisitions I guess back in Q1 we had $42 million on the contract now were I guess we are sitting at you said two projects with $90 million.
So is that a drag from Q1 or are you I think it's changing where bidding is getting a little aggressive so just trying to see what is taking I guess so long to close on some of these deals? Jay thats a good question.
The fact is we had a deal to fill out in the due diligence that was in Q1.
The two deals that we have currently were not under contract at that time.
There is one of the things that we are working on thats particularly difficult and could fall into next year.
Okay.
And maybe just a quick follow-up just any idea where the cap rate ranges on those two deals? I think A assets generally are running 4.75% to 5.75% and certainly it's within that range.
Okay.
Thank you.
And thank you.
Our next question here comes from Mr.
Craig Schmidt from Bank of America.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
I was wondering what are the cap rates on some of the more recent dispositions? Craig generally running 6.5 to 8 as I think you know the Village Arcade closed this quarter it was about half of the quarterly disposition number that ended up closing for about 8.5 cap rate.
So the balance of this stuff began as more in the mid to high 7s Okay.
And have you seen that market tighten up with the aggressive transaction market? Craig we have definitely seen it tighten up probably 50 basis points over the last 12 months CMBS debt is incredibly plentiful and willing to lend on what seems to be risky projects.
And the reason you've accelerated the dispositions is it because of that competitive market or is it focused more on improving the balance sheet? Craig theres obviously a lot of benefits to accelerate in the disposition.
I think the primary reason is its a good time to be a seller of those assets right now.
Agree thanks a lot.
Thanks.
And thank you.
Our next question comes from Ki Bin Kim from SunTrust Robinson please go ahead.
Thanks.
First I just want to clarify I might have missed this so the $200 million dispositions that you have slated for sale plus another 125 for 2015 for 325? And second question just want to turn to your TI disclosure it seems like this quarter you were able to obtained pretty good lease spreads 20% plus on new leases.
But you did see a nice jump in TI spending for that.
I was just curious on what the duration looked like for the leases that you signed if it was your typical five-year lease or if that was longer than usual? Good morning.
It's Drew here.
So on the dispositions what we're trying to articulate is we're raising our guidance for 2014 to a range of $350 million to $450 million and as Johnny said earlier there are a lot of variables and a lot of timing that our best estimates are a bit -- will be right around the $400 million.
And therefore I talked about disposition guidance for next year consistent with the normalized range that we've talked about at the New York Analyst Day and lot of other times of somewhere around $125 million with the possibility that it could be $125 million to $150 million next year depending upon which deals might slip and how long they slip into 2015.
So certainly as time goes on we'll update everybody with those numbers and how good progress that we are making on the transformation goes but thats the big picture of how we see it today.
Hey Ki Bin this is Johnny.
On your question on the TI really important factor is the blend of the boxes in the shops.
For this quarter about 60% of the space that we leased were boxes and one of those was the Whole Foods that is replacing the Randall Store.
The TI for that space alone was $80.
It's still incredibly accretive to our NAV so it's a good deal.
Also like you said the boxes tend to have a longer duration.
Our hope is going to be 20 years in most of your junior anchors are going to be 10 to 15 years.
So you do have a little bit longer to amortize that TI.
So for the quarter the boxes leases were about $43 a square foot and the shop leases were about $1 150 square foot.
So the blend of that is significant and kind of where you end up.
Now I would think it does move around a little bit but I would think somewhere around the flip of that 40 on the boxes and 60 on the shop space is a more normal production run.
Okay.
Thank you.
And thank you.
Our next question here comes from Carol Campbell from Hilliard Lyons.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
In our small shop space what tenants are you seeing that are signing the most leases? Good morning Carol.
We've pretty much seen the same tenants we've seen over the last several years mostly internet resistant operations.
QSRs medical grocery stores discount ready to wear health and fitness and service tenants.
It's pretty much the same cast of characters.
It's been I think a generally modest demand but it's been pretty steady over the last several years.
Okay.
And are you starting to see any pick up in the mom and pop tenants or are they possibly improving but you have so much demand from the national regional.
You dont need the necessarily signed leases with them.
Carol our portfolio today is certainly much more suited for the national and regional tenants and I think you can see that in the percentage of occupancy that they have.
We did see a marked increase in the activity with the mom and pops this quarter and certainly there is a place for them in our portfolio and we have some centers that theyre going to be really good in.
So we're pretty excited about that actually.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And thank you.
Our next question comes from Jeff Donnelly from Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning guys.
Just maybe a question for Drew and for Johnny on your NOI outlook.
Year to date obviously same store NOI is running pretty strong I think Drew you mentioned a lack of supply growth and ideally you're making changes to enhance the portfolio.
So maybe Drew despite your conservatism is it possible that same store NOI could hold in sort of a range of 3.5% to 4% over the next year or two just on a run rate bases.
Because it's hard to see how the demand supply fundamentals are going to change?  Good morning Jeff.
It's certainly possible.
We had outstanding rent growth this year -- this quarter.
There is a lot of factors that go into it.
There is a very little new supply.
There is very good demand.
There was a great rent growth but we've also been clear about the short term pain and the long term gain and we want to continue to invest to maximize long-term shareholder value.
So sometimes that means playing little tough negotiations with some of the tenants who are a litter weaker today and then any quarter specifically we could have some headwinds but the bigger picture fundamentals are really very strong.
We are extremely pleased with the rent growth numbers some of the best numbers we can ever remember seeing and while there are lot of factors and extraneous events in the economy that are out of control and we dont have the ability to predict generally things for our recession resilient supermarket anchored portfolio in the markets that we are in are pretty good.
So yes we are very optimistic about the future but we always want to keep the expectations under control.
Jonny any other thoughts on that subjects.
No.
It's good.
And then just as a follow-up.
Johnny whats the appetite been like first space at this point mean obviously a lot of easy vacancies have been filled in the last few years and I think rents are edging higher but retail sales generally have been sluggish in the last 12 months.
Are you seeing retailer may be begin to flinch on their appetite for new stores or maybe there are new stores as they think about '15 and '16 or is it really just too early to say? Yeah.
Jeff one of the things that I said in the prepared remarks is we're seeing a lot of conflicting information sales one month or one quarter are better and then go down and consumer confidence is up and down.
Ill say that the retailer demand again most of the people we're dealing with are public companies or national companies regional companies and they have pressure to grow and there is demand from those folks they are being more flexible on sizes on frontage on the way the store ends up and I think the leverage continues to move toward the landlord.
So I think that generally we are in a good place.
We certainly did not keep all of our best space till the end but we have good centers certainly better centers than we had a year or two three years ago and I think that we are in good shape with being able to lease the space.
I think it's towards 96%.
So I think we are moving forward.
Thanks.
Thanks Jeff.
And thank you.
Our next question here comes from Jeremy Metz from UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
I just wanted to go back to a prior question about same store NOI in the midst of dispositions impacting result? I guess I would have thought that you were selling some of the lower growth assets and if anything you would see a boost from the sales am I getting completed am I thinking about this wrong? Jeremy I can certainly understand how we would think that but what happens in a lost of these assets is we've leave some space and moved occupancy to probably the highest level it's been at in a couple of years so there is definitely a pickup in same store NOI on some of the assets that we're selling because some of the spaces were more recently leased and thats the factor that we're seeing.
For the most part try not to lease spaces that have a lot of vacancy but we are trying to sell shopping centers with a lot of vacancy but we're trying to do is move the vacancy up and then sell them and thats where the mix or the blend of what we end up selling for the year could impact us.
Okay.
And then Johnny I think in your opening remarks you mentioned California not quite being back to peak and therefore having more room for growth.
Can you just give some color on which of your markets are in a similar position versus those where rents are now above prior peaks? Jeremy I would say that for the most part the research we've done the information we've seen would tell me that most of California is generally at around 80% of peak.
And I think what we are seeing in many other markets Florida Texas is that we're really back to the peak years.
So I feel good.
Certainly the peak was much higher in California than it was in Texas or Florida but generally there is some room for growth in those rents in the coming year.
Okay.
And just one last quick one.
On the acquisitions you have under contract can you just tell us what the growth profile is on those or how you source those? Thank you.
Yes Jeremy generally what we've said is we're looking for great shopping centers that have 3% or more NOI growth a year.
certainly these assets will meet that criteria and one of the properties was off market and one of them was in a general bid process.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jim Sullivan from Cowen.
Please go ahead.
I am sorry Mr.
Sullivan you line is now open for your question.
Please go ahead.
Mr.
Sullivan if your phone is muted please un-mute it for me.
I am sorry our next question here will come from Rich Moore from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
On the joint venture portfolio that you have I noticed a couple I guess three assets sales in the quarter.
What is going on in the portfolio I guess more broadly? Are those assets sales part of an initial move to maybe on wind some of these ventures or was it just something happened this quarter.
Hi Rich.
How are you this morning? I think they are more isolated circumstances.
Several of the ventures that we have there is a desire to call out some of the assets.
Generally I think over time those JVs will kind of continue to sell off assets but I don't see anything that would be immediate or anything that would be impactful.
Okay.
So mostly stable Johnny Yeah.
Okay.
And then the second thing Christy asked about the size of maybe your starts next year and the development pipeline and I was kind of curious you have a 125 roughly million of projects underway right now in terms of development not redevelopment and I am curious if that sort of level call those your 14 starts if you will if that sort of level is what we should expect for '15 or if gets bigger than that.
And as part of that I am little curious about Dallas and Houston in particular because as you guys mentioned they're very very strong markets.
Last I checked you guys are pretty dominant in those markets but we're not seeing any developments coming out of Weingarten in those markets yet and I am curious if maybe those are places where we start to see some developments.
Good morning Rich.
A lot of good question in there so let me attempt to address all of that.
We're certainly hopeful and plan to continue to find good quality development at about the pace that we've produced over the last year year and half and would hope to continue to ramp that up as things get better.
We're going to stay disciplined about what we do and we are as I've said a couple of times starting to see the very beginnings of more discussion about realistic rent.
So we'll remain active across our entire footprint that 25 markets where we look for things.
As you say Texas is really really strong and in Houston particular as we talked about in New York last December for the good quality infill sites where we want to be located in all our markets the land is just so expensive principally driven by a lot of the multifamily people and office people who can go multistory.
So we love Houston we love Texas.
We have a lot of good property here.
We would love to add to it but we're going to stay disciplined and it can be very competitive here given the multistory nature of particularly the multifamily guys.
Okay.
Got you Drew.
Thank you.
So as a follow-up to that real quick to fund these developments if you guys are going to do additional projects [assuming] (ph) you probably will the line of credit Steve has $260 million on a disposition sort of clear that or is there something else you need to do in anticipation of using that line for developments going forward? Good morning Rich.
No I think that right now as you noted the line has some balance on it but we would expect by the end of the year or shortly after the first of the year given the timing of those dispositions that it will pretty much clear out the line and have that available.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you guys.
(Operator Instructions) Our next here is from Jim Sullivan from Cowen and Group.
Please go ahead sir.
Yes hi sorry about that earlier.
I got called away.
I have a question for you Johnny in terms of the internal growth rate.
You had talked about the pretty impressive spreads in Texas in the quarter and obviously you had mentioned quite a bit as being very strong.
When you think about your three largest markets Texas California and Florida I wonder and I know that you don't get sales productivity by your tenants or from your tenants but obviously you're talking with your tenants all the time when they talk about their business in those three locations is there a significant difference in terms of productivity growth an appetite for space kind of number one.
And number two as you think about that going forward any opportunity for maintaining or maybe even expanding the spreads I am not sure if that's possible.
How do you come down? Do you think this internal growth rate just that you had has been obviously robust in Texas is going to be complemented by robust growth in California and Florida? Yes thanks Jim and good morning.
It is interesting when I look at the sales productivity of grocery stores particularly in Texas and then I would say Florida and then California our properties are dominated by super grocer called ATB and they are far more productive than any other super market.
So our vision what we see in our shopping centers is this incredible supermarket that's doing $750 million or $1 000 a square foot.
And when you compare that to Florida we have a lot of public stores de $500 to $600 a square foot again very very good.
Some of them do more.
California tends to do lower volumes on a square foot basis but I think has a lot better margin because they have a lot less competition.
When you look at the other retailers the junior boxes I would tell you they probably do it's probably a similar situation they probably do more sales and Texas and Florida and do better margin in California.
But thats very generalized and specific locations are going to all be different.
But are you saying that or is it your sense Johnny that the productivity change year-over-year has been stronger perhaps in Texas because of everything that's happing with the economy than it has been in Florida and California.
In another ways the productivity growth has lagged or it just hasnt cut up with how robust it is in Texas and the other two big states Florida and California.
That's probably right.
I dont think it's absolutely clear that thats right but I think that is probably right because again I just want to say this you can't underestimate how powerful ATB is in the supermarket.
The grocers we have generally in Texas to do very well and they're not in California or well I guess they're either in Florida but not in California so it's difficult to really compare one grocer pursuit to another.
We had a question for Drew in terms of development I mean Drew youve been through a few cycles and where disposition cap rates are with the robust demand on disposition side and obviously where interest rates are in terms of how that impacts your thinking about development yields do you does that lower your hurdle rate in terms of what you want to do for or what you are willing to do in terms of development as to your initial going in yield.
Good morning Jim yes I have been through a quite a few cycles and my father is across the table for me laughing since he has been through even more.
What we look at and what we've built the company for all these years over is the risk reward.
As mentioned we're in a lot of different market.
So there is different risks and different rewards in the different markets.
Generally speaking as we've articulated we think around a 200 basis point spread to the estimated exit cap rate is a fair return for the risk associated with new development.
Thats a number we feel comfortable sharing with our major tenant relationship partners in a development thats a number we obviously feel comfortable talking about to investors so around 200 basis points.
Now that can move down in a market like a Washington DC where you can take a lot of risk off with a good pre releasing effort because the entitlement process is going to be so long as you -- if you can control the property without a lot of money and if we gotten into something more speculative we want more.
So as I've mentioned in a couple of calls and I want to try to articulate this as best I can we have over the last few quarters seen more activity more discussions in talking to our experts in the field.
There is more conversation at the different meanings in our different global meanings that more and more tenants are willing to step up and pay the rents necessary for our new development.
So we're encouraged about that.
As Johnny mentioned in his prepared remarks there is still a shortage of new space and we think the operating leverage and the negotiating leverage that we'll have with tenants will be very good for a very long time because even if massive new projects started next week it will still take us about three years for them to come on online.
So while there is lot of stuff going on in the world and as Johnny said a lot of mixed singles we feel very good our portfolio our footprint of quality of our tenant's etcetera and are optimistic about some amount of good new risk adjusted development opportunities going forward.
Okay.
Then final question for me the price of oil again youve seen the price of oil rise and fall over time and when you think about the impact on your portfolio I guess $80 price of oil may moderate some of the growth we're seeing in Houston on the other hand of course it's really good for the consumer.
So how do you think about the price of oil and the impact it might have on what's been exceptional growth in Houston for a while here? Yes and that's a great question.
If you think about a little bit big picture oil prices are historically extremely volatile.
Over the last 30 years we've seen prices at $8 $9 a barrel.
Over the last 10 years we've seen prices below $50 a barrel.
There is a great article in the Wall Street Journal this morning Page 13-A that talks about how the production today is just so much more efficient.
The Houston economy is really strong added over 200 000 jobs in total over the last few years.
So things are really really good.
So in our view and we discuss this at our Board meeting a lot yesterday as long as energy prices don't fall really significantly and stay down that really low levels for a very long time we don't see a negative impact.
We have a great portfolio in Houston have had for a long time and the transformation makes it even stronger.
Went over a lot of it in New York in December last year and just remind everybody about 80% of our Houston NOI as we covered them comes from our key shopping centers in Houston where the incomes are about $120 000 a year so again very resilient properties with great supermarket.
So we remain bullish on Houston and Texas and are very comfortable with things.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
And we have one final question from Ms.
Christy McElroy from Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Hi just a follow-up on same store NOI growth you're up 3.7% year-to-date if you strip out the assets that youve sold or are selling in 2014.
What's the same store NOI growth of that remaining portfolio? So what would that have looked like without those assets? Yes Christy we do not go back and reconcile from one quarter to the next and when you get a final same property NOI a number from us we'll have that number for the assets that are in the same property pool at that time.
If you looked at the 3.7% number that we reported year-to-date is all that stripped out but again it's not really an average of the three previous quarters it will be the same property NOI of the assets that are in that pool currently.
So if I sold the shopping center last month it's let's say sold a shopping center this month.
It would have been in the pool for the first second and third quarter.
It will not be in the pool for the final number.
Great.
And just you talked about the disposition centers the lease up of those centers impacting the growth rate in the positive way I am just wondering sort of if you striped out those centers what the ongoing growth rate is of that remaining portfolio that will obviously translate into next year? Well the 3.7% is the current population and a number that we will report for the fourth quarter will be then current population.
So we're not -- we're not using any of the numbers historically if that makes sense.
I was just wondering if you dissect the portfolio in that way.
Yes.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And thank you.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I will now be turning the call back over to Mr.
Alexander for closing remarks.
Well thanks everybody for your interest.
I appreciate it.
Steve Johnny and Michelle will be at NAREIT in a couple of weeks and they look forward to seeing many of you.
We really appreciate your interest your interest in Weingarten this morning and generally and we're here if there are other questions later in the day or whenever.
So thanks again so much for your interest in Weingarten.
We appreciate it.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
Welcome to the Weingarten Realty's Fourth Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
My name is Brandon and I'll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn it over to Michelle Wiggs.
Michelle you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter 2014 conference call.
Joining me today is Drew Alexander President and CEO; Stanford Alexander Chairman; Johnny Hendrix Executive Vice President and COO; Steve Richter Executive Vice President and CFO; and Joe Shafer Senior Vice President and CAO.
As a reminder certain statements made during the course of this call are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
More information about these factors is contained in the company's SEC filings.
Also during this conference call management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as funds from operations or FFO both recurring and reported which we believe help analysts and investors to better understand Weingarten's operating results.
Reconciliation to these non-GAAP financial measures is available in our supplemental information package located under the Investor Relations tab of our Web site.
I will now turn the call over to Drew Alexander.
Thank you Michelle and thanks to all of you for joining us.
We are very pleased to report another great quarter with strong operating results that were made possible by the successful transformation of our portfolio over the last four years.
Before we talk more about the quarter and the year Id like to take this opportunity to recap the success of the strategic initiative we announced at our Investor Day presentation in April of 2011 as our transformation is complete.
Our plan was to transform the portfolio to one that generates strong growth over time and minimizes downturn volatility.
Since the beginning of 2011 weve sold $1.5 billion of non-core assets and reinvested 700 million in quality acquisitions and new development projects.
We performed a very comprehensive review of our assets to determine which assets we wanted to retain and those markets in which we wanted to expand.
We focused on assets that would grow in an acceptable rate in markets with significant barriers to entry and strong demographics where we had the critical mass to effectively lease and manage our properties.
After this review we began existing secondary and tertiary markets and selling assets in our targeted markets that didnt meet our growth requirements.
In May of 2012 we became the pure-play retail company by selling our industrial division.
We continue to execute our retail dispositions in a very methodical and discipline manner.
The majority of our non-core assets were sold individually in fully marketed deals that maximize the value received creating the greatest benefit for our shareholders.
We did this during a period of declining cap rates where the spread between high quality assets and the assets we were selling was also narrowing again maximizing the benefit to our shareholders.
To frame the magnitude of this effort at January 1 2011 our retail portfolio of 312 properties generated annualized ABR thats average base rent of about 400 million.
The properties that weve sold represented approximately 20% of that total or 80 million of annualized ABR.
During this period we increased both our FFO per share and our dividend each year.
Let me illustrate the significance of this transformation with an individual example.
ABR is widely considered a proxy for quality.
Over the last four years the average base rent per square foot for the properties sold was $11.62 versus $19.80 for the properties acquired and the impact on this activity on the entire portfolio is equally impressive.
ABR for the whole portfolio went up by 19%.
You can see the full schedule of the portfolio transformation metrics on Page 41 of the supplemental.
Equally important weve transformed our balance sheet as Steve will cover in a minute.
Now let me switch gears to our new development activities.
We continued to make progress on our Hilltop development in D.C.
with Wegmans currently scheduled to open in June.
Were 94% leased and the commencement of rent will significantly accelerate in the latter half of the year.
This is a great development in a tremendous location that is a quality addition to our portfolio and an excellent example of how our team creates shareholder value.
At our Wake Forest development in the Raleigh market were 88% leased with Ross PETCO TJ Maxx and Michaels all signed.
Construction is well underway and should be substantially complete by the third quarter.
Our investment in the project will be about 16 million.
At Nottingham Commons our newest addition to the pipeline in White Marsh Maryland leasing is progressing nicely with several junior anchor deals well underway.
Demand for shop space is strong with several merchants already signed.
Upon completion this 138 000 square foot development should have an approximate investment of 45 million and 7.5% return.
The Whitaker our exciting infill project in West Seattle is also moving forward.
This six story mixed-use project is being co-developed with Lennar with our 63 000 square foot retail portion anchored by a 41 000 square foot Whole Foods.
Lennar has broken ground and anticipates delivering the retail portion to us in late 2016.
Our investment will be around 29 million.
We continue to see activity in new development and our experienced team will continue to pursue select opportunities.
Ill now turn it over to Steve to discuss our financial results.
Thanks Drew.
We ended a great year with a strong fourth quarter.
Recurring FFO was $0.51 per diluted share up from $0.48 in the fourth quarter of last year.
FFO for the fourth quarter benefited from a strong increase in same-property NOI of 3.6%.
FFO for the quarter also benefited from unanticipated bad debt and litigation recoveries as well as favorable expense from our insurance captive and positive debt refinancing activity primarily the redemption of our 8.1% bonds in September of 2014.
These increases were offset by the impact of our dispositions program which cost us $0.05 per share compared to the fourth quarter of 2013.
For the year recurring FFO was $2.05 per diluted share compared to $1.96 for 2013 an increase of 4.6%.
We are really proud of these results especially when one considers that dispositions cost us $0.14 per share of FFO when compared to the prior year.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We have continued to strengthen our financial position this quarter by using our disposition proceeds to reduce debt.
Since the beginning of the portfolio transformation in April of 2011 we have reduced our net debt to EBITDA from 6.67 times to 5.39 times our net debt plus preferreds to EBITDA from 7.96 times to 5.81 times and our debt to total market cap from 43.2% to 30.2% at December 31 2014.
At the same time we have significantly improved our maturity schedule with the maturities in any future year no greater than 305 million.
Our reduced leverage well-laddered maturity schedule and simplified corporate structure are attractive to the investment community and we are very well positioned for future growth a very successful transformation.
As to 2015 we are providing guidance for both recurring and reported FFO in accordance with NAREITs definition.
Guidance for recurring FFO is $2.12 to $2.17 per diluted share.
This assumes acquisitions ranging from $200 million to $250 million and dispositions of 125 million to 175 million.
We have also forecast new development investment in the range of $50 million to $100 million and we expect incremental FFO of $0.06 per share from our new development completions in 2015.
I would also add that we are negotiating a five-year $200 million term loan which we expect to close in the first quarter.
Also in the first quarter we expect to close a 10-year extension of $66 million secured loan which will reduce interest expense in 2015 by almost $0.02 per share.
This refinancing will include a prepayment penalty of $0.05 per share.
Taking into account the $0.05 penalty our guidance for reported FFO is $2.07 to $2.12 per share.
All the details of our guidance are included on Page 9 of our supplemental.
Johnny? Good morning.
We ended a great year with another strong quarter highlighted by 3.6% same-property NOI 95.4% occupancy 11.2% rent growth historically low tenant fallout consistent leasing velocity the sale of 14 non-core shopping centers and the acquisition of the Scottsdale Horizon shopping center in Phoenix Arizona.
Overall we continue to see a retail market dominated by the lack of new supply.
Retailer sales are mixed but supermarkets seem to continue to grow sales.
Weingarten supermarkets today average over $560 a square foot.
That translates to about 80 000 customers coming into our shopping centers every month.
Shop occupancy increased to 89.8% at the end of the quarter an increase of 70 basis points from the third quarter.
The overall occupancy was up 95.4% up 50 basis points from last quarter.
I anticipate that our occupancy will remain in a range of 20 to 30 basis points of where it is today through 2015 before it eventually increases to above 96% by the end of 2016.
During the fourth quarter we posted solid same-property NOI growth of 3.6%.
This included a very impressive 3.1% growth in base minimum rent for that same-property pool.
We had strong growth for most of our regions with Las Vegas and Florida producing the highest mostly as a result of new lease commencements.
Over the last three years Weingarten has averaged same-property NOI growth of 3.9%.
Thats part of what we mean when we talk about great results.
While 2015 same-property NOI will be comping against a series of very strong numbers we feel good about our guidance of 2.5% to 3.5%.
We have built in rent increases that will produce an average of 1% to 1.25% growth and we also know increasing commenced occupancy will continue to contribute same-property NOI growth through 2015.
Today we have about 500 000 square feet of space that is signed and not commenced.
That translates to a 170 basis point spread between signed and commenced which represents $8.5 million of revenue on an annualized basis.
Most of that is in the same-property pool and will commence in the second half of 2015.
Rent growth will also continue to be a positive impact on same-property NOI.
We ended the quarter with an increase of 11.2%.
That was 11.4% for renewals and 10.4% for new leases.
As occupancy increases we continue to gain leverage with tenants in need of new space.
Its important to remember that even in Houston this recovery for retail properties has mostly been driven by the lack of new construction.
That continued limited supply will be a significant factor offsetting the impact of lower oil prices.
We expect 2015 rent growth for the company to be in the 10% to 15% range.
Leasing remains consistent.
We leased 283 spaces for about 1 million square feet during the fourth quarter.
That includes 97 new leases for 300 000 square feet.
This is about the same square footage as the fourth quarter a year ago.
Given our declining vacancy and the historically low fallout its good to still be able to maintain a steady leasing velocity.
Our redevelopment program continues to build.
Today we have 13 shopping centers in various stages of redevelopment and expect to spend a total of $67 million on those projects over the next couple of years producing a return around 12%.
The specifics of those projects are listed on Page 11 of the supplemental.
Our capital recycling program continues to transform the portfolio.
During the fourth quarter we sold 14 non-core shopping centers and four land parcels for $166 million.
These included two closed supermarkets two independent supermarkets a trade school and a shadow-anchored center.
For the year we sold five centers in Louisiana six centers in small towns in Texas and six properties located in Houston.
As youve heard the transformation is complete but in future years we will continue to weed out about 2% to 3% of properties at the lower end of our portfolio.
During the fourth quarter we finalized the purchase of Scottsdale Horizon in North Scottsdale Arizona for almost $44 million.
The property is anchored by Safeway and CVS.
A three-mile demographics show an average household income of $120 000 and college educations around 65%.
We expect to grow the NOI for the property around 3% a year.
As Steve mentioned earlier our acquisition guidance for 2015 is $200 million to $250 million.
We will remain disciplined and we have not loosened our underwriting standards.
Were seeing deal flow and a competitive environment similar to 2014 but we started the year with a strong pipeline of great properties under contract.
Weve already closed on Baybrook Gateway shopping center and have two other properties under contract.
These three assets would represent close to $146 million.
Obviously no guarantees but the pending transactions are looking pretty good right now.
Baybrook is a great location south of downtown with strong demographics.
It services the Clear Lake super zip.
The center is across Interstate 45 from Baybrook mall which is one of the top malls in Houston.
The mall is owned by General Growth and has sales around $750 a square foot.
Traffic counts are very high 350 000 cars a day.
The property had been held by a special servicer for a couple of years and occupancy is only 65%.
We bought this property for a cap rate around 5% on the existing NOI but we plan within a couple of years to move the return into the high 7s.
We have lots of tenant interest for Baybrook so this redevelopment is going to be fun.
Were competently looking forward to 2015.
We have a great portfolio and a seasoned team to meet the challenges ahead of us.
Drew? Thanks Johnny.
The main items I want to address in my closing remarks concern the decrease in oil prices.
A lengthy period of low energy prices would undoubtedly have a cooling effect on the Houston economy and depending upon the duration would result in significant job losses in the energy sector.
But Houston is not all about energy.
We have the largest medical center in the world with 55 different member institutions and tremendous planned growth.
We have the second largest port in the United States.
There are major capital investments underway there as growth is expected with the widening of the Panama Canal in 2016.
A large part of the Houston energy industry is chemicals and other downstream products.
This part of the energy business thrives on lower oil prices.
Given the percentage of the Houston economy related to energy is much less than in the 80s we feel our portfolio will be fine through this period.
At WRI we experienced the major downturn in Houston in the mid-80s and a couple of less significant downturns in the 90s in the 2000s.
Our occupancy has never fallen below 90%.
Further there are few key differences I would like to point out.
First in 1985 71% of our ABR thats average base rent was in Houston.
Today its 16%.
The extent of our geographic diversification driven by the transformation is not fully appreciated even by some who follow us.
More importantly the quality of the centers that make up that 16% is far superior to the portfolio we had even as little as five years ago also due to the transformation.
Today 80% of our Houston ABR is in what we term our key centers which are shown on our Web site the majority of which serves super zips.
To quantify the strength of these centers the average household income for these properties is nearly 30% higher than the average for the Houston CBSA and the percentage of college graduates is nearly 50% higher.
Comparatively little new space has been built or is planned to compete with these centers.
As weve highlighted in our presentation the land prices are just too expensive near most of our centers for competitive retail properties.
Additionally about 80% of our merchants in Houston are national and regional retailers today with significantly fewer mom and pop tenants.
However the mom and pop tenants we have in our Houston portfolio have operated in our centers for an average of nine years.
Bottom line for us we have outstanding properties in Houston that provide necessity-based goods and services and were experienced in operating and downturns.
There will be some pain but we dont believe it will be significant.
We encourage all of you to plan a trip to Houston soon.
The weather is often great this time of year.
The rodeos coming the Rockets are doing pretty well.
Wed love to show you how strong our properties are in this market.
Looking ahead to 2015 we will focus on growing the cash flow and the NAV of the company through accretive acquisitions and new developments as well as our existing operations.
With our transformed portfolio and balance sheet were very excited about the future of WRI.
Id like to thank all of our associates for their efforts in completing the transformation and for our great results in 2014.
Id especially like to thank Patty Bender our Executive Vice President of Leasing who is retiring in a couple of months after over 33 years with WRI.
Many of you have met Patty at our Investor Day presentations and well miss her passion love of retail and dedication.
Patty has been a great mentor to many.
She developed a very talented team with a strong bench and Im confident we can divide her responsibilities and continue with our best-in-class platform.
Great people great properties and a great platform equals great results.
I thank all of you for joining the call today and for your continued interest in Weingarten.
Operator wed be happy to take questions.
Thanks Drew.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
From Citi we have Christy McElroy on line.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Steve you pointed out how far youve come in terms of leverage.
How do you view your current net debt to EBITDA 5.4? Is that a level that you plan to stay out longer term or is that a level that has some dry powder built in such that youd be comfortable increasing leverage as you transition to being a net acquirer and should the opportunity to invest capital arises? Good morning Christy.
Yes I think that we do have some dry powder in the current leverage position of the company.
We havent really given direct guidance in terms of where we want to be on net debt to EBITDA but I think clearly 75 basis points even to 6.5 quite frankly for time to time would be fine with us.
We clearly dont want to get back up in the 7 range.
But I think we do have some room right now to further lever up the company.
Okay.
And then Johnny with regard to acquisitions you talked about 146 million closed under contract.
It remains a competitive market but can you give us a sense for sort of average cap rates on those deals whether or not they were widely marketed? And what do you think gives you a competitive advantage in competing for deals today? Good morning Christy.
Ill answer the last part first.
One of the great things about the company is we have some great people in all of the regions.
And as we look at pro formas and develop pro formas for shopping centers we feel like were going to be in a position to drive the NOI higher which will enable us to pay a little bit more for some of the shopping centers that were looking at.
Weve consistently seen cap rates in the 4.75 to 5.5 range for stabilized returns on properties and generally thats the range of the properties that were looking at today.
Okay.
And then just lastly Drew you talked about the port of Houston.
What do you think the expansion there means for job growth in the Houston market? Its hard to say for sure.
Its interesting with all the turmoil in Long Beach but there are forecasts that it can be very transformative over say a five to seven-year period as more and more goods would come from Asia through the Panama Canal up to Houston and then connect into the railways and the newly expanded Interstate 69 and really cover a huge portion of the country.
So it is something that isnt going to start having an impact really until next year and its hard to forecast exactly but it could be pretty significant.
Thanks so much guys.
From UBS we have Jeremy Metz on the line.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
In the opening remarks you talked about looking at some interesting new development opportunities.
I was just wondering is this stuff within your existing land bank or are you looking at taking down any new land and have you seen an increase in anchors looking for new development? Good morning.
This is Drew.
Things continue at a moderate pace.
Were certainly going to stay disciplined.
I dont see us buying big parcels of land in suburban areas especially unless theres huge density and I especially dont see us buying big parcels without a lot of preleasing done very sensitive to entitlement risk.
The supermarkets remain interested anchors as well as the value-oriented retailers; Ross and Marshalls.
So we are looking at our existing platform and properties and have several things highlighted in our redevelopment where were building different phases as well as active across the 25 markets in the 10 or 12 states that we look at.
So seeing some things there.
Well stay disciplined but I think weve continue to add modestly to our pipeline.
Okay.
And then in terms of the Office Depot/Staples merger I think combined you have close to 2% of revenues there.
Have you had any discussions yet with them or what are your expectations about the stores you have in the portfolio? Good morning Jeremy.
Im looking at this thing with my glass half full.
Over the last four years due to transformation process we sold 19 of the office supply stores.
Today weve got 35.
And the idea that we had a whole industry in disarray several years ago and this is being consolidated into one single strong entity I see as pretty positive.
We have 35 stores.
The maturities of those leases are spread out very nicely roughly five or six a year starting in 2016.
And even in 2016 the average rent is only about $11.85.
Weve got two that expired in '15.
One of them has already expired and weve leased that space in Roswell Georgia to fresh market.
And then throughout the rest of the next four or five years weve got five or six leases that expire.
So I think we can handle this in an orderly way.
Clearly theres a lot of good locations that theyll keep with us.
And Im looking at it in a pretty positive outlook.
And whats the mark-to-market on those spaces you have coming up just in the next 24 months? Yes we probably will make a little bit of money after capital but it wont be a whole lot but we certainly have got a number of eager leasing executives hopeful that they can get some space to lease.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
From Green Street we have Jay Carlington on line.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you.
Johnny I think last quarter you mentioned new lease spreads in Texas kind of outpacing the rest of your portfolio.
Is that still the case and maybe are there any other regional callouts of strength or weakness? Jay I will tell you that the whole portfolio has been very consistent.
And even in Texas the new leases the spreads have been outstanding.
We havent seen anything relative to a downturn in demand for this space either from renewals or new leases and its still pretty strong so we just havent seen anything at this point.
Okay.
Any other regional callouts strength or weakness and I think you mentioned California last quarter.
Yes its interesting.
It kind of goes up and down.
Las Vegas had an outstanding quarter altogether huge occupancy increases for commenced leases and in Atlanta also.
Atlanta has really picked up in terms of its overall operating metrics including the rent growth so were very encouraged by that.
Okay.
And you mentioned I guess your portfolio is getting contractual rent bumps in kind of 1 to 1.25.
Did any of that  I guess in your '14 leases did you get better rent bumps in those contracts? It was roughly the same.
On an annualized basis thats generally what were looking at is in that 1% to 1.25% range.
Okay.
And then just a quick last question.
What was the cap rate on that Scottsdale purchase? Did we disclose that? Not sure.
It was around 5.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
From SunTrust Robinson we have Ki Bin Kim on the line.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
You guys already mentioned a few things about Houston but I was wondering if you could touch on what you think cap rates are doing on a comparable basis for assets in Houston? I would have imagined just after taking into consideration just the risk factor for the uncertainty regarding oil prices that it would have to back up a little bit but maybe provide some color on that.
We havent seen a whole lot of upward movement for the good quality assets that we want to buy but you have to be right that it has to be out there.
I think that we will see it but I think for very good quality supermarket anchored centers in the dense infill where all of our properties are given that debt levels are still pretty cheap I dont think it will move up very much.
And you think it will move for maybe the lower quality? I dont want to say lower but -- I think there will be a widening for the lower quality and more suburban and things that are  new developments et cetera yes but for great supermarket anchored with good basic service tenants which is where we focus I dont think it will be that much.
Okay.
And this quarter you guys had a nice gain in small shop occupancy.
Just curious is most of that gain seasonal and how much of that carries forward in 2015? And I guess the last part of that is I know your portfolio has changed a lot but where do you think peak out at for small shop? Ki Bin I wouldnt describe it as seasonal.
Some of the movement in occupancy was the dispositions program.
Some of the properties we sold in the last quarter had a relatively low occupancy.
But I would say that was kind of normal leasing for the portfolio.
And Im sorry your other question was? Where do you think your portfolio could peak out at going forward? Yes.
I would say were talking to maybe 96.5% overall which would put us around 92% 93% in the shop space.
Okay.
All right thank you.
Thanks.
From Bank of America we have Craig Schmidt on the line.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Are you seeing any changes in transaction market or are you just looking harder to account for the increase in the pipeline in acquisitions relative to 2014? Good morning Craig.
Yes I would tell you that weve maintained a disciplined and I wouldnt say that were looking any harder.
I think what youre seeing in 2015 is some work that was pulled forward from 2014.
And we had some things that we hoped to close in 2014 that we did not and then I think we had a pretty quick hit with Baybrook.
But no I dont see any significant changes in the methodology or the process that were going through.
And will the acquisitions have sort of the opportunistic flavor that Baybrook has? Craig I think some of them will and I think some of them will just be strong assets that have great rent growth.
The big thing that were looking forward Craig is great properties that grow over a longer period of time.
And I think that will be the piece that youll continue to see in the properties that were buying.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thanks Craig.
From JPMorgan we have Michael Mueller on the line.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Just as you look out over the next few years how big do you think your development in the redevelopment pipeline could average in any given year? Mike its Drew good morning.
Thats a really difficult question for us to put a specific number on it.
As has been alluded by Johnny and Steve the whole purpose of the transformation was to switch to good quality assets that over an extended period of time would provide a very good risk adjusted return to shareholders.
So as you carry that down to the next level we certainly want to do as much redevelopment of our existing properties as we can and weve detailed what were working on in the supplemental and weve also detailed the sort of projects that are coming behind that that were trying to tee up.
Those returns are great.
When it comes to acquisitions development as Steve mentioned we got some dry powder.
We are looking to grow and the thing thats unique about us is were geographically focused in about 25 markets with our boots on the ground in those markets so we see a lot of the opportunities.
So its just a matter of finding the things that have the growth that Johnny mentioned.
So we got the financial capacity we got the human resources capacity.
Were going to stay disciplined so its finding those opportunities.
So it is hard to put a number on it but we certainly hope to grow the pipeline from where it is now.
But always want to keep a conservative balance sheet and keep our percentage of new development under control.
Got it.
I apologize if I missed this from before but Steve did you mention the size of the term loan or any rough pricing? $200 million on the term loan and we think it will be somewhere  the five-year deal will be on the LIBOR and well probably swap that back so were looking at across probably around 2.75.
Got it okay.
Thank you.
From RBC Capital Markets we have Rich Moore on the line.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Steve the debt extinguishment charge which quarter is that do you think? We think it will be in the first quarter.
It could roll to the very first part of the second Rich but were expecting Q1.
Okay great.
And why are you extending  its a mortgage that youre extending right so why are you extending that? Why not combine the balance on your line of credit with that mortgage and issue a bond to make it unencumbered and unsecure? Good question Rich.
Quite frankly it was a way for us to lock rates with no current  we didnt have a good use of proceeds to do an index level deal which in todays market is $250 million or more.
And given the dip in rates that we have seen over the last 90 days or so it was just a way for us to lock in and refinance and push those maturities out.
Okay all right good.
I got you.
And then I dont really understand the purpose of the term loan.
I mean why do that too? Quite frankly if you look at our maturity schedule were wide open to add a five and six-year kind of window.
And we just saw a great opportunity to go ahead and do a five-year deal versus doing a 10.
If you evaluate our business plan and project that forward and look at our maturities quite frankly towards the end of the year well get back to needing to do probably something with the bond market and we would have a 10-year transaction at that point.
Okay good.
Thanks.
And then the last thing Steve the recovery ratio went down and also you got rid of your OP units and Im curious on both of those what exactly happened there? The OP units purely that was  one of the unitholders have the option to put that back to us and we did eliminate that.
We did not issue shares.
We paid that off in cash with which we have the option to do.
In addition to that they were anti-dilutive this quarter.
It will reappear next quarter.
So youll see those units  I guess technically they didnt go away they just show up anti-dilutive but we did have a small amount that  we did redeem a small amount of them.
To your second question Rich having to do with the recovery ratios the fourth quarter actually had a little bit of unusual to it.
As we noted in the opening remarks we saw some benefit from our insurance captive so thats kind of going opposite of what here you saw.
We also had a utility issue with some water at one of the locations that kind of offset that.
And then the balance is really just the Q4 generally its a little bit of seasonality.
You see a little higher cost in Q4 but I would tell you if you look at the annual numbers its pretty much right on.
So I would tell you that Q4 was more seasonality than anything.
Okay great.
Thanks.
[Operator Instructions].
We do have Ki Bin Kim back on the line with a follow up.
Please go ahead.
Just a quick accounting question.
Does your NOI guidance include bad debt? Yes it does.
And is it a negative contribution in 2015 or a positive? Yes.
We actually have bad debt expense.
Okay.
So if Im understanding your question correctly it would be negative.
Yes year-over-year right? Correct.
Okay.
Just wanted to confirm that.
And is there any reason why your independent lease in commissions are not a part of what you consider capital expenditures? I know you guys provide a footnote but why is that accounted for separately? Its all non-cash.
Its built into the overhead.
I think its just really a nomenclature issue.
We just never called it capital expenditures but were giving people the number.
Okay.
I think we do consider it as part of capital.
We just break it out from the tenant finish and the other things that are more cash which we thought would have a more clear disclosure in our capital.
It is capitalized.
All right definitely.
Thank you.
From Capital One Securities we have Chris Lucas on line.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Johnny on the Roswell asset you talked about how you would swap out an office supply store with a fresh market.
Just curious as to what your thoughts are in terms of the cap rate differential between the asset before and after the change? Good morning Chris.
I certainly think its an improvement.
We had an office supply store that was competing actually with another store right down the street and we put in a supermarket thats going to bring in more people and continue to be a great offering to the community.
And then on the development framework I guess I was trying to get a sense as to if you think about over the next three years potential starts how much of the current land inventory  or let me think about it this way.
Of the new starts that you might think about how much do you think would be on the existing land inventory and how do you think has really got to be stuff that you look to acquire? Chris good morning its Drew.
I would say the majority will come from new stuff.
As you see the progress that weve made in the pipeline on redevelopments and expansions of projects in Sheraton Colorado Las Vegas I think that will continue at sort of similar-ish rates.
But I think the majority of it will come from new.
We are also as always in some cases working on some sales in some cases for retail and some cases for other uses.
So I think well continue to make progress on the land held as we have in past years.
But it is a multiyear effort and I think the majority of new stuff will be new sites.
Great.
Thank you.
From Wells Fargo we have Tammy Fique on the line.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
I was just wondering if you could talk about your plans for the preferred if you have any intentions of calling that this year? And then also if you could talk about the Baybrook redevelopment what your plans are for that particular asset? Good morning Tammy.
Ill take the first one on preferred.
Thats something we always look at refinancing opportunities and capital structure and so forth.
So I would tell you sure its on our radar screen but at this point in time we have no  its not in the business plan to call the preferred.
Tammy this is Johnny and Im glad you asked the question about Baybrook.
The center today has Michaels Cost Plus Barnes &amp; Noble La Madeleine and Jared good stores for all those folks.
Weve gotten 15 letters of intent that were discussing with people today talking to a couple of different supermarkets and several big boxes.
And I will tell you the lack of space in that area is unbelievable and weve got something thats a hot commodity right now in that market so were very excited.
If we could move that towards a supermarket-anchored shopping center that would be our first choice.
We dont know that we can do that and there might be some risks associated with the timing of it.
So were going to have to analyze that and try to determine how long that would take how long wed have to wait and then well make a decision if we just move forward with some other boxes.
But its going to be a fun exciting project.
And then do you think youll have to invest additional capital and I guess if you could just quantify that for us and then maybe talk about what your stabilized yield expectations are when thats all finished? Yes we definitely will invest additional capital and I mentioned that.
We had a 7% return on the property.
That is after all of the additional capital.
It really depends on where we end up with a supermarket or without a supermarket and how we combine some of the spaces.
It probably would be more in the 6.75 range if we ended up with a supermarket in our return but certainly our NAV would be improved if we did have a supermarket probably in the 7 range if we end up just doing all boxes.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then just one more.
I was wondering if you could give us a sense Steve for what youre expecting for G&amp;A expenses in 2015? Sure.
I think on a go-forward run rate 6.5 million to 6.75 million is probably what you should see on a quarterly run rate.
Okay great.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
We do have a follow up from Rich Moore.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
A couple quick more questions.
The disposition activity youve guided to about 150 million is that sort of the done-done with the transformation or is that something that we should probably expect annually as another hundred or so of dispositions as you guys kind of trim the bottom of a few percent? Rich its John again.
Were going to continue to trim along the way 2% to 3%.
I think that is going to be an ongoing proposition for us so I think you could continue to look at that 150 range over a period of time.
Okay good.
Thanks Johnny.
And then one last thing for you guys.
You gave us the guidance in both NAREIT and recurring FFO so how would you like to see it shown by the analysts? I mean theres always this debate going on on how to show it and for consistently we should all show it the same.
Would you rather see the recurring or the NAREIT this year as what we put out there? Rich its Steve.
I believe that we would prefer as Weingarten recurring only because thats the way we kind of run the business and thats the way we monitor ourselves.
However we understand that the noise given the earnings estimates and the way that it gets tracked by the various first call and so forth.
And we also understand that its not recurring is not NAREIT generated our guidance.
So look were just out there.
We think it makes sense to give both since with all the noise but I think on a go-forward basis quite frankly if you exclude debt penalties the numbers are going to be pretty close.
Okay all right good.
Thanks Steve.
I got you.
We have no further questions at this time.
I will now turn it back to Drew for closing remarks.
Thank you Brandon.
I want to thank everybody for their interest in Weingarten we appreciate it.
Well be around this afternoon if there are any other questions and well also be at a couple of conferences coming up and look forward to seeing many of you there.
Thank you so very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Weingarten Realty's First Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
My name is Brandon and I'll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn it over to Michelle Wiggs.
Michelle you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter 2015 conference call.
Joining me today is Drew Alexander President and CEO; Stanford Alexander Chairman; Johnny Hendrix Executive Vice President and COO; Steve Richter Executive Vice President and CFO; and Kristen Seaboch Divisional Vice President and Controller pulling in for Joe Shafer who is attending to online death in the family.
As a reminder certain statements made during the course of this call are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
More information about these factors is contained in the company's SEC filings.
Also during this conference call management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as funds from operations or FFO both recurring and reported which we believe help analysts and investors to better understand Weingarten's operating results.
Reconciliation to these non-GAAP financial measures is available in our supplemental information package located under the Investor Relations tab of our Web site.
I will now turn the call over to Drew Alexander.
Thank you Michelle and thanks to all of you for joining us.
We are very pleased to report another great quarter with strong operating results produced by our transformation portfolio of outstanding properties.
We had very solid same property NOI growth filled by higher rental rates increased occupancy and minimal tenant fall out.
Clearly our transformation is working.
Q1 overall has several accomplishments.
Under our previously announced ATM or at the market equity issuance program we began selling common shares in late February.
And to date have raised $40.8 million and an average price of $36.18 per share.
This issuance is in large part to finance the redemption of the last 150 million of our preferred shares.
We believe in selling the equity of both of our NAV [ph] and thus were comfortable issuing equity at this level.
Looking forward weve not seen any signs of increasing cap rates for quality assets and our progress in new development and our growing NOI will further improve our NAV.
Therefore given our current stock price well be extremely cautious about future equity issuance.
Turning to acquisitions weve closed three great purchases since the beginning of the year.
Each is a little different and demonstrates different areas of our strategy.
Baybrook Gateway is a redevelopment opportunity servicing a superzip on the south side of Houston.
This deal came together in literally a matter of weeks.
Our obvious knowledge of the market allowed us to move quickly in locking up this property.
Given strong tenant demand weve several redevelopment alternatives that may take a little while to sort out but this property represents a great near term redevelopment.
A different strategy applies to Cambrian Park Plaza in San Jose California.
This is a longer term redevelopment.
We plan to do some short term leases on this project as we formulate what we expect to be a significant redevelopment that we estimate is five plus years away.
This is great real estate that really cant be replicated where we will have multiple options to create significant value.
Finally we purchased Wellington Green Commons subsequent to quarter end.
This is simply a great course center anchored by Whole Foods with good NOI growth in a solid market with strong demographics.
Johnny will provide a little more color on each of these properties in a minute.
Looking ahead the acquisition markets remain extremely competitive.
Well stay focused on our target markets and remain disciplined and thorough.
As to dispositions as you know our major transformation is complete.
However as per our guidance we will sell select properties going forward.
Year-to-date weve sold six properties for about $45 million including exiting a small town in Texas and the disposition of our last property in Missouri.
Now let me switch gears to our new development activities.
Were making nice progress on all four projects under development.
At our Hilltop development in DC Wegmans is scheduled to open in June.
Were over 97% leased and the commencement of rent will significantly accelerate in the latter half of the year.
This is a great development in a tremendous location that is a quality addition to our portfolio.
At our Wake Forest development in the Raleigh market were 96% leased with Ross PETCO and TJ Maxx and Michaels all signed.
Construction is well underway and should be substantially complete by the third quarter.
Our investment in the project will be about $16 million.
At Nottingham Commons our newest addition to the pipeline in White Marsh Maryland leasing is progressing nicely with several junior anchor deals well underway.
Weve signed leases during the quarter with PETCO and MOMs of value orient organic market with locations in Maryland Pennsylvania Virginia and DC.
Further demand for shop space is strong with several small shop merchants already signed.
The Whitaker is our exciting infill project in West Seattle.
This six story mixed-use project is being co-developed with Lennar with our 63 000 square foot retail portion anchored by a 41 000 square foot Whole Foods.
This project is under construction by Lennar and they anticipate delivering the retail portion to us in late 2016.
We continue to see activity in new development and our experienced team will continue to pursue select opportunities where we can add shareholder value with reasonable risk.
And Ill like to turn it over to Steve to discuss our financial results.
Thanks Drew.
Recurring FFO was $0.52 per diluted share up 6.1% from $0.49 in the first quarter of last year.
FFO for the first quarter benefited from a strong increase in same-property NOI of 4.2% driven by increased occupancy and rental rate growth.
Recurring FFO for the quarter also benefited from our fourth quarter and first quarter acquisitions our new development and redevelopment activity and reduced interest expense from favorable refinancing activity.
These increases were offset by the impact of our dispositions program primarily the fourth quarter of 2014 activity which cost us $0.06 per share this quarter compared to the first quarter of 2014.
Reported FFO was $0.48 per share for the quarter compared to $0.51 per share in the prior year.
Included in reported FFO were debt extinguishment cost of $0.05 per share offset by gain on the settlement of a law suit of $0.01 per share.
Turning to the balance sheet this quarter has been reasonably active from a capital market perspective.
First as previously announced we closed on a five year $200 million term loan that was swapped to a fixed rate of 2.64%.
This loan fit nicely into our maturity schedule which had minimal debt maturing in 2020.
Second we negotiated an amendment to a $66 million secured loan with an insurance company that extended the maturity by eight years to 2025 and reduced the interest rate to 3.5%.
This is the financing that cost $0.05 debt extinguishment cost in the quarter.
Third as Drew mentioned earlier we initiated selling equity under our ATM facility.
Through March the 31<sup>st</sup> we raised $29.4 million with an additional $11.4 million self subsequent to quarter end.
Finally we gave notice to redeem a $150 million of our Series F preferred shares effective on May 8<sup>th</sup> which is the last of our outstanding preferreds.
While the perpetual future of preferred equity is beneficial we view the rate premium as too expensive given todays low intrastate environment.
Our decision to finance part of the preferreds with equity reaffirms our commitment to maintaining a strong capital structure providing us the capacity to take advantage of future opportunities as they arise.
Our debt ratios remained very strong at quarter end with our net debt to EBITDA at 5.35 times our net debt plus preferred to EBITDA at 5.77 times and debt to total market cap at 29.4%.
After 2015 we affirm guidance recurring FFO guidance at $2.12 to $2.17 per diluted share and reported FFO of $2.07 to $2.12 per diluted shares.
All of the other details of our guidance are included on page 9 of our supplemental package.
Johnny? Thanks Steve.
Weingarten had a great quarter and we feel good about the rest of 2015.
Even with tepid tenant demand we continue to enjoy the tailwinds from the limited new supply and the quality of the transform portfolio.
So far operations in our energy influenced markets have not experienced impacts from reduced oil prices.
Most of our Houston retailers that report quarterly had sales increases during the first quarter versus last year.
We still expect local economic conditions will weaken but the impact of other significant contributors to the local economy like the Port of Houston and the Houston Medical Center will help to partially offset the magnitude of that slow down.
Our Houston portfolio is significantly different than it was five or ten years ago.
We have exceptional properties with almost 80% of our average base rent coming from shopping centers either in or serving superzips.
These properties which provide necessities and value are well positioned.
During the quarter our Houston portfolio generated a 7% same property NOI in double digit rent growth [ph].
We expect comparable growth over the next several quarters.
Nationally the job market continues to improve and low energy prices are putting money in the consumers pocket.
Savings from lower gas prices appear to have been used for consumer debt reduction and savings.
But many economists expect improved retail sales are on the horizon.
The consumer confidence index has increased over 8 points since the end of 2014.
Thats the best three month improvement since the third quarter of 2007.
So we continue to believe better retail sales and stronger tenant demand are ahead.
During the quarter our transform portfolio produced great operating metrics same property NOI of 4.2%.
The base minimum rent increase in that same property pool was 3.6% increased occupancy to 95.5%.
Shop occupancy rose to 90.3% thats an increase of 200 basis points from a year ago.
Tenant fallouts continue to slow.
The first quarter of 2015 was 24% less than 2014.
Average base rent across the portfolio rose to $16.45 an increase of over 4% from a year ago for the entire company.
And finally leasing production has remained steady even with significantly reduced vacancy.
Its challenging to single out a specific region which is performing better than others as all are going so well.
Florida occupancy is up to almost 97%.
Excluding our new Baybrook project Houston occupancy rose to 96.2%.
Atlanta is 96.5% and both Los Vegas and Phoenix have reached 95.4%.
We still expect in the year within our same property NOI guidance range of 2.5% to 3.5%.
It is worth noting the second quarter of 2014 included about $700 000 of bad debt recoveries that we dont expect to reproduce.
We anticipate the second quarter to increase around 2% which is still quite good given the very strong comp in 2014.
We continue to find ways to create value in our existing portfolio as you can see on our redevelopment schedule on page 11 of the supplemental.
Our active pipeline consists of 10 properties with estimated incremental investments of around $60 million generating returns of 10% to 15% upon completion.
As per acquisitions we had a great quarter closing the purchase of two exciting redevelopment opportunities.
Baybrook Gateway is located across from the very successful Baybrook Mall in Houston.
The property has been held by a special servicer for several years.
It was only 65% occupied when we closed.
Were working through several scenarios and should start remerchandising the property in the next several months.
Also we closed on Cambrian Park Plaza during the quarter another redevelopment opportunity were very excited about.
Cambrian is located in San Jose California.
The property has great demographics within a three mile radius.
Household incomes are $122 000 50.6% of adults are college educated and there are 183 000 people.
Most exciting is this 17 acre site is not encumbered by long term leases which gives us a lot of flexibility as we consider our options.
Well be working closely with all the stakeholders as we look at adding density and likely a grocery component over the next several years.
After quarter end we also closed on the purchase of Wellington Green Commons.
This 112 000 square foot shopping center is anchored by a high volume of Whole Foods and has average household incomes of $100 000.
The center is fully leased but has nice up sight over the next several years.
Cumulatively weve invested almost $146 million thus far in 2015.
So we have a good start on the guidance range of $200 million to $250 million.
Given the highly competitive environment there is no guarantee well achieve our acquisitions goal.
We will remain disciplined looking for great properties with good growth.
Were seeing cap rates for great properties in four in a quarter to 5% range in gateway markets probably 50 to 75 basis points higher in other strong urban areas.
Drew? Thanks Johnny.
To add on to some of Johnnys points about Houston Houston overall makes up only about 16% of our total company ABR.
That 16% is concentrated in the core of the city with the majority of that NOI servicing superzips.
For these properties the average household income is nearly 30% higher than the average Houston at CBSA and the percentage of college graduates is nearly 50% higher.
Our retail portfolio by contrast to the office or multifamily sector benefits from the fact that very little new retail space has been built.
This further strengthens our confidence.
This has been a really great start to 2015 and were confident we can continue this momentum.
Our balance sheet is very strong which positions us to take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
Combined with an outstanding transform portfolio of great properties that will continue to produce strong increases in NOI were bullish on the future of WRI.
Were also looking forward to the ULI conference here in Houston and ICSCs RECon convention in Los Vegas.
If youre here for ULI let us know and I think youll get a feel for the strength of the city and especially our strong properties.
As to RECon I know Steve and Michelle had meetings with many of you.
We look forward to those and to all the retailer meetings we have and the interest in our great properties.
I would like to thank all of our associates for their efforts in this outstanding start to 2015.
Great people great properties and a great platform includes great results.
I thank you all for joining the call today and for your continued interest in Weingarten.
Operator wed be happy to take questions.
Thanks Drew and well now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And from Citi we have Michael Bilerman on line.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
This is Katy McConnell of for Christy.
Could you pun [ph] an update on thoughts around new ground up development and maybe give a sense for whats in the shadow pipeline of DLG [ph] explain today? Certainly as I mentioned were seeing a lot of opportunities I think a bit of an increase.
I dont have a specific color that I could really - give you a number that Im terribly comfortable with because were going to stay very disciplined.
But were comfortable our development expertise and think that we could have a pipeline similar to where it is now as far out in the future as we can foresee.
So were encouraged from what we see as the rends of some of the retailers a little more aggressive a little more open to paying the rents necessary to make sense of new development.
Okay great and then lastly could you disclose the average cap rate on the acquisition that youve completed so far this year? Hey Katy good morning.
Yeah its going to be roughly around 4.5% to 5%.
The biggest piece of course is Cambrian which was a little bit lower than that and I think the key to understand Cambrian is that the property had been held in a family trust for over 20 years and the rents there are very very low.
We expect over the next several years to increase the rents and probably increase the density on the property and its really similar between a new development and an acquisition.
We expect over the next four or five years to ways that that return to around 7%.
Okay great.
Thank you.
From JP Morgan we have [indiscernible] on line.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
I was just wondering do you expect the development pipeline to stay around the same size as it has in the past three years or will you be allocating more capital in the future? Good morning its Drew.
As to the capital allocation we will pursue diligently all aspects of our growth strategy.
Johnny and team look hard at the existing portfolio for any redevelopment opportunities.
Well certainly look at core acquisitions like Wellington and well look for redevelopment opportunities like Baybrook and Cambrian as well as well continue to source new development and we really dont have any pre-established goals as to what goes into what bucket.
Its all about the opportunities and the risk reward.
So as I mentioned before we are seeing a slight increase in the number of opportunities.
We have an extremely robust pipeline now with some great deals and were cautiously optimistic that we can back fill that with new deals and stay it about the same level that well of course disciplined to looking at good risk reward opportunities.
Okay thank you.
From Wells Fargo Securities we have Tammy Fique on line.
Please go ahead.
Hi I just wanted to ask a question on FFP redemption I guess I was a little surprised that guidance didnt increase as a result of the 6.5% redemption I guess.
Can you just talk about if the upper end of guidance is - it may be a better target at this point or what maybe offsetting that and then maybe also what youre planning in terms of funding for the remainder of that? Is it all equity at this point or are you also planning to use some debt funding? Thank you.
Good morning Tammy.
This is Steve.
Good question.
There are a few more moving pieces in guidance and really where our business plan is and normally given that this is Q1.
As we reported weve did not have the redemption of the preferred in our business plan note that we have the ATM aspect in the plan acquisitions dispositions we use just a ratable approach throughout the year so the timing of those creates some variant.
As you mentioned in response to your question about funding the overall redemption of the preferreds the thought quite frankly was to use some of the derived powder that we have on the balance sheet and redeem part of the preferreds with debt but clearly to issue equity for a portion of that.
Theres no magic number but we were kind of thinking that 50-50 range would be appropriate but obviously have the balance sheet capacity to do whatever.
Having said all that you go all the pluses and minuses the dilution from the ATM I would also tell you that we will - in our business plan we had a bond transaction a debt financing very late in the year and given the redemption on the preferreds that will be moved up in the year.
So well most likely be doing a bond transaction sooner rather than later.
So all of those kind of if you will plusing and minusing equates to were comfortable with where our guidance is overall.
I would also say that we had a very strong first quarter as Johnny mentioned in his prepared remarks we have a difficult comp on same store NOI for the second quarter.
So therell be a little bit of noise.
And then as always weve worked hard to do whatever we can to improve that but its still early in the year.
Okay thank you.
And then maybe just turning to releasing spread can you just talk about your expectations for the [indiscernible] 9% of first quarter which is a good number but it was slightly below where you were in 2014.
And I guess just given record occupancy levels and the certain leasing on the small shop side would seem to be a kind of increasing spreads I guess would you agree with that and then maybe just talk about your outlook for the year? Tammy this is Johnny and good morning.
I tend to agree with you I think were a little bit lower than our expectation.
This quarter we did have a single transaction that really brought the number down.
My expectation would be double digit the balance of the year.
So yeah I definitely think that we will improve that over the next several quarters.
We do have a very strong leverage with our retailers and were seeing good increases and I think youll see the results of that through the rest of the year.
Okay great.
Thank you.
From Green Street Advisors we have Jay Carlington on line.
Please go ahead.
Great thank you.
Hey Johnny just on Q1same store NOI was that in your expectations or were there some surprises in that that kind of drove the hire number? Good morning Jay.
That was certainly inside of the range that we had anticipated in our forecast.
And thats why we wanted to point out that there would be some slight variance to that little bit lumpy in the next quarter just not to surprise anybody going forward but it was a great quarter and you can see 3.6% increase in a minimum rent is a tremendous number.
So were very very proud of it.
Okay so maybe as a follow up to that as you look at the 2% number in Q2 and then towards the backend of the year.
I guess Im trying to understand kind of whats baked into the lower end of that same store range or maybe 2.5 to 3.5 so as we think about the back half of the year.
Yeah we expect to do some tenant remerchandising.
We will have a little bit of fall out as we move towards the end of the year.
We have a little bit of bad debt recovery that we had in fourth quarter of 2014 that would be again difficult to match.
Okay and Drew can you maybe give us some color regarding Pattys retirement and what the transition plans are for her role? Certainly.
Good morning Jay.
As [indiscernible] mentioned we have been planning for Pattys departure for some time.
Shes with the company for 33 years and the biggest change is that the four folks who had reported to Patty [indiscernible] divisions are western or central or south east and at mid Atlantic will now be reporting directly to Johnny.
Theyre all very experienced people and consequently comfortable that Johnny can handle the additional work load.
As I said tremendous experience and this was a couple of years in planning largely as I think a lot of people know at least theres some personal circumstances with Patty.
So were very comfortable with it.
She leaves a strong team.
Ive taken over a few little things to take a little bit off of Johnnys plate but the strong bench we have will continue to move forward and we wish Patty all the best but were very comfortable with the transition.
Got it so its just all going to be rolled up and kind of segregated between the different members of the team.
Well continue the decentralization that weve been working on for probably 10 15 years where the folks that many of you have met Miles Sanchez out in Phoenix; Gerald Crump here in Houston; Lee Brody in Atlanta and Steven Weingarten in Florida really run those divisions are very involved in all of the growth all of the dispositions as well as the leasing and the overall strategic direction.
And theyre all 10 year plus veterans with the company who really understand all aspects of our business so Im not saying Johnny wont have anything to do in adding a second pair of viables and helping make things better but theyre established folks who understand our culture understand how we look at real estate and are very very experienced in their jobs.
Okay very helpful.
Thanks guys.
[Operator Instructions] And from SunTrust Robinson Humphrey we have Ki Bin Kim on the line.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
If I look at your expense recovery ratios versus the kind of your peer set at least superficially does seem lower.
Im just curious is it because theres different mix of things that are going into those numbers but if can may be comment about why - at least officially your expense recovery seem to kind of around that 6% to 7% versus the peer group that goes into 80? Good morning Ki Bin.
I cant really comment relative to my peer group at AD.
I can tell you ours have been relatively consistent on a - we do obviously have some older leases that may not be truly tripling that.
On a marginal basis quite frankly as you move forward the vast vast majority of our incremental expenses are fully recovered.
So Im not very sure that again I can respond to the way that our peer group maybe different.
[indiscernible] As you lease up your small shop occupancy and your expense recoveries have improved with that but is there another leg to this where this small shop actually kicks in and commences maybe the expense recovery ratio improves more so than it has been? Well I think it did.
If you look at total operating expenses from year end where we were a little over 30% we reduced that some 50 basis points or so in Q1.
So I think our improvement in operating leverage has improved.
So I would say yes and I would - your overall observation of as we leased up the smaller shop which is all triple med [ph] is also correct in the sense that that will go up even further.
Okay thank you.
From RBC Capital Markets we have Rich Moore on the line.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
Im curious on the tenant front what you guys are hearing I mean it seems like weve gone into another patch of slower economic growth after a bit of a speed up in economic growth and Im curious how the retailers in general are responding to you guys in terms of new store openings and what your sense is I guess for going to ICSC so youre your sense is as you head into that? Hey good morning Rich.
This is Johnny.
I think things are about the same that theyve been for the last Im going to say 18 months.
Tenants are interested in expanding but things have to be exactly right for them and theyre continuing to grow but pretty slow.
I dont see that theres a lot of pressure on retailers to grow sales.
I havent seen any change over the last several months but some of the anchor the mid anchor tenants seem to be willing to pay a little bit more over the last six months or so and thats probably why were feeling like there could be more development on the horizon.
Okay good.
Thank you Johnny.
Thats very helpful.
Then Steve if I could.
The mortgages that come due this year I mean I guess some of them are probably in joint ventures I cant really tell exactly which ones are but will those eventually make their way into bonds and does the term loan play a part in that too or I guess how do you look at that mortgage portfolio as it comes to? Good morning Rich.
I would say its all off the above.
The JVs there are a couple of secured loans in the JVs that are coming due and some of those will be refinanced if you will.
And again were not using our balance sheet but they maybe refinancing with new secured debts.
Overall the steps that we have generally speaking yes it does roll into unsecured with the bond transaction.
Having said that as we already reported we did the $166 million deal with a life company blend and extend and we will have conversations with the secured lenders as you might be aware theyre very aggressive in terms of wanting to keep those loans outstanding.
So well compare that the cost of that relative to doing a bond transaction so it could be that we could do some more blend and extends as those come to but well just have to see the way the market feels at that time.
Okay good.
Great thanks Steve.
[Operator Instructions] From Capital One Securities we have Chris Lucas on line.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Johnny I just wanted to follow up on a comment that you made and I missed the beginning of the call so I apologize if youve already addressed this.
But is it related to the development activity where are we with that? Is that - are we starting to see a significant change in that new starts or is this something that again remains sort of a 17 18 19 kind of issue? Hey Chris its true.
Good morning.
Yes I [indiscernible] my earlier question in terms of taking a little bit off Johnnys plates.
Im pretty involved in development so Ill take a chance - take a shot at giving a little more color there.
I agree with what Johnny said in answer to Richs question about the tenant mood that were a little more glass half-full that there is some activity amongst the tenants and a little bit more action that they are starting to see if they can pencil out the rents necessary for new developments in light of the fact that we and lot of our peers are 95% 96% leased and they still have some desire for new space.
But things have to line up really well so were seeing some opportunities.
It is something that we feel cautiously optimistic about weve got some great developments in our pipeline and some big developments like them the Hilltop deal as you know.
So it will be challenging to replace those with similar good quality things as they come along.
So were cautiously optimistic there.
Things are in good moderations such that we dont really see any issues of any over building thats where I think things will stay very nicely under control.
So hopefully that gives you a little more color on it.
So what tenants so what sort of type of tenant is leading this new development interest? We have additional super markets most exemplified by Kroger all of the niche super markets Whole Foods Sprouts et cetera.
The value oriented retailers the losses T.J.Maxxs Frowen Home Goods et cetera.
So there are a good number of tenants.
Now Wall Mart and Target not as busy as they were the Lowes the Home Depot is not as busy as they were 10 years ago so again I think tremendous over building is not a risk but we are seeing a little bit of improvement with many of the value oriented tenants that weve done business with for many many years.
Are you seeing new grocery concepts pick up interest as well? As these are there for several quarters and each grocers are very strong Sprouts Earth Fares Trader Joes in addition to of course Whole Foods who in many respects pioneered that industry but its now been around for pretty good long time.
Okay and the last question from me.
It looks like the anchor space is pretty much plateaued call it mid 98s on a signed lease basis but the smaller shop space continues to sort of see this improvement in the lease rate.
Where do you think that pops out on the small shop space? I think we can get over a 96% which means the shop spaces need to be 92 plus.
Again I think with our transformed portfolio the entry markets that were in that we can achieve that.
Its a goal and its something that well work towards.
When we were talking about same property NOI growths towards the second half of the year it is one of the other things that we will contrast that a proposed stronger rent growth in limited space.
Im sure there will be some circumstances where well just agree to disagree with the tenant over rent and we will take some space back.
So it is very much a local decision something thats made by the team and I referred to earlier.
But from a big picture level things are good and I think we can comfortably get the company over 96 which means shops over 92.
Great thank you guys.
And from Wells Fargo Securities we have a follow up from Tammy Fique.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Just two quick modeling related questions.
The first is I guess what are you expecting in terms of preferred redemption cost in the second quarter and then does annual recurring guidance include or exclude the one legal settlement in that first quarter? Tammy I think the preferred redemption cost is about $6 million and relative to the law suit settlement that was not in recurring FFO it was in reported FFO but not recurring.
Okay and then for guidance I guess I just didnt see that reconciliation in the guidance number so was there additional debt extinguishment cost later in the year or was the quarter [indiscernible] in terms of debt extinguishment? Being Q2 we will not redeem the preferred until May 8.
Okay thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Okay and we have no further questions.
Drew Ill turn it back to you to close it up.
Well thanks Brendon and thanks to everybody on the call.
We really appreciate your interest in Weingarten and well be around if theres other questions.
Look forward to seeing some of you at ULI and many of you at RECon and we really really appreciate your interest in Weingarten.
Have a great day.
And ladies and gentlemen this concludes todays conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Weingarten Realtys Second Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
My name is Brandon and Ill be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
And I will now turn it over to Michelle Wiggs.
Michelle you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter 2015 conference call.
Joining me today is Drew Alexander President and CEO; Stanford Alexander Chairman; Johnny Hendrix Executive Vice President and COO; Steve Richter Executive Vice President and CFO; and Joe Shafer Senior Vice President and CAO.
As a reminder certain statements made during the course of this call are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
These statements are based on managements current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
More information about these factors is contained in the companys SEC filings.
Also during this conference call management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as Funds from Operations or FFO both recurring and reported which we believe help analysts and investors to better understand Weingartens operating results.
Reconciliation to these non-GAAP financial measures is available in our supplemental information package located under the Investor Relations tab of our website.
I will now turn the call over to Drew Alexander.
Thank you Michelle.
And thanks to all of you for joining us.
Were very pleased to report another great quarter with strong operating results from our outstanding portfolio.
Clearly the transformation we began five years ago is working.
We had very solid same property NOI growth fueled by growth in rental rates increased occupancy and minimal tenant fall out.
This firmly validates the success of our transformation.
Turning to acquisition we purchased two great core properties during the quarter.
First we purchased Wellington Green Commons in Florida anchored by Whole Foods.
Second at the end of the quarter we purchased The Summit at Scottsdale in the greater Phoenix metro.
This property is anchored by Target and Safeway.
Both of these properties will produce good NOI growth and are located in solid markets with strong demographics.
Johnny will provide a little more color on each of these properties in a minute.
Looking ahead the acquisition market remains competitive and well stay focused on our target markets and remain disciplined.
As to dispositions our major transformation was complete in 2014 but our strategy is to continue to improve the quality of our portfolio.
During the second quarter we sold about $28 million of property brining our year-to-date sales to about $64 million.
And we expect to end the year in our guidance range of $125 million to $175 million of dispositions.
Now let me switch gears to our new development activities.
Were making nice progress on all four projects.
At our Hilltop development in DC Wegmans grand opening was strong with nearly 2 000 people waiting in line to shop this 126 000 square foot store.
Obviously its exciting to have this best-in-class supermarket open in our center and generating tremendous traffic for our Hilltop merchants.
Were over 97% leased and the commencement of rent will significantly accelerate in the latter half of the year.
Were also pleased to report that Ross TJ Maxx and Michaels opened last week at our Wake Forest development in the Raleigh market.
This project is 94% leased and many of the remaining stores will be opening soon.
Our investment in the project will be about $19 million.
At Nottingham Commons our newest addition to the pipeline in White Marsh Maryland leasing is progressing nicely.
During the quarter we signed a lease with TJ Maxx who will join PETCO and MOMs.
MOMs is a value oriented organic food market with locations in Maryland Pennsylvania Virginia and DC.
Further demand for shop space is strong with several small shop merchants already signed.
Signed occupancy already stands at 80% with construction commencing next month.
The Whittaker in West Seattle is a six story mixed-use project is being co-developed with Lennar.
Our 63 000 square foot retail portion is anchored by a 41 000 square foot Whole Foods.
Lennar has begun construction and they anticipate delivering the retail portion to us in late 2016.
We continue to see increased activity in new development with more potential projects.
Our experienced team will continue to pursue select opportunities where we can add shareholder value with reasonable risk.
I now like to turn the call over to Steve to discuss our financial results.
Thanks Drew.
Reported FFO was $0.46 per diluted share for the quarter compared to $0.53 per share in the prior year included in reported FFO for the current quarter was preferred share redemption cost of $0.08 per share resulting in recurring FFO of $0.54 per diluted share up 5.9% from $0.51 in the second quarter last year.
FFO for the second quarter benefited from a strong increase in Same Property NOI of 4.1% driven by increased occupancy and rental rate growth.
Recurring FFO for the quarter also benefited from our new development and redevelopment activity and to a lesser extent our current year acquisitions.
Additionally we benefited from favorable refinancing activity including our new five-year $200 million term loan closed in the first quarter as well as a redemption of our remaining preferred shares.
These increases were offset by the impact of our disposition program primarily the fourth quarter 2014 activity which cost us $0.7 per share compared to the second quarter of 2014.
Turning to the balance sheet this quarter has been reasonably active from a capital markets perspective.
First as previously announced we redeemed a $150 million of our 6.5% Series F preferred shares on May 8 which was the last of our preferreds.
In May we sold $250 million of 3.85% senior unsecured 10-year notes.
The yield to maturity on the notes was 3.94%; however we locked the swap rate back in April when we gave notice to redeem the preferred shareholders.
So including the benefits from the settlement of the hedge our all-in costs to this financing was 3.77%.
These bonds fit nicely into our maturity ladder which had minimal debt maturing in 2025 and it allowed us to completely payoff the revolver which had been used to fund the preferred redemption.
We also partially funded the redemptions of preferreds with $40.8 million of common equity issued under our ATM facility as reported last quarter.
Our decision to refinance part of the preferreds with common equity reaffirms our commitment to maintaining a strong capital structure providing us the capacity to take advantage of future opportunities as they arise.
No equity has been issued since our last earnings release.
Our debt ratios remained very strong at quarter-end with our net debt to EBITDA at 5.9 times and our debt to total market cap at 33.7%.
As to 2015 guidance we are increasing guidance for recurring FFO to a range of $2.14 to $2.18 per diluted share from $2.12 to $2.17.
Guidance for reported FFO also increases to $2.02 to $2.06 per share.
Additionally we are increasing guidance for Same Property NOI to a range of 3% to 4% from 2.5% to 3.5%.
All the other details of our guidance remained unchanged and are included on Page 9 of our supplemental package.
Johnny? Thanks Steve.
It was another great quarter.
And its really been a string of 14 great quarters since the beginning of 2014 when the transformation began to produce results.
During that period weve averaged 4% increases in Same Property NOI.
We increased occupancy by 340 basis points and we increased the average base rent by 15% from $14.51 a square foot to $16.63 at quarter end.
Today we have a strong tailwinds with very little new supply modest but improving retailer demand and high occupancy for good retail properties.
These conditions lead to strong leverage for renewals and for new leases.
During the quarter we generated rent increases of 12.2% led by our strong new lease spread of 16.8%.
The strength in rent growth is apparent with about 90% of all our transactions providing positive increases.
Occupancy across the portfolio is a strong 95.5% an increase of 70 basis points from a year-ago; particularly strong is Raleigh over 97%; Denver Atlanta and Florida just under 97%.
These numbers are great.
And theres still a 180 basis point spread between signed and commenced leases.
As those spaces open and start paying rent in the next six months to nine months theyll bring online about $9 million in annualized minimum rent.
We still anticipate that we can increase occupancy to 96% or even a little higher to get there small shop occupancy would need to increase to around 93% from about 90% today.
This represents about $0.06 per share of FFO.
The trajectory towards 96% may be a little saw-toothed along the way.
Were focusing on improving the portfolio quality as we have the opportunity to improve rents and tenant credit.
Well take advantage of that even if there is a little downtime.
Our redevelopment at Westchase here in Houston is a good example.
When the opportunity was available we elected to re-lease the former supermarket to Whole Foods.
We lost about a year of rent.
We have improved our NAV dramatically achieving over 100-basis-point compression in cap rate.
We continue to execute profitably on our redevelopment pipeline.
We have 10 active projects where were anticipating investing $62 million and generate over 10% return.
So far weve invested about $27 million on these 10 properties and another $8 million on four properties completed this year.
While we have a few major redevelopments underway much of our efforts have been adding additional square footage in our parking lots.
A good example is the Westhill Center in Houston.
We demolished an old Mexican food restaurant and built a new 6 Our Same Property increase of 4.1% this quarter was fantastic.
Im most excited that we produced the 3.4% increase in base minimum rent.
Our increasing guidance for Same Property NOI is a firm indication predicting the timing has been difficult.
Were certainly happy with the outcome of 4.1%.
Tenant fallout is a record low.
During the quarter we terminated 73 tenants representing only $3 million in annual rent.
This is the lowest quarterly fallout weve experienced since we began tracking this number.
Year-to-date our tenant fallout is 20% below 2014.
Most of the year-over-year decrease comes from improvement in short tenant fallout.
Through our transformation we steadily improved the credit quality of shop tenants which directly correlates to the improving fallout trend over the last several years.
Leasing remains steady.
Weve recently seen an increase in the number of shop retailers looking for space.
That pickup is coming from several categories.
First footwear retailers have been expanding and want to locate in centers like ours anchored by soft good retailers like Ross T.J.
Maxx and Marshalls.
Payless Rack Room DSW and Boot Barn and Famous Footwear are very active.
Were seeing continued expansion from service tenants like the Massage Envy value hair services cellphone stores mattress stores and restaurants.
Pet stores continue to expand in that category starting to produce several more competitors.
Banfield Pet Hospital PetPeople Pet Value and Pet Supermarket are all looking to grow.
We currently have five leases working with these brands.
Its great to have retailers competing for limited space available.
Cap rates have held steady through the quarter.
Generally we are seeing 4.5% to 5.5% for core assets in gateway markets and 5% to 6% in other metros.
During the quarter we acquired two shopping centers investing $81 million at cap rates in the low 5s.
First was Wellington Green near Palm Beach Florida.
The center is anchored by a high-volume Whole Foods and has household incomes around $100 000 a year and about 50% of its population are college graduates.
The project also enjoys the benefit of being located on the ring road of the mall of Wellington expanding our trade area beyond the normal neighborhood center.
Even though the property is a 100% leased we expect to have NOI growth over 3% with contractual rent bumps and some re-tenanting.
Also we closed on the Summit at Scottsdale and Scottsdale Arizona.
The property is anchored by Target CVS and a Safeway supermarket on a ground lease.
We co-invested with our Dutch partner Bouwinvest.
This property is in a super-zip with household incomes in a three-mile radius over $132 000 a year and over 65% of the population are college graduates.
With significant barriers to entry we think this asset will grow NOI over 3% a year.
So year-to-date weve invested $173 million.
We also have a couple of other deals about $60 million in the pipeline today.
Obviously there is no guarantee theyll close.
But we feel like well be within our guidance range of $200 million to $250 million in acquisitions this year.
Again it was a great quarter with 4.1% Same Property NOI new lease rent growth of 16.8% renewal rent growth of 10.9% strong occupancy consistent execution of our redevelopment pipeline and a solid acquisition pipeline.
With our transformed portfolio were looking forward to the rest of 2015.
Drew? Thanks Johnny.
Were still closely following the Houston economy as continued lower energy prices translates to a slowdown in job creation.
However as we pointed out previously we have a great group of assets in Houston.
So we feel our properties will remain largely unaffected.
Case in point occupancy for Weingartens Houstons comparable assets is 96.8% up 70 basis points from six months ago.
For the year weve signed 12 new leases with rent growth of 16.1% and growth for negotiated renewals of 16.8%.
So while 2015 job growth will likely be modest the job growth over the prior five years was so good and so little new space was built that we remain confident our Houston properties will be fine.
Looking at the big picture of the company halfway through 2015 I would say were very pleased with our performance and we believe we can maintain this momentum.
Investing capital remains very challenging but weve continued to uncover unique opportunities.
We remain optimistic that new development will accelerate with the ever dwindling supply of quality space.
We will continue to produce outstanding operating results driven by strong increases in NOI from our transformed portfolio quality properties.
In closing I want to highlight that next month well mark our 30th anniversary as a lead on the New York Stock Exchange.
Weve obviously seen a lot of changes in our industry during this time and have navigated through good times and bad.
But the constants have been a continual focus on maximizing shareholder returns and a dedication to ethical business practices and to all our stakeholders.
I would like to thank all our associates for their efforts great people great properties and a great platform equals great results.
I thank all of you for joining the call today and for your continued interest in Weingarten.
Operator well now be happy to take questions.
Thanks Drew.
And well now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And from the Citi we have Christy McElroy on line.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
This is Katy McConnell for Christy.
Can you tell us what the Same Store NOI growth was in the Houston portfolio on 2Q? And have you seen any impact on retailer demand for space there yet? Hey Katy good morning.
This is Johnny.
Same Property NOI for the quarter in Houston was about 5.5% so pretty strong.
Weve been in close contact with most of our retailers and so far we have not seen any negative impact from reduction in oil prices obviously its something that I think one would expect.
But today it hasnt hit us.
So hope we will be able to continue that.
Okay great.
Thank you.
From the SunTrust Robinson Humphrey we have Anthony Hew [ph] on line.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
So in terms of Same Store NOI you guys increased your guidance range from 3% to 4%.
Here you are trading at a very high end of that right now.
Just thinking about the back-end of the year is there anything we should expect or anything driving and expect to slowdown is it just tougher comps or do you think there is some store closing thats maybe didnt happen in the first-half of the year and may pick up in the back-half of the year? Hey good morning Anthony.
This is Johnny.
I would tell you that there is no question that the number of store closings is lower than we had anticipated.
And that certainly has helped us.
I dont see that increasing dramatically.
We do have a couple of boxes that will close in the second-half of the year.
And something that we talked about in the script and that is that were certainly prepared to have boxes closed and re-lease them and thats really the situation that we have.
One of the space has already leased and the other one weve got a couple of good prospects but there is no way we can get those back online producing rent for the year.
So our outlook is very positive for the rest of the year as far as Same Store NOI and we do have some tough comps.
Okay.
Thank you.
From Green Street Advisors we have Jay Carlington on line.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
So just kind of go back to the bad debt comparison Im a little unclear kind of how that shook out this quarter.
I guess - did the timing of anything change in terms of bad debt this quarter or was it just a better outcome? Hey good morning Jay.
What I tried to lay out in the script was that the inflow of revenue from bad debt is a little bit hard to calculate.
Most of it is the result of lawsuits that occur for a number of years or bankruptcies that occur for a number of years.
So it does tend to be a little bit lumpy when youre trying to calculate what it might be and then what it is.
One other things that we did look at it was kind of try to pull out all of the bad debt.
So we looked at the last eight quarters and during that period we reported 3.8% increase in Same Property NOI.
If you strip out all of that bad debt the increase would still be 3.8%.
So I think that it creates a lot of noise but over time it does tend to balance out.
Okay.
I guess when I think about that 2% that we were kind of expecting in Q2 versus the delta.
Is that all bad debt or is that just kind of a combination of that and better core performance? It is a combination of things.
The most of it is bad debt but certainly operations with the lower fall-out has been positive.
Leasing has been a little bit better than we had anticipated.
Got a little bit extra from percentage rent.
We got a little more from recoveries because of the occupancy so a number of things that are working positively for us.
The primary thing was we got about $1 million in bad debt and we had really thought it would be significantly less than that.
There was a significant lawsuit that we did receive money on.
Okay.
Okay maybe just shifting to kind of acquisitions I guess the year-to-date going cap rate on this kind of mid-to-high 4s.
What type of IRR [ph] are you underwriting on these purchases and has that changed maybe in the last couple of quarters? Jay one of the things that you have to look at is when you look at the first two assets we bought during the year both Cambrian and Baybrook.
Those are assets that have significant upside over a longer period of time where we going to redevelop those properties and we will have an IRR of more than 8 on those assets.
And so initially the return seems a little bit low but generally what we looked at is IRRs in the 7-ish range.
Okay.
Thanks Johnny.
From UBS we have Jeremy Metz on line.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Drew you talked about seeing new development increase in opening remarks.
Im just wondering which markets maybe in particular are you seeing or do you expect to see the activity pickup? Good morning Jeremy.
Its really across our whole footprint.
One of the things that weve always tried to stress is that we are a lot more focused than some of our peers.
We have our local people in the market.
So really were looking at things from the Pacific Northwest through California Florida as well as up into Washington DC.
So its really somewhat across the footprint.
I would say were very sensitive to things in Houston recognizing the oil comments but - and again the closing areas of Houston if we could find something where we could make sense with the land we would certainly look at it here too.
So its pretty consistent across the footprint.
And so I guess as we think about your shadow development pipeline given the fact that maybe youll see a little more general increase in activity here.
Are you close to trying to get some of those out-of-the-box sooner versus later ahead of that.
And how should we really think about the normal run rate here for development and redevelopment? Thats a good question.
Were certainly going to stay disciplined.
We are seeing the opportunities we mentioned.
But we generally think we can keep about the same level as where we are now in the $150 million to $200 million neighborhood.
It may vary some quarter-to-quarter because good properties do take a lot of time to work things out and have a good risk-reward.
But over a period of time we think we can stay in that $150 million to $200 million neighborhood.
Okay.
And then just steady [ph] and one more switching gears over to Houston sounds like things are pretty good at least in your portfolio but more generally is the volatility there creating any opportunities or additional opportunities on the acquisitions front and maybe more deals similar to what you have with Baybrook? Yes Ill let Johnny follow-on here.
Well certainly pay close attention.
And if we can find the right things that make sense we will do it.
We may get a couple.
I dont think itll be huge because people who have really well-located properties are not going to fire-sell them.
So with our knowledge of the market if we see things that make sense we can certainly move on but I dont think it will be more than a little bit.
Yes Jeremy I would tell you that.
There is certainly no panic in Houston.
Theres not a sense of a recession.
We lived through this in the 80s and you could feel it you could smell it.
Houston home sales according to the Houston Association of Realtors increased in June over a year-ago and the average price is up 6%.
So it seems odd but we are not seeing the result of the job slowdown.
And again I think what Drew said is that the increase in population increase in jobs that occurred over the last several years is still impacting us and there was a pent-up demand that is still not satisfied.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
From RBC Capital Markets we have Rich Moore on line.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Jimmy Bambrick on for Rich.
We had a question about dispositions.
We noticed that about half of the dispositions this year are outside of your target markets while the other half such as the Texas and Florida properties are in the target markets.
We are wondering if you generally focus on assets outside of those target markets or could you maybe go into more detail on your disposition criteria? So good morning.
What were looking at is - we try to articulate is the best thing shopping center by shopping center.
As weve discussed the major transformation is finished and we think our operating results this quarter evidenced what a great success that strategic plan has been.
But well continue to sell in that $150 million neighborhood sort of this far as we can see our guidance this year is the $125 million to $175 million.
So within that Johnny and the deep asset-management bench that we have across the whole portfolio look at each center and we see what make sense.
So well continue to hone the map and exit some states but that exit will be slower as it will be more deliverable.
And then well continue to hone and sell centers that we dont think are making their contribution in the Same Property NOI have more risk and otherwise just make sense to us.
So with the smaller amount of property you will see some shifts quarter-to-quarter.
Again its all about the individual assets as we continue to improve the portfolio which we are very optimistic.
Well continue to produce results like we had this quarter.
Great thank you.
And then its good to hear all the detail on how Houston has been resilient to the job in oil on the demand side.
Were curious if you guys have seen anything on the supply side whether interest in new supply or construction on new site that waned it all.
So the main thing to think of and I would encourage anybody who is interested to come down here or get us on the phone or look at the map on our website.
But the key thing to recall is that about 75% to 80% of our Houston NOI comes from some key centers in very dense populated areas servicing the super-zips generally.
And as we went through in detail in our road-show in New York a year or so ago the land prices in those areas are just too high for competitive - comparable shopping center space.
So thats why we still have this pent-up demand that Johnny talked about.
Its principally apartments were built and no comparable competitive shopping center space was built.
So while there might be some new development going on in the far Houston suburbs; where our properties are really arent seeing that kind of competitive pressures.
So as I talked about development before we are looking across all of our footprint and we could certainly find something here but we are very selective to the areas within Houston that we want to build.
All right.
Thanks very much.
[Operator Instructions] From Hilliard Lyons we have Carol Kemple on the line.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
In your earlier comments you talked about some of the footwear retailers moving into the shopping center space.
Is there a reason that better rents better traffic or just not enough room in the malls to expand what are you hearing from those retailers? Good morning Carol.
Really what were hearing is that they want to be located adjacent to the anchor tenants we have.
So when you look at our shopping centers were clearly dominated by supermarkets who are averaging sales of $576 a square foot thats a good start.
But we also have Targets Ross Marshalls and we are generating a lot of traffic.
Those are really the retailers that are doing business.
When you look at comp store sales for Ross and Marshalls and TJX youre talking about 5% year-over-year increases.
Youve not been over fine those kind of increases that kind of traffic driven but in other locations.
And certainly they will have a mall strategy.
I dont think there is a lot of space there.
But I will tell you the demand for our space is because of the tenancy that we have is really good.
Okay.
And then kind of following up on that theres also been a trend where were seeing a lot of outlets and retailers go to shopping centers due to slower outlets underdevelopment.
Are you picking up any of those retailers and if so which ones are you doing deals with? Yes.
We really havent at this point for whatever reason I think were more kind of bread and butter kind of stuff.
And a lot of service tenants a lot of the discount ready to wear and we just havent - we havent seen a whole lot of the outlook folks migrating toward our properties.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
From Capital One Securities we have Chris Lucas on the line.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Drew I was hoping to get maybe a little more color on your comments about the new development.
Specifically I guess Im wondering if youre seeing a change or broadening of the composition of the kinds of developers who are more active.
And whether or not when you think about the comment about maybe a slight uptickin development whether that is - is that from a sort of ground up type or is that more just a function of an increase in the mixed use with the retail component or redevelopment with significant sort of increase in size of the center whats sort of the break-down there? I think there is a lot of things in there Chris that you talked about.
I dont know that there is a whole lot of new developers to the space.
Retailers have very relationship driven enterprise at something Stanford our Chairman has talked about for years we were with one of our key retailers the other day reminiscing over the 40 45-year experience.
So its a little challenging to break in.
So the people who do mixed use projects often look to a retail expert.
We didnt talk about Walter Reed in Washington DC on the call because its pending long moving nicely but nothing new dramatic to report.
But its a good example where I think we bring that retail expertise.
So definitely seeing some mixed use looking at different things there.
But things are generally good that the tenants are open to looking it new stores and interested in it but there are certainly no land rush.
Theyre not in any big super hurry that they have to get it done.
So I think it bodes well for our existing portfolio and the quality of it especially that we have now that we can continue to keep the occupancy high push rents like we did this quarter.
So that the pickup in development its modest.
I dont think it will translate to anything big over the next quarter.
But I think it will help us make value make money for shareholders.
Thanks.
And then Johnny on the sort of the landlord tenant negotiation balance if you will how was that been - is that continuing to trend more in your favor has it stabilized at all given where rents moved or how do you see that? Yeah.
Good morning Chris.
Shopping center business is corner-to-corner space-to-space center-to-center.
And I would tell you over the larger view yes clearly the leverage is moving in our favor.
At the same time we have fewer anchor tenants you only have one tenant in the office space and seem things being shrinking down.
So it depends on what market it is kind of what the opportunities are there is not a lot available.
But clearly we are seeing much better leverage in - certainly in the shop tenants were seeing significantly better leverage.
There is just enough place for them to go.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
I appreciate it.
Thanks Chris.
From Wells Fargo Securities we have Tammi Fique on line.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Just following up on your comments you just made on landlord leverage do you think market rents are back to prior peak levels or whats the delta there? Hi Tammi.
I would tell you that it varies.
In some of the markets particularly in California we still havent reached peak levels.
And in others Houston Florida Atlanta we are back up to peak Raleigh were probably over.
Some of that is also dependent on the specific locations.
I think the great locations and I think that we have the great locations are really the ones that are going to continue to pick up and continue to see better increases.
And so I feel good about the direction were headed in every market that were in.
Its clearly up.
I think California just was so high.
We havent totally reached the peak in all those areas yet.
And so that 10% where youre not actually seeing positive increases at this point is that characterized by geography or is there anything even sort of any trends you can sort of point to there.
Is that maybe related to the credit quality improvements that you talked about? Its probably a lot of things.
I dont think there is anyone single thing that I could identify could be the movement could be we decided to do a lease for two years knowing that were going to remodel this center and kind of basically hold this space in inventory.
I would tell you that there is - again there is so many reasons there is really no specific reason.
And I feel really good that 90% of all the leases do show an increase the 10% is something that is a low number when you really look at the longer-term view.
Okay yes.
Great.
And maybe just one more question one of your peers indicated that acquisitions are becoming less attracted use of capital in light of the changes in the interest rate environment.
So I guess Im just curious I guess if you agree with that notion and then how you think about future development opportunities in terms of required yields as we face that environment? Hi Tammi its Drew.
Again I think it all comes down to the centers.
Were not going to buy a billion dollars this year as mentioned we will probably be nicely in our guidance.
Johnny talked before about the way it sort of broken down is a little coincidental.
In the beginning of the year we did two great redevelopment properties that were very comfortable with interest rate exchange that we can adjust the rents on the redevelopment of those and produce a good return for shareholders.
This quarter we bought two more core properties but because of the strength of the centers the barriers to entry around the properties the number of tenants and where market rents are we likewise see very good Same Property NOI growth there.
So well certainly continue to match fund were not going to have a lot of short-term floating rate debt on our balance sheet.
So well continue to do some acquisitions.
We always will look to do as much development and redevelopment of quality as we can.
And I think between the all the different arrows we have in our quiver to grow in our existing portfolio we can produce good risk-adjusted FFO growth.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And from UBS we have a follow-up from Jeremy Metz.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys just one quick follow-up along the same lines of growing earnings in Same Store side.
You noted the Same Store was running ahead of expectation given some lower than expected retailer fallout.
But youre also cautioning against higher comps going forward particularly on the occupancy side.
So I guess just given those comments Im just wondering as we look out here at 2016 is it fair to think about the more normalized 2.5% to 3% sort of Same Store growth profile with redevelopment continue to add about 30 basis points to 50 basis points there? Hey Jeremy.
Johnny again.
I would say yes youre probably close when you look at a stabilized portfolio is it 3% to 4% 2.5% to 3% somewhere in that area.
We obviously havent completed our budget.
So were not trying to give guidance but I think on a normalized basis those are certainly some ranges that seemed reasonable to me.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And we will now turn it back to Drew for final remarks.
Well thanks so much everybody for your attention and participation.
We know everybody is very busy with lots of earnings calls and then announcements; and we appreciate it.
Did want to quickly mention and that were having a tour in Las Vegas the Monday before NAREIT.
Weve got your very strong assets there and a great team.
So hope you can join us for that.
We're around if there are any other questions and happy to talk more about Houston either show people here physically keep them nice and air-conditioned when we do that or talking through the maps and the road-show deck.
So thank you all very much.
Really appreciate your interest in Weingarten.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Weingarten Realty Third Quarter Conference Call.
My name is Richard and Ill be your operator for todays call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Michelle Wiggs.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter 2015 conference call.
Joining me today is Drew Alexander President and CEO; Stanford Alexander Chairman; Johnny Hendrix Executive Vice President and COO; Steve Richter Executive Vice President and CFO; and Joe Shafer Senior Vice President and CAO.
As a reminder certain statements made during the course of this call are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
These statements are based on managements current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
More information about these factors is contained in the companys SEC filings.
Also during this conference call management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as funds from operations or FFO both recurring and reported which we believe help analysts and investors to better understand Weingartens operating results.
Reconciliation to these non-GAAP financial measures is available in our supplemental information package located under the Investor Relations tab of our website.
I will now turn the call over to Drew Alexander.
Thank you Michelle and thanks to all of you for joining us.
We are very pleased to report another great quarter with strong operating results from our transformed portfolio.
We had very solid same property NOI fueled by outstanding growth in rental rates.
While our scarcity of vacant space clearly benefits our negotiating position the improved quality of our portfolio created through our highly successful transformation program is a significant driver of this growth.
Vacant space at great centers is in high demand.
While operations remain solid the acquisitions environment continues to be challenging.
Cap rates for high quality shopping centers in our targeted markets remain very low with numerous bidders for every transaction.
We acquired four great acquisitions during the quarter each a bit unique and Johnny will review the highlights later.
Looking to the end of 2015 and into 2016 we expect this highly competitive environment to continue and it could be further obfuscated by possible increases in interest rates.
As such we will remain disciplined in our pursuit of opportunities.
As to dispositions our major transformation was completed in 2014 but as mentioned we will continue to improve the quality of our portfolio.
During the third quarter we closed 29 million of dispositions and subsequent to quarter end sold an additional property and a land parcel for $14 million bringing our year-to-date sales to about $107 million.
Sales activity remained strong so we may consider accelerating our disposition.
It's too early to call it but this could possibly push us to the high end or above our guidance range of $125 million to $175 million for 2015.
Now let me switch gears to our new development activities.
We're making great progress on all four projects under development.
Our Hilltop development in DC anchored by Wegmans and LA Fitness is over 98% leased.
We have 188 000 square feet paying rent and the majority of the remaining space is anticipated to commence in the fourth quarter.
At our Wake Forest development in the Raleigh market weve commenced rents on about 90 000 square feet of space.
This is particularly impressive as the time from our purchasing the land to commencing rent occurred in a little over 12 months.
This was a unique opportunity and highlights the strength of our development team.
At Nottingham Commons our newest addition to the pipeline in White Marsh Maryland leasing is progressing nicely.
Weve executed leases with T.J.
Maxx Ross PETCO and MOMs a value oriented organic market with locations in Maryland Pennsylvania Virginia and DC.
Demand for shop space is strong with several small shop merchants already signed.
Signed occupancy already stands over 80% with construction commencing next month.
Tenants should start opening in the third quarter of 2016.
The Whittaker in West Seattle is a six story mixed-use project being co-developed with Lennar.
Our 63 000 square foot retail portion is anchored by Whole Foods.
Lennar has begun construction and they anticipate delivering their retail portion to us in late 2016.
Our Walter Reed development continues to move forward with the closing on the land expected to occur in 2016.
Development of the majority of the retail component will probably commence in 2008.
We are thrilled that during the quarter we were selected as the master developer for the redevelopment of the Atlanta Civic Center.
Our team won this competitive process to control this 19 acre mixed-use development in a densely populated trade area adjacent to the north end of downtown Atlanta.
We are in preliminary planning and we estimate up to 200 000 square feet of retail plus residential and office components.
The investment in the retail portion is estimated at 70 million with the total project cost around 300 million.
We are early in the process and expect to open in late 2018 or 2019.
We are pursuing other development opportunities and we're optimistic about our preliminary pipeline.
We will remain sensitive to risks but we're pleased with the shareholder value created by our efforts in new development.
Steve the financial results? Thanks Drew.
I'm pleased to once again report strong earnings.
Reported FFO was $0.56 per diluted share for the quarter compared to $0.52 per share in the prior year.
Recurring FFO for the quarter was also $0.56 compared to $0.53 per share in the prior year.
This represents a per share increase in recurring FFO of 5.7% over the prior year even though the full year effect of our 2014 disposition program as well as our current year sales have cost us about $0.03 per share.
FFO for the third quarter benefited from a strong increase in same property NOI our new development and redevelopment activity and to a lesser extent our current year acquisitions.
Additionally we benefited from favorable refinancing activities including our new five year $200 million term loan closed in the first quarter as well as the redemption of our remaining preferred shares offset by our disposition activity.
Also weve commenced the implementation of a new integrated business management software otherwise referred to as an ERP system that will be completed next year.
This resulted in additional G&amp;A expense of $550 000 for September of this year.
I expect additional G&amp;A expense of around $800 000 in the fourth quarter and $250 000 in 2016 to complete the system implementation.
These costs will be included in our recurring FFO number.
As to the balance sheet our acquisition outlays were self funded with proceeds from dispositions and our debt maturities were insignificant.
Accordingly our debt ratios remain very strong at quarter-end with our net debt to EBITDA at 5.9 times and our debt to total market cap at 33.7%.
Moving to 2015 guidance we are tightening our guidance for recurring FFO to a range of $2.16 to $2.18 per diluted share and for reported FFO to a range of $2.04 to $2.
06 per diluted share.
All of the other details of our guidance remain unchanged or included on page nine of the supplemental package.
Our press release last night announced a $200 million share repurchase program approved by the board in yesterday's meeting.
With the extreme volatility we have experienced in the stock market and specifically within the REIT space we felt it was prudent to put this program into place.
As we've discussed with many of you we would only use it if there was a significant discount to NAV.
Johnny? Good morning.
We're excited that portfolio continues to produce excellent results.
Tenant demand remains modest but we have a strong tailwind with existing space highly occupied and very low levels of new supply.
75% of our NOI comes from centers with a supermarket component and we have 117 discount junior department stores.
These anchor tenants continue to drive customers to our smaller retailers and service providers.
Our supermarkets average $588 per square foot which represents more than 80 000 customers a month visiting our centers.
All in all business is good.
The Houston economy has performed better than we expected even with low energy prices.
Houston had incredible job growth the previous five years with 105 000 jobs created in 2014 that however slowed considerably.
The Greater Houston Partnership has estimated that the city will create 20 000 jobs in 2015.
Still we have not seen significant impact on our centers or demand for the very little vacant space we have available.
Its important to remember only 16% of our AVR come from Houston properties.
And these properties that primarily service superzips are very strong.
A couple of stats really drive home that strength.
Our Houston same property occupancy is 96.9% and year-to-date rent growth is 17% both outstanding numbers.
This rent growth is a blend of new leases at 39% impacted by a couple of strong unique deals and renewals at 13%.
Not a single one of those renewals was negative.
I still think Houston has some economic weakness ahead but Weingartens properties are very strong and I believe we will continue to be productive.
Many of you have visited us in Houston recently.
Folks have been impressed with the strength of the city and especially our transformed Houston portfolio that has an average household income in a three mile radius of $110 000.
We invite you all to come see and let us show you why we feel so strongly that our properties in Houston will withstand economic conditions.
Turning to the broad numbers same property NOI for the quarter was 3%.
It's worth noting that the number was really driven by the base minimum rent which was up 3.2%.
So far for the year we've averaged 3.7% same property NOI and expect to finish the year around 3.5% which would be within the current guidance range.
These numbers include a few of our small redevelopments as shown on page 12 of the supplemental.
If we were to include all redevelopments our same property for the whole quarter would have been 5.7% and year-to-date 4.7%.
Rent growth was excellent this quarter and I think reflective of the overall market conditions and the quality of our portfolio.
New leases increased 19% with renewals up 9%.
All of our markets with the exception of some parts of California have returned to peak rents we saw in 2007.
We ended the quarter with occupancy at 95.1%.
This is slightly ahead of a year ago but a little less than last quarter.
My expectation is we will see overall occupancy climb toward 96% in 2016 but we're focused on increasing rent.
So if we lose a tenant here or there well accept that.
Our major markets are all over 94% and the states of Florida Colorado and North Carolina ended the quarter with signed occupancy already over 96%.
Occupancy was impacted a little by the fallout of Anna's Linens.
We had nine stores with them and have already released three and have letters of intent working on five others.
We are also watching Haggens bankruptcy.
We had two former bonds leases assigned to Haggens and both of those stores are now closed.
Bonds which is Albertsons is still obligated for five years lease term on both and we have good prospect.
So its not going to be much of an impact for us.
Leasing velocity remains strong.
We executed 291 new leases and renewals during the quarter thats a 125 new leases per $8 million in annualized base minimum rent about the same as we leased in the third quarter a year ago.
Demand for quality retail space has been consistent all across our footprint.
We continue to see absorption from both niche supermarkets and regional grocers.
Discount clothing footwear pet stores are also expanding along with a wide variety of medical and service uses.
We're also pleased with four unique acquisitions we closed during the quarter for $61 million.
First we closed on Trenton Crossing in McAllen Texas.
Its a Target anchored shopping center with Marshalls Ross Hobby Lobby PetSmart and Bealls.
Sales at this location are in the top of these retailers nationwide averages and rents are in $9 to $10 range.
Thats a nice combination.
We continue to be bullish on Texas border towns as these are hubs for shoppers from Mexico.
Even with the strong dollar versus peso sales during the late summer and early fall have held steady and legal border crossings have increased.
Our second acquisition was Wake Forest Crossing in Raleigh North Carolina.
This center is anchored by Lowes supermarket and adjacent to Weingartens new development which is anchored by Kohls Ross T.J.Maxx and Michaels.
We will likely combine the properties for sale in 2016 as our development nears stabilization.
We also closed on two small [Technical Difficulty] that may play a part in future redevelopments.
We haven't seen much movement in cap rates over the last six months.
Generally there is still 4.5% 5.5% for gateway markets and 5% to 6% in most other metropolitan markets with supermarket anchored assets still commanding the highest prices.
There is still a lot of money chasing properties.
Year-to-date we've acquired $234 million in new property and as of now we don't have much in the pipeline that could be closed in 2015.
We continue to grow the company through redevelopments as well.
We currently have eight active redevelopments underway and six completed this year.
We expect to invest a total of $76 million for an average return of around 12% in these 14 properties.
Please note our enhanced new development and redevelopment disclosure on page 12 of the supplemental.
So business was good for the quarter.
Same-property up 3% 5.7% with redevelopments strong base minimum rent increases leasing velocity is steady outstanding rental growth with new leases up 19% and a few nice acquisitions.
Drew? Thanks Johnny.
Our performance in 2015 has been very good.
Were especially pleased that the strength of our operations continues as this clearly validates the success of our transformation.
Investing capital remains challenging but we've uncovered some unique opportunities.
We remain optimistic that new development will accelerate with the ever dwindling supply of quality space.
Like last year we plan to communicate 2016 guidance around year-end.
I'd like to thank all of our associates for their efforts great people great properties and a great platform equals great results.
I thank all of you for joining the call today and for your continued interest in Weingarten.
Operator we'd now be happy to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question online comes from Christy McElroy from Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone.
Just with regard to your share buyback program recognizing the volatility in the market could present opportunities what is your appetite to buy back shares at the current level? Steve you mentioned you would only use it if your stock was trading at a significant discount to any of these so would you use it today? Good morning Christy.
As we noted in the prepared remarks we would only be willing to buy back stock if it was a significant discount to NAV.
If you look at all of the analysts numbers and so forth we're clearly nowhere close to the 10% or 15% -- 15% or 20% number that we would look at in order to buy back stock.
So fortunately the market has recovered and we don't anticipate anything but we certainly wanted to have that in our tool box in case the market did soften once again.
Just to clarify you still expect an accelerated pace at this position into the fourth quarter and into 2016? Good morning Christy its Drew.
You know what we tried to highlight to be as clear as we could be with the Street was that its a possibility.
We've thought about things the last month or so we come into the Board meeting weve had a bunch of people approach us and it is seems to us that there's the possibility that some of what we've been planning to sell in 16 could get a little bit accelerated.
So it is possible that we could end up at the high end of our '15 guidance or maybe even a little bit over it for 15 and then some of what we've always talked about selling in '16 could be a little frontloaded.
Its a little early to say.
Well know more as we do our year-end release with our guidance for 16.
Its just something we see taking advantage of a strong market have been approached by some folks for 1031s and other things.
So we wanted to get as much communication to the Street as we could but it is something that's in the very preliminary possible stages at this time.
Okay.
And then my second question is on Houston.
Can you sort of discuss transaction market trends in the market and given that there may be somewhat of a perception overhang on the market.
What's your appetite today to maybe take advantage of that by assets and some of the stronger markets in which you operate? And Johnny I'm not sure if I missed this but what was same-store NOI growth in Q3 for Houston? Hey Christy good morning.
You know the transactions that we've seen over the last several months would give us an indication that cap rates have remained steady a large power center went under contract for about a 6 cap 7 to suburbs supermarket-anchored shopping center went under contract in the suburbs for about a 6.2.
These havent closed yet and certainly the properties that had closed were actually under contract no longer ago but would reflect the same thing that cap rates have remained relatively steady.
I think there probably has a muted number of transactions.
So that could support the idea that perhaps cap rates have moved a little.
I would tell you that on the quality of our assets its hard for me to imagine that cap rates have moved much at all.
When you look at River Oaks Shopping Center Post Oak Shopping Center Richmond Bunker Hill those are trophy assets that are going to remain strong over time.
In Houston our same-property NOI was 4.5% so again strong.
Sometimes that is a lagging indicator.
But I got to tell you that what we're seeing when we have a space come available is continue to be a very very high demand.
And one of the things that Id like to highlight is that over the last five or six years Houston has added over a million people and a lot of those people are inside the loop and around the areas where our shopping centers are and development has been very very muted.
Weve been in competition with apartment developers and office buildings and you really haven't seen much retail space built.
So I think that we still have an environment where we can continue to push rents and the property that we have is very very desirable.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question online comes from Mr.
Craig Smith from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
At the Atlanta Civic Center you won the competitive process but at this point are you investing money in it or is there a trip day [ph] when you'll have to invest money? Good morning Craig its Drew.
As you mentioned just  it was just a few weeks ago that we won the bid so things are very preliminary.
So we're spending some money in terms of architects fees engineers fees consultants et cetera as we start to plan it but it's not significant and were still very much in the preliminary stages of figuring this out.
There is a 170 000 people in 3 miles it's an underserved location that is definitely becoming stronger.
Were very proud of our team and the success that we've had in these competitions.
Got a lot of interest in the folks who would do the apartments the office components even some hotel stuff.
The Atlanta ICSC was earlier this week and I dont have the full reports but the preliminary reports I have from our team lot of interest from all the good retailers the grocers the full line and the specialty as well as of course all the promotional soft good standards.
So it's early.
Well know a lot more at our next call.
We're excited about it proud of the team but a lot of work left to be done before we really have our plans nailed down.
And these JVs and mixed use type projects are they becoming more interesting to Weingarten as they go forward? I have to say yes.
You look at our success so far in Seattle our involvement in Walter Reed you look at the broader landscape of where people want to live today and it's a lot of what people want its a lot of what the tenants want its a lot of where people want to live.
So it is something that well be very sensitive to.
I could see us getting involved possibly in the residential part in some way depending how the layout works out and how integrated the residential is with the retail.
I think its very unlikely that we are involved in the hotel we sell that off to somebody we must likely sell the office off to somebody.
So again its something that we have done a decent amount of and involved in projects like 8000 Sunset as well as other projects in Denver and its a big part of where the growth is.
Thank you.
Our next question on line comes from Lina Rudashevski from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Actually its Mike Mueller here.
So going back to the possibility of increasing asset sales and I know you're going to give the guidance out and as you mentioned probably in early 16 but can you give us some sort of a framework for how you think about just normalized disposition levels in any given year and then to the extent that you do ramp up dispositions more I mean just some sort of sense of magnitude because I can imagine if you went out of your way to put this in the press release youre talking about going from 100 million to 125 million or something like that.
So any color would be appreciated.
Good morning Mike.
It's Drew.
And I appreciate that.
Were also not looking at something as big as equity residential either.
So as you know we've talked about the transformation the completion of the transformation being basically complete but then is also is laid out in our maps and everything that we will continue to sell property and the range that we had talked about for this year of 125 million to 175 million is a reasonable range to think about that calling of the 3% to 5% of the portfolio that we would do on a regular routine basis.
So as we looked at things in August basically as things started to turn down we looked at a lot of opportunities to sell some things that if everything comes together and again its very preliminary and perhaps we have made more out of this than it mirrors but we're trying to be as clear with the Street as we can be that there is the possibility that we could end up around the 175 or maybe a little over it for 2015.
And then when we look at that 2016 number that a lot of where that number ends up could be more towards the front of the year.
So again well know more when we do our press release around the end of the year and well certainly communicate that more.
So it is something that its an opportunity we look at the pricing on some of these things it looks very good to us relative to our NAV and it is something that we want to take advantage of what we think are some pretty strong conditions.
Okay.
So do you think its safe to characterize it this way where youre not necessarily looking at significantly ramping up the volume in 2016 if it happens but maybe keeping a similar level but potentially front-end loading it more? Is that fairly accurate? Yes I think that's reasonable.
Okay.
And then just a quick one for Steve it looks like the deferred compensation investment income turned negative in the quarter.
I was wondering what drove that and then what's a good run rate for going forward? Good morning.
You are correct.
It did go negative obviously that's driven by stock returns except et cetera.
There is no P&amp;L effect on that Mike.
It all works out between compensation and so forth.
So I don't know what the run rate because I don't really know what the market is going to do going forward but bottom line it doesnt affect FFO.
Its a wash.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question on line comes from Jay Carlington from Green Street Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Was there either any other projects in the shadow pipeline become less of a priority with right on your plate now? No.
Good morning Jay.
Its Drew.
We've got a strong team.
We've got -- these are all good projects and they are all things that will continue work on as well as I mentioned there are some other things that are likewise preliminary and well be very sensitive to the risks both from a tenant entitlement et cetera perspective but as I commented on before a lot of these projects are very dense in-field complicated projects but also with a tremendous amount of population and pent-up demand.
And if you look at our existing development pipeline and the hilltops and a lot of the other projects are completing and you look at the multi-year nature of a lot of these projects and then of course the case of Walter Reed were not the master developer there but were very focused on the retail and have incredible interest.
So we see it as a nice but manageable in the size of the company pipeline that we feel can definitely add shareholder value.
So do you think you're appropriately staffed up at current levels to handle these projects? Well have to add some more folks if these -- if and as these things come together in the construction area and leasing area in the sort of project coordinating area.
We've got a good amount of people outsourcing deals in the future but there will be if all goes according to plan conference calls in the future whoever were talking about some overhead increases and everything as well development is profitable and it's profitable after overhead cost it does take people and when it comes to the construction the project management even some leasing folks well have to add over the next few years.
Okay.
And I guess Johnny just on the implied cap rates on dispositions theyve been trending lower sequentially I guess from the call it 8% earlier in the year to 6% on the recent batch.
So I know there is a lot of noise there but is there anything to read in terms of the types of assets you are now selling from a quality perspective? Good morning.
Its Drew again because I actually handle a lot of the day-to-day for Johnny after [indiscernible] help him since he took so much more on his plate.
So yes you are exactly right as we talked about with the transformation ending there is a compression in cap rates and we want to continue to hone the map we want to continue to eliminate risk but we are seeing a noticeable as you say change in cap rates.
There will be some exceptions and quarter to quarter it will vary but the bulk of it is we are seeing that cap rate improvement.
We are also making some progress a little bit fewer on the unimproved land.
So having sold a nice track of that post-quarter of course from a cap rate perspective selling land really helps out your averages.
Okay.
But just to clarify the lower cap rates is that some cap rate compression or is it just the quality of the assets that you're selling? It's probably a bit of both what you say Johnny? Yeah.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question on line comes from Jeremy Metz from UBS.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
In terms of the same store you mentioned this quarter I think maybe for the first time that all redevelopments would have added about 270 basis points of same-store results.
Obviously this is a pretty big impact.
So I'm just interested maybe in the components here where redevelopments are dragged a year ago so some of this is just a turn maybe from negative to positive NOI and then as a second part to that question I think you said a few were in the 3% quarterly results.
So I'm just wondering what drives the determination of which to include or exclude from your more core same-store results? Hey good morning Jeremy.
Yeah we thought that it would be helpful to include the same-store NOI with all of the remodels.
Traditionally we have used some of the very small remodels that frankly impact you slightly coming in and impact you slightly going out during the remodel.
This quarter in particular if we hadn't used any remodels it still would have been the same 3%.
So you can say it's not a big driver on that side.
We did have a couple of larger redevelopments that are we have the tenants who have been paying rent now particularly and then the LA Fitness at Brookwood and what we've tried to do is be clear what weve included and what we haven't included in the supplemental.
So I would take a look at that and I think it is clear again the very very strong remodels if I'm going to building down and build a new floater building then I'm trying to get negative on the way in Im getting positive on the way out but frankly it's just not that much money and we just always try to give you as much information as possible.
Okay.
And I guess my second question is just as it relates to some language in the press release some concern over sluggishness in the economy so I guess if I just ignore Houston here and your markets are you observing anything in particular on the ground that is making you more cautious today than maybe a few months ago or even earlier this year? This is Drew.
Good morning.
No.
I think we see the same things that everybody else sees that I think the GDP numbers worldwide concerns about China et cetera income growth or lack thereof play on everybody's mind.
So as I talked to our retailers and Johnny talks to them everything is sort of pretty good its is not super-duper great and of course the main thing that we've said that makes our business so good is the total lack of a lot of new supply and even the increase in development that weve talked about earlier in the call of course most of those projects won't come on for years and years and years.
So I still think the supply demand balance will remain in a very good position so the grocers the promotional tenants the basic goods and services retailers and service tenants who occupy our shopping centers are doing pretty well even in an economy that in our view and I think most economists view is a recovery but a pretty mediocre bumpy boring and very gradual recovery.
Okay thank you.
Our next question on line comes from Mr.
Jim Sullivan from Cowen Group.
Please go ahead.
Good morning thank you.
Drew I am curious with the lets call it the continued expansion in the development pipeline of these mix use projects and kind of following on from the question earlier from Craig Smith I'm trying to determine whether you are expanding these type of projects which are not typical historical Weingarten type projects because of the lack of call it conventional greenfield kind of ground up development on the one hand or whether its driven by the higher projected development yields and perhaps also higher projected same-store NOI growth or is it just a combination of all three? It's a combination of those things combined with the fact that its where a lot of the growth in residences is its where the tenants want to be.
So we have done some of it over the years and we will certainly be judicious about it but its really a combination of everything its what the tenants want its what the consumers want its what the residents its what the so-called and even a lot of boomers et cetera want are the so-called live work play environment.
Its where the tenants are focused.
So its all that that comes together and we will be judicious about it and dot our Is and cross our T but it is something that we are pleased with the opportunities that we see at Walter Reed in the Civic Center and West Seattle et cetera.
And tell me given the complexity of doing these projects and given that they often times involve property types that youre less familiar with or have less experience with.
Is there a high on hurdle rate in terms of returns or conversely if you believe the same property NOI growth is going to be superior if they are in fact the opposite or lower hurdle rate.
I think we're able to get comparable returns and then as you say I think at the end of the day we have a more secure product that we think over time will do better.
So for those reasons the comparable going in return and better security and growth over time we think it's a very good risk-adjusted return.
The other thing that plays into is because these things are so complicated you can work through a lot of the complications and line up everything so you can also take a lot of the risk out.
So it's not like you're going and building on a Greenfield in advance of all the people the people are there and the cities landowners et cetera et cetera on these infield deals appreciate that you're going to have everything worked out.
And you'll have some pursuit cost with that but you wont buy the land in most cases you won't have a whole lot of money at risk.
And so you really have a pretty good handle on what you're doing.
So we think it's -- hopefully articulating this pretty well we think its a very good risk return scenario and it's also driven by what the people and by that I mean the consumers and tenants is what people want today.
Okay and then kind a related question.
The company has a land portfolio some of it is held for sale some of it for development.
And I tend to assume that most of that land was assembled for what I'll call conventional historical development patterns.
And I'm just curious whether we should assume that were going to see more of that land being sold? We think were making very nice progress I mentioned the sale which was to Sam's store in the Raleigh area and were hopeful that with the sale of about half of that track that we will have a future development there of the next phase of that project.
And were working on some of the other parcels some of which will be sales to other users and then some of which will trigger developments and redevelopments.
So it is something we think were making nice progress on.
It does take a long time so in any particular quarter we don't always make a lot of progress.
So the sale this quarter which is some things have been working for a while we are very pleased with and optimistic that it will lead to some other development.
Okay then final question from me.
We did have the Republican debate this week and one of the major topics that comes up in every one of these is immigration policy and kind of following on the comments the prepared comments about assets closer to the border.
I just wonder when you hear the immigration policy alternatives discussed whether there any policy options that would be particularly positive or negative for that part of your portfolio.
Without taking the rest of the day on politics let me just say quickly as Johnny mentioned that the shoppers who are in in our centers are making legal border crossings buying a lot of goods going back to Mexico and I don't think there has really been any serious discussion that we would stop those legal crossings.
So the immigration policy is a whole different subject from the fact that every day thousands of people come over especially on the weekends many thousands of people shop go back to Mexico because there are hundreds of thousands of people who live in northern Mexico and it's a very underserved Johnny is telling me it's millions it's a very underserved area.
So I don't think there is any serious discussion to stop those legal crossings.
Good thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Rich Moore from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys good morning.
You're going to be a net acquirer this year.
What you think about next year so youre thinking the same terms that even though you got these dispositions lined up for the January time period you'll probably be overall a net acquirer? Good morning Rich it's Drew.
Well as I said we are seeing some opportunities so you're right mathematically in 15 we will be a net acquirer.
You know 16 its a little harder to call that it is something we will remain focused but also disciplined on the acquisition side so it's really hard to know what opportunities may or may not present themselves.
We're very pleased with Baybrook acquisition that we did earlier this year.
When we were on this call a year ago we didnt know about that deal I mean that was a wonderful deal that came up very quickly.
So acquisition is very hard to forecast we know well be disciplined.
Dispositions I think we have a lot more clarity that it looks like there could be some good opportunities there.
So while we'll get out specific guidance towards the end of the year if one wanted to think about 16 being approximately neutral that should be reasonably close.
Okay alright good thanks Drew.
So Im just trying to figure out if you -- even if it's neutral or if you have some net positive and then of course you have what appears to be an expanding development pipeline and you guys it's nice disclosure you added by the way thanks you you have some redevelopments as well obviously that youre adding.
I'm not sure why you would be inclined to want to buy back stock with that kind of opportunity set it seems like you're going to hold on to the capital and see what comes up? As hopefully we articulated what we thought was the right thing was to have the tools in toolbox to have the Board and passed it and be in a position to take advantage of things if the market changes.
Given the rebound in the stock given as Steve said we would want to see significant discount to NAV in the number that we kicked around most frequently with that is a 15% discount I think were more 15 to 20 than anything below that.
So at this point as we sit it's a tool that going to stay in the toolbox for hopefully a long time but we thought it was prudent to just have it available because we think our job is to allocate capital and if we got into a situation more significant than we saw in middle August we wanted to be ready to take advantage of what we would see as an opportunity.
All right good thank you.
And then Im not sure I understood this correctly but were you saying basically the weight force to sort of a merchant build project i.e.
youre going to take the other phase that you just bought and put it with the one you're building and then sell that project at some point in time.
Rich I'm not sure that were a system in favor these days but it is -- No I know it's not.
It is something that we you know it is something that opportunistically selling it and our ability to buy the area next door and therefore have a grocery anchor center and take advantage of the cap rate it is something that as Johnny mentioned in his remarks we've also been approached by some people who are perhaps interested in it.
So it's something we'll give some strong consideration to.
Again we think it's the right long-term it could be the right long-term thing.
So its really more of an opportunistic [indiscernible] as opposed to a notion that might go out and do merchant building again I guess? It was definitely opportunistic.
We do not see a lot of new merchant building in ours or anybody elses future.
Got you okay great.
Thank you guys.
Our next question comes from Tammi Fique from Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
I'm sorry if I've missed this but just looking at the FFO guidance increase for 2015 it looks like the underlying components werent unchanged.
And then with the potential dispositions to get accelerated I guess I'm just sort of wondering what is driving that guidance higher this year? Good morning Tammi this is Steve.
Look the guidance was slightly increased a $0.01 at the midpoint there is a lot of moving pieces.
Operations are clearly strong.
Probably one of the other issue is the time of acquisition dispositions.
If we are successful or we do windup selling some more properties between now and end of the year given the timing they just won't drive the FFO for 15.
So it's really we've had very strong performance thus far and looking at Q4 we don't see a lot of that anything changing there.
So that was the reason we felt comfortable taking away the lower end of the guidance.
Okay great thanks.
And then you spoke about I guess last quarter about the boxes closing in the back half of the year and that potentially wearing on occupancy and then I guess you mentioned in your opening remarks about Anna's Linens I guess did all of that activity occur in the third quarter or shall we expect anchor occupancy to dip again sequentially in the fourth quarter? Good morning Tammi.
I would say we are the best we can see today pretty well done with that.
I think that we tried to signal that occupancy could be a little bit erratic but I think from here my guess is my hope is we will go up and I think we are on our way to do that.
Okay thats all me.
Thank you.
And at this time I see we have no further questions in queue.
I'd now turn the call over to Drew Alexander for closing remarks.
Thank you Richard.
Well I just want to wish everybody a happy Halloween look forward to seeing many of you at NAREIT that should be a lot of fun as well.
And I know a lot of you have ready signed up for the tour that we have of some of our Vegas assets and to meet our team on the ground there in Las Vegas that's just before NAREIT starts but look forward to seeing many of you then and obviously could make a few more slots available if we need to.
So have a great weekend everybody.
Thanks so much well be around if there are other questions and enjoy Halloween.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating you may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Weingarten Realty Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
My name is Brandon and I'll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note this conference is being recorded.
And I will now turn it over to Michelle Wiggs.
Michelle you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter 2015 conference call.
Joining me today is Drew Alexander President and CEO; Stanford Alexander Chairman; Johnny Hendrix Executive Vice President and COO; Steve Richter Executive Vice President and CFO; and Joe Shafer Senior Vice President and CAO.
As a reminder certain statements made during the course of this call are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.
Actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
More information about these factors is contained in the company's SEC filings.
Also during this conference call management may make reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures such as funds from operations or FFO both recurring and reported which we believe help analysts and investors to better understand Weingarten's operating results.
Reconciliation to these non-GAAP financial measures is available in our supplemental information package located under the Investor Relations tab of our website.
I will now turn the call over to Drew Alexander.
Thank you Michelle and thanks to all of you for joining us.
Please bear with me today I've got a bit of a cold.
We finished 2015 with another great quarter featuring strong operations great acquisitions and additional strategic dispositions.
It was a fitting conclusion to year that highlighted the success of our portfolio transformation and our ability to effectively allocate our capital to high-growth opportunities while maintaining a solid balance sheet.
Operations remained strong.
Five years ago we were concentrated on increasing occupancy of our portfolio as we emerged from the recession.
Over the last couple of years with very little bit retail space being built and a portfolio greatly enhanced modern transformational capital recycling program we refocused our efforts on aggressively increasing rental rates strengthening our tendency and repositioning many of our assets.
In 2015 we were very successful in accomplishing each of the strategic initiatives.
With all the attention on the energy industry Johnny will talk about the Houston market and the performance of our Houston portfolio a little later.
But I wanted to make an important observation.
A successful as our transformation initiative was there was no single market more dramatically impacted by these efforts in Houston.
Many of you have seen our map of Houston that shows all the centers that we have sold over the last five years and the current centers located and are serving super-zips.
This map dramatically depicts the remarkable improvement a super transformation if you would.
You can see this on the energy factsheet on our website that was updated last night.
Today around 16% of Weingarten's ABR comes from Houston and represents some of the strongest properties in our portfolio with an average household income of $110 000.
Our tendency in these properties is exceptional with 76% of our Houston ABR coming from national and regional tenants.
Our local tenants are strong operators who have been in business and our centers on average nine years.
The point being our Houston portfolio is stronger than ever and well positioned to remain relatively unaffected by the energy downturn.
Turning to acquisition it continues to be challenging.
For the full year 2015 we acquired a property for $268 million.
This included a couple of future redevelopments a great addition to our outstanding South Texas portfolio and quality centers in Florida and Arizona.
That will enhance our already strong line ups in those markets.
I am extremely pleased with the unique opportunities we are able to identify and close on in 2015.
We are also active on the disposition front.
During the fourth quarter we sold four properties another real estate for $33 million of special significance the company exited the States of South Carolina and Oklahoma.
For the year we sold 15 income producing properties and other real estate for $126 million and then subsequent to year end we sold Rainbow Plaza in Las Vegas for $66 million.
Now let me switch gears to our new development activities.
We are making great progress on all four projects under development.
Our Hilltop development in DC is 100% leased.
We stabilize this Wegman property and investment of $65 million at the beginning of the year with an 8% yield obviously significant value creation.
At our Lake Forest development in the Realty market you'll notice our occupancy dropped slightly this quarter as we expanded the development by adding 15 000 square feet into new multi-tenant buildings due to tenant demand.
We are nearly 92% leased and have commenced rents on that 90 000 square feet space.
At Nottingham Commons in White Marsh Maryland leasing is progressing nicely.
Leases are signed with TJ Maxx Ross PETCO and MOM's a value-oriented organic market.
And we recently signed a lease with DSW which is the last anchor space in the project.
Signed occupancy already stands over 80% with construction commencing last quarter.
Tenants should start opening in the third quarter of 2016.
The Whittaker in West Seattle is a six-story mixed-use project being co-developed with Lennar.
Our 65 000 square foot retail portion is anchored by a 41 000 square foot Whole Foods and now anticipates delivering the retail portion by early next year and leasing is going well.
Our Walter redevelopment continues to move forward with the closing on a portion of the land expected to occur this year.
Development of the majority of the retail component will probably commence in 2018.
At the Atlanta Civic Center on the north end of the downtown Atlanta we have continued our preliminary planning and we estimate up to 200 000 square feet of retail plus residential and office components.
The current investment in the retail portion is estimated at $70 million with total project cost around $300 million.
We are still early in the process and expect to open this the project in late 2018 or 2019.
We are pursuing other development opportunities and we are optimistic about our primarily pipeline.
We will remain sensitive to risks but we are pleased with the shareholder value created by our efforts and new development.
It was a great year on all fronts.
And I'll now turn it over to Steve for the details of the financials.
Thank you Drew.
I'm pleased to once again report strong earnings results.
Reported FFO was $0.57 per diluted share for the quarter compared to $0.51 per share in the prior year.
Recurring FFO for the quarter was $0.56 per share compared to $0.51 per share in the prior year.
This represents a per share increase in recurring FFO of 9.8% over the prior year.
FFO for the fourth quarter benefited from an increase in same property NOI of 2.1% our new development and redevelopment activity and to a lesser extent our current year acquisitions.
Additionally we have benefited from favorable refinancing activity including our new five year $200 million term loan closed in the first quarter as well as the redemption of our remaining preferred shares offset by our disposition activity.
For the year reported FFO was $2.07 per diluted share compared to $2.06 per share for 2014.
Reported FFO for 2015 includes redemption cost for preferred shares and the write-off of debt cost on refinancing that were not included in recurring FFO.
For 2015 recurring FFO was $2.18 per diluted share compared to $2.05 per share for 2014 an increase of 6.3%.
We are really proud of these results especially when one considers that disposition cost us $0.11 per share of FFO when compared to the prior year.
As mentioned last quarter we commenced the implementation of a new ERP system that will be completed this year.
This resulted in additional G&amp;A expense of $1 million for the fourth quarter and $1.6 million of all of 2015.
I expect an additional G&amp;A expense of around $400 000 in 2016 to complete the implementation.
These costs will be included in our recurring FFO number.
As to the balance sheet with the majority of our acquisitions funded with proceeds from dispositions combined with the issuance of $40.8 million of common shares under our ATM program interest in the first half of the year we have maintained strong debt ratios.
At year end our net debt-to-EBITDA was 5.82 times and our debt-to-total market cap was 32.8%.
As to 2016 we are affirming our guidance for both recurring and reported FFO in accordance with NAREIT's definition.
As announced last month guidance for recurring FFO was in the range of $2.27 to $2.31 per diluted share.
Reported FFO is in the range of $2.26 to $2.31 per share.
This assumes acquisitions ranging from $125 million to $225 million and dispositions of $125 million to $225 million.
We have forecast new development and redevelopment investment in the range of $50 million to $100 million.
All of the details of our guidance are included on page nine of our supplemental.
Finally our Board declared a 5.8% annual dividend increase to a $1.46 per share from a $1.38 per share.
This equates to an FFO payout ratio of 64% using the midpoint of our FFO guidance.
Johnny? Thanks Steve.
We feel great about the performance of our portfolio in 2015.
Rent growth was very good at 12.5%.
New leases were up over 21% and renewals were up almost 10%.
Same-property NOI increased 3.3% mostly driven by 3.2% increase in base minimum rent.
Occupancy ended the year at 95.1%.
We have a robust redevelopment pipeline totaling $78 million with an expected return of almost 14%.
During the year we acquired eight very good shopping centers.
These assets average 107 000 people in three miles with household incomes of $100 000 and 53% have college degrees.
One of those is a center we purchased during the fourth quarter the Westside Center in Los Angeles.
We paid $25 million for the property.
It has 324 000 people in a three mile radius with an average household income of $112 000 and 65% of adults or college graduates.
The initial return on this property is 4.5% and should be around 5.7% by our third year of ownership.
The longest lease on the property including options is about 11 years and current rents are well under market.
We can achieve over 5% compound annual growth under current conditions but much better if we can recapture some space in re-tenant centre.
The fundamentals of our business have remained consistent over the last couple of years and we dont see much change in the near term.
Retailer demand remains tepid but high occupancy rates and the dearth of new supply have tilted negotiating leverage towards landlords.
We still see the best demand for discount closing supermarkets service tenants and restaurants.
Its important we take advantage of this environment upgrading our tenant base and increasing rents where we can.
Over the last several quarters weve taken a more aggressive position pushing rents and upgrading tenant quality.
As an example during 2015 we signed a lease with CVS in our 8 000 Sunset shopping center.
We elected not to renew a local day spa.
As a result well have great synergy between the new CVS and existing trader Joes and we have dramatically improved the credit profile.
This sort of remerchandising will continue to be our focus.
Across the portfolio weve identified more than 500 000 square feet we would like to recapture either to buyouts or lease explorations over the next 24 months.
Our operating numbers could be a little choppy as we have down time on remerchandising spaces.
But long term this effort will result in higher rents and improved credit profile.
But just to be clear were still going to post good competitive operating metrics and we anticipate meeting the guidance weve outlined.
Drew will give you an overview on Houston so let me give you some details.
For the economy as a whole job growth slowed in 2015 and we ended up the year slightly positive.
There are many projections out there for 2016 but most anticipate job growth will be flat.
Clearly the office market has suffered the greatest distress particularly the Westside of Houston.
Multi family has also experienced some headwind.
For Weingarten our properties have not been negatively impacted.
Over the last five years the city has added more than 600 000 people and during that time most of the new retail space was built in the suburbs say 20 miles or more from Downtown.
In contrast more than 50% of the net operating income of our properties is within 5 miles of the Galleria very infill areas where theres still an imbalance of supply and demand.
Our Houston properties are anchored by strong grocers with sales averaging $589 square foot.
Weve seen no weakening of our operations and at the end of 2015 our same property occupancy in Houston was 96.5%.
Our same property NOI for the fourth quarter in Houston was 4.2% rent growth for new leases was 46%.
Overall rent growth new leases and renewals was 25%.
Through 2015 our Houston properties average base rent increased $1.17 from $17.2 to $18.19.
We believe despite energy prices that our shopping centers will remain resilient.
Let me give you an example of that resilience were observing.
We found out late last year a local retailer who operates four stores was not going to renew an 8000 square foot lease in a center we own near the Galleria.
Last week not last year but just a couple of days ago we signed a new lease to replace that tenant for a similar use with a national operator who has hundreds of locations and were increasing their rent over 40%.
This is not an unusual story in Houston retail today.
I have similar situations over the last couple of months where we are replacing tenants quickly and at higher rents.
We have a great portfolio including Houston and a season team to navigate this cycle successfully.
We look forward to the challenge and invite each of you to come see our properties and whats happening here.
Drew? Thanks Johnny.
2015 was a very good year.
Operations were great.
We found some unique acquisition opportunities and our new development and redevelopments efforts continue to bear fruit.
As we look forward to 2016 we'll cautiously optimistic will continue to see quality assets come to market but as usual there will be strong competition and will be very focused and select their efforts.
Looking longer term we at Weingarten have experienced many cycles.
In fact that gives us a lot of comfort today is the relatively small amount of new retail space being built this is true in Houston and across our footprint.
The supply demand balance favors the landlord and this makes up confident of our ability to perform well in key metrics same property and high growth rent increases FFO growth for years to come.
I'd like to thank all of our associates for their efforts great people great properties and a great platform equals great results.
I thank all of you for joining the call today and for your continued interest in Weingarten.
And with that operator wed be happy to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And from Citi we have Christy McElroy on line.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone.
Just trying to get a sense for the same store NOI growth trajectory in 2016 presumably ramps up through the year as occupancy moved higher again.
And I think there was 20 basis point redevelopment impact on same store NOI growth in Q4 versus your guidance of 100 basis points in 2016 overall.
Its a little hard to tell from the redevelopment schedule but may be you can help us visualize sort of how do you start out may be with less of an impact and then it grows as project start to stabilize just trying to get a sense for that.
Hi Christy this is Johnny.
Good morning I think that what we are going to see in 2016 is a little bit of choppiness due to some of the remerchandising that we have underway.
I think what we saw this quarter was impacted by that and will continue to see some of that.
Weve got some sign not commenced space that will commence over the next several months that will be annualized $7.7 million and I would expect the same property NOI to ramp up through the year start out a little bit lower and then ramp up through the year into the fourth quarter.
And then with regards to the redevelopment impact on that? It would be relatively slight its not significant.
Early on Right right.
And you are talking about a 100 basis point impact in the year overall? Yes thats right So that ramps up at well.
Yes most of that in Q3 and Q4 yes.
Okay got it.
And then Johnny you also mentioned in your opening remarks some more aggressive spends on pushing rents Im just wondering in the last year or two is there have been any change in the level of contractual rent growth that you have been able to right into the leases.
Christy it's been pretty slight there has been more things - tilting more and more towards us and I'd say tilting it's not an avalanche away.
We do have better contractual steps with the smaller tenants most of the larger tenants you are getting about the same 10% every five years or so that hasn't changed a lot but the small tenants has.
Thank you.
From SunTrust we have Ki Bin Kim on line.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
It's a follow up on the previous topic.
This quarter it seems NOI was a little volatile given some changes in other income and bad debt.
Just curious what is implicit in your 2016 guidance for those two items? Ki Bin let me give you a little bit of background or color on the whole same-store NOI issue.
On Page 26 in our supplemental towards the bottom you can see the same-store NOI disclosure and how we break out that.
During - we always as Johnny mentioned have fall out and lease up.
Anna's Linens probably this quarter was about $275 000 loss in '15 -- Q4 of '15.
We had a legal settlement of about $375 000 in Q4 of last year that didn't reoccur this year.
And then if you look at the swing in bad debt between the two quarters net recovery there was about $189 000.
And just those three items alone is like $839 000 of difference between the two which is again I'm using the denominators on Page 26 is about 95 basis points or 100 basis points of improvement that we would have seen in Q4 this year compared to Q4 of last year.
So $2.1 million would have been a little in excess of 3%.
There was a modest increase in bad debt as noted in 2016 - excuse me I think I said '15.
So I think that hopefully grinds a little bit of -- Hi Ki Bin let me add.
This is Johnny.
Let me add a little bit to that.
Number one the Anna Linens store is actually a very positive store for the company even though there is a short-term loss in revenue.
We had nine Anna's Linens six of them have been released to better tenants mostly for more rent.
Two of them were negotiating letters of intent now.
So we are making very positive progress on the Anna's Linens story.
We have another roughly $154 000 of revenue that we lost during the fourth quarter of 2015 due to remerchandising that we elected to terminate tenants in spaces that we are leasing for more rent better tenants.
So again you are correct that it is lumpy but I honestly believe that it's mostly a good story.
Yes.
Ki Bin this is Steve again.
Just to go back to your original question on guidance I mean as Johnny mentioned we are $2.5 million $3.5 million without redevelopments a 100 basis points more with redevelopments.
That will come on slowly during the first couple of quarters and then as he said come on stronger in the second half of the year.
So it is to use a word a little lumpy.
Okay.
I agree it could be a good thing.
So many of those moving out.
Just second question I think you attract some of your developing projects looks like the square footage timing and the scope change a little a bit.
Any color there? Ki Bin Drew good morning.
As I said things are going generally very well.
The Wake Forest project we actually started construction of two multi-tenant buildings one of which is already preleased the other one at which is leasing nicely.
But because we expanded the project saw that occupancy dropped.
So Hilltop is basically finished doing great.
Wake Forest is generally doing well we expanded it.
And things are going nicely in the development pipeline.
Okay.
Thank you.
From Bank of America we have Craig Smith on line.
Please go ahead.
I was wondering what was responsible the pickup in new leasing spreads in fourth quarter versus the prior two quarters.
Is that Anna's Linens or something else? Hi good morning Craig.
Johnny again.
It is generally across the board.
We have obviously some better bigger.
I would tell you that the increase in leasing spreads we are seeing nationally we are seeing in almost every location.
And generally it's just this imbalance of supply and demand.
I think that one of the things we have talked about earlier was CVS and they do have a bit of a nice increase at 8 000 Sunsets as part of that number but again there was no one project or one space that really totally dominated the number.
Is this something that can continue into 2006? Craig it is our intention to continue this obviously as long as possible but I think it can.
The imbalance that we see in supply and demand doesnt appear to be leveling out and for good space which honestly I think we mostly have good space it does seem that that imbalance is greater than it was a year ago and is increasing.
Okay.
And just maybe some thoughts on you have seven sports authority.
Have you heard about any of those and what might be the relief in strategies if any that might close down? Right.
We've had some conversations with sport authority recently.
I talked with them yesterday actually.
I do anticipate that theyll do something over the next two to three weeks perhaps file bankruptcy we're not sure.
We feel really good about our position with sports authority the level of sales that we have.
If I had to guess today we would if they reorganize which I do believe they will we would probably lose one store and I feel good that we'll be able to release that in -- it will take a little bit of time would be some downtime but we'll be fine with where we end up with that.
Three of the stores they've just renewed in the last several months.
So they have the opportunity to terminate them at that time.
So I am assuming they wouldn't be that and they're toward the bottom end of the stores that we have with them.
So I feel good that we'll be fine.
Okay.
Thank you.
From Green Street Advisors we have Jay Carlington on line.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Drew just look at the redevelopment ROI of roughly 14%.
I am wondering is any of that land in there is it impaired land that occurred during the downturn? I don't think so.
I think that's mostly on existing properties but generally speaking of course a lot of why the redevelopments are such a good returns is because we've harvested a pad and the basis is already in the shopping center.
So the returns are so strong because there is no imputed land value and that's why the incremental cost is so good.
Okay.
Maybe switching gears Steve just given the volatility in rates we've seen has that impacted how you're thinking about refinancing at all? Said differently is there any chance you could be more opportunistic about some of your maturities.
Good morning Jay.
We're always looking at the market.
Our maturity schedule in is in great shape.
We have about -- it shows about a 161 on a reported basis.
Maturities this year from a practical standpoint is probably closer to $150 million -- $130 million because of some of the JV debt that would just get rolled so that includes our some of the share the JV debt.
And given where our revolver is we barely have over $100 million currently and as we talked about the disposition program we're still looking forward in being opportunistic with regard to selling a few centers.
So there is not a need and I should mention also the new development program as Drew mentioned earlier a couple of the projects being finished up a lot of the capital there is really in '17 and '18.
Not a whole lot in the next 12 months.
So that's longwinded.
I'll basically say yeah we are.
We've never really been big proponents of pre-buy and money but I think most CFOs like to finance in this market when you have -- rates are up a little bit this morning but have been running in the last week or so at about $160 million $170 million right.
So we continue to look but right now I would tell you there is nothing on the horizon.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then Johnny just a quick one on small shop occupancy it's flat until the last couple of quarters.
Is that just a lot of returning going on or are we nearing to where you're comfortable with on your small shop lease sign? No.
I think it is some of the re-tenanting that's going on.
Most of that $154 000 I talked about is smaller tenants.
The 8 000 5 000 square feet tenants where we do believe we have more leverage and just being more aggressive.
Okay.
Thank you.
From UBS we have Jeremy Metz on line.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
John I was just wondering if you could give us an update on the transaction market today in Houston.
Are you seeing any movement in cap rates or interest in assets and are you seeing any acceleration of sales maybe ahead of things potentially getting worse out there? Hi Jeremy good morning.
It is quite interesting we have seen a few assets trade hands over the last several months and frankly the cap rates do not indicate that there is a lot of movement.
I know that a number of investors have reduced the cap rates in Houston but as far as private transactions that doesnt seem to be the case.
Beltaire big shopping outweigh in West Houston more than 20 miles from Downtown recently sold for six cap.
It has a Walmart in a cold shadow.
It's got a sports authority a Best Buy in Ross.
So if you use that as a guide and it's hard to use one property then the cap rates that we have applied to our shopping centers when one looks at our NAV would be fairly attractive.
We've also seen a property under contract hasnt closed yet below six around the high fives for a small Kroger out in the suburbs.
So we haven't seen particularly in Houston or anywhere else for that matter any reduction in prices.
Cap rates have remained fairly stable.
Quite honestly the number of transactions that we see for great properties for properties that we would be interested in buying is pretty slim and so it might be difficult to really draw a great comparison to that but so far we haven't seen a lot of movement in cap rates over the last six months.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just one bigger picture question here.
Between whether be the sports authority or the Anna's Linens has been an opportunity to recycle some of these assets or some of these weaker retailers kind of move out.
At this point this has really been viewed as an opportunity but I guess at what point does this really become a risk to leasing that you -- just too many boxes coming back across too many assets or even markets where it might just start to pressure some of the ability to push the rents we've seen in those low double digits? Jeremy I think one of the benefits of the properties we have great properties I think for a while this will continue to be a benefit.
I certainly think if we saw something like we saw in 2009 2009 just an avalanche of spaces coming back it might be an issue.
For now when you look at the office guys or you look at the drug stores for the most part it will be a controlled series of stores that would come back one two a year for our portfolio.
And generally the properties we have are very high quality.
And so I think it is certainly risk when you look at the operating metrics on a short term basis but when you look at the NAV and you look at the value that we could create over a period of time I still think it's an opportunity for us and frankly for our peer group.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
From JPMorgan we have Michael Mueller on line.
Please go ahead.
Yes hi.
Johnny I was wondering can you talk a little bit more about you mentioned the $500 000 square feet that you're probably looking to recapture.
Can you talk a little bit about rents in place what you think the mark-to-market opportunity is? And just timing of how you see this playing out over the next couple of years? If you could waive a magic one I would try to do it all immediately.
Unfortunately a lot of the space that we want to get back will be difficulty.
Obviously it's difficult to average out those.
What you think you might get what you think is going to be more difficult to get.
I would think that after capital we could be looking at 20% increase in rental and I think a really nice pick up in NAV as what we're really going to do is increase the credit profile which is difficult to really judge.
Are they all boxes or is it a mix of big juniors and some small shop? No this is a mix.
There are number of boxes that we would hope to be able to get back over the next 24 months.
It is a lot of small space.
We have gone through the portfolio in our budget process and identified these spaces.
And we are talking with these tenants trying to see if they would give us the space back early if theres something we could pay them or if there are other things we can do.
So itll take some time to get through it.
I think what I was trying to do is just make sure that the market our investors know that we are focused on this and that it could cause some choppiness in the operating metrics over the next several years.
Got it.
Okay thank you.
From Hilliard Lyons we have Carol Kemple on line.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Steve you talked about an additional $400 million in G&amp;A cost in 2016.
Will that be all in the first quarter or should we think about that being a little more evenly spreaded out? It will -- good morning Carol.
It will basically be spread out.
I would think that there will probably be the majority of that in the first half of the year.
Were quite frankly planning on going live with the system in July.
And well certainly have some cost after that.
But I would say the majority of that will be in the first half of the year.
Okay.
And I know earlier in the call you all talked about youre having some successful service tenants.
Can you talk about what areas those service tenants are in? Whether theyre still on medical or where youre seeing demand? Sure Carol.
Good morning.
Yes we have - honestly it's all over the Board.
The medical stuff continues to be a huge piece for us.
Chiropractors dentist these -- emergency rooms studio -- I mean all of it.
We have a lot of stuff in duty a lot of insurance agents kind of all over the Board.
Okay thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And from RBC Capital Markets we have Rich Moore on line.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
Query is on the Vegas sale.
Is that Rainbow Plaza and Rainbow Plaza one is that both of those that youre selling? Good morning Rich.
It's Drew.
Yes it's both of those that we sold.
Okay.
And if -- But you know the consumer would -- while we bought them separately to a shopper they would be considered one project when shopping center.
Yes.
Right.
And by the way I like the Marlon Brando voice that's pretty cool.
Yesterday my colleagues were telling me I sounded like Barry White.
So thank you.
There you go.
So do you guys have a cap rate on the sale of that pair? Yes.
Let me dig that out here.
Any other questions Rich? Yes.
So how do you guys think about Vegas? I guess going forward Ive always thought of that as sort of one of your core markets.
I mean do you guys still feel that way or is it sort of the start of may be lightening up in Vegas? We like Vegas it's a good market.
Weve toured the centers there at [Recon] [ph].
And theyre generally good.
But across all of our markets Johnny and his team are very active in asset management.
And as we can opportunistically harvest some property some gains that we have it makes sense.
So generally speaking we like Vegas.
It is the market that we intend to be in and would certainly invest if we found the right things.
But that said across all of our foot print we'll be optimistic.
Looks like the cap rate was in a low to mid 7.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And then Steve did you say you put a new term loan in place in January? Is that what I thought youre trying to say? No.
That was the first part of 2015 Rich.
Okay okay.
Got you.
Then turning to the tenants real quick do you guys see any pull back from the tenants in general? I mean you mentioned that demand is sort of tepid.
But I mean are they softening in terms of their store opening plans given the things are little bit softer in the economy at this point? Hi Rich Johnny.
I would say no.
Again it's important that we haven't seen a huge avalanche or wall of interest coming from tenants.
Most of the tenants that we have today are public most of them need to grow they want to expand they have to expand.
So we are seeing certainly that the discount ready to wear the super markets being very active and we can get a good space theyre certainly willing to go forward.
So its a little strange where the demand is relatively light but the balance of the negotiations is tipped towards us its just -- not a whole lot of space available and certainly and not a whole lot of good space available.
Okay very good got you.
And then last thing as you flip that around is there any evidence that the consumer is may be getting some benefit from the lower oil prices and is spending more do you see any evidence like that? Good morning Rich its Drew again.
We read all the same publications everybody else does and thats a hard thing to figure that it certainly seems that lower fuel price dividend hasnt gone entirely into goods and shopping centers may be a little bit to cars and other things so the consumer must be paying down debt.
But generally as Johnny said things are pretty good and we think our portfolio in Huston will withstand the energy and of course across the vast majority of our portfolio that consumer does benefit from that savings.
But as Johnny said the sales growth the retail demand is still petty moderate but the supply has just so loaded the balances in our favor.
Okay all right.
Good thank you guys.
From Capital One Securities we have Chris Lucas online.
Please go ahead.
Hi yeah good morning everyone.
Steve you had mentioned that youve got some mortgages maturing in some of your JVs I guess I was just wondering whats the outlook for those JVs? Is this is an opportunity to either consolidate or unwind those and is that something youre looking to do rather than just going into the refinance market and continuing those JVs? Good morning Chris.
I would tell you that we have been in communication with our JV partners for a while and quite frankly theyre very -- for the most part theyre very pleased with our assets and the performance and they want to continue.
I think some of it has to do with  youre finding the same difficulty that we have and you cant find additional places to invest capital.
So I would say generally speaking for example there is a couple of them this year that were just rolling the debt quite frankly in the bank market.
I would also acknowledge that theyre looking not may be not to go out 10 years but doing a 5 and 7 year kind of renewal to give them an option of another look without going full 10.
Okay.
And then I guess just an update on what your thoughts are as it relates to the development outlook.
And whether or not new supply is a risk at all over the next couple of years are we going to continue to see this very very light inventory increase? Hi Chris Drew good morning.
My view is well see the very light inventory increase.
I think like a lot of people we are focused on more infill -- somewhat more mixed use more complicated more expensive.
The projects take years to put together and much much longer than we were doing Greenfield development in the suburbs.
So even if we pedal as fast as we can on something its three or four or five years from now before the space comes online.
All the stars have to really line up well and it really works in order to justify the new construction prices in tenants sales models and our returns etcetera.
So my guess is we continue to see very modest new space actually come on line.
Great thanks.
Appreciate it.
[Operator Instructions] And from Wells Fargo we have Tammi Fique on the line.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
I guess just following up on the supply questions.
General supply being muted but are there any specific markets where youre starting to see supply pick up to a level that is all concerning? This is Drew and Ill let Johnny add on.
But I would say no.
And again weve been focused on more of the core close-in areas where there is dense population.
So Northern Florida some other places all seem fine to me.
Johnny any comments- I have not.
I haven't seen it.
The tenants tenure is so focused on things lining up that they are just not building in the Greenfields and the build it and they will come mentality.
They are focused on their ROIs et cetera.
So it really is across our footprint I think the supply will be very modest.
Okay thank you.
And then you spoke about exiting a couple of markets in the fourth quarter.
Im just curious as you look forward are there any other markets or states where you are looking to strategically exit? We've talked about it and youve seen in the road-show presentation the core states where we continue to focus.
We feel that we are 90 plus percent in those core states.
So we dont have to do anything.
But it is something we will pay extra attention to if we get compelling offers on it sender in New Mexico at some point in time over the next few years we could exit that.
As we continue to find great projects like we did last year in West side and other things but at this point its a lot about balance and match funding and capital neutral outlook that we dont see selling a lot nor buying a lot.
So it is something we will work on but slowly.
Okay thanks.
And then in terms of your expectations for cap rates spread between acquisitions and dispositions for 2016 Im wondering if you could give us some details around that.
It will vary a lot quarter to quarter but somewhere in that 1% to 1.5%.
Okay.
And then maybe one last question.
We heard from one of your peers that sales at properties around next suborder have dropped off.
I think last quarter you mentioned that you are bullish on the Texas border town.
Is there any change in sentiment there or it tells that this property is still strong? Hi Tammi Johnny.
Good question and something that we have been talking to our retailers about including stage stores.
These stores remain in a top quartile for all of these operators.
So somewhere around 78% of our tenants in the border towns are national and regional operators in these stores are some of the best ones that they have.
They have seen a decline in the growth rate.
The Peso has lost value to the Dollar.
And I think whats happening is as youre seeing less trips to Houston to Dallas and more medium size trips to McAllen and to Laredo but the sales increases have been reduced.
We are actively renewing and expanding stage who I think is one of the tenants who said the border has been difficult for them we are actively expanding them in a location on the border.
Thats how good that story is for.
So I think the proof is in the pudding there.
If we had a space come available tomorrow I could lease it if that was a box or a small space.
And I could lease it for more rent than I have it for today.
So I think we are still in really good shape in the valley.
The border crossings are actually up.
So maybe there is smaller trips going on its the sales increases that are primarily been impacted.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And we will now turn it back to Drew for final remarks.
Thanks Brandon and thanks to all of you on the call.
There are several conferences coming up and we look forward to seeing many of you there.
Thanks again for your interest.
We are around if there is any more questions.
Again thank you all very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our call for today.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.